03.07.19	03.07.19 Schiff Receives Official Responses from Google, Facebook Regarding Anti-Vaccine Misinformation Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released written responses he received from Google and Facebook regarding addressing anti-vaccine misinformation on their respective platforms. “We have put a lot of effort into curbing misinformation in our products – from better Search ranking algorithms, to improving our ability to surface authoritative content, to tougher policies against monetization of harmful or dangerous content. Under YouTube’s Advertiser-Friendly Content Guidelines, we are and have been demonetizing anti-vaccination content under our longstanding harmful or dangerous advertising policy,” wrote Karan Bhatia, Vice President of Global Public Policy and Government Affairs at Google. “Our approach…is to reduce the spread of inaccurate information about vaccines by reducing its distribution in News Feed, removing groups and pages that promote misinformation from recommendation surfaces, and providing authoritative information to people who might encounter it,” wrote Kevin Martin, Vice President of U.S. Public Policy at Facebook. The scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe. There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases, and the dissemination of unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health. Schiff recently sent letters to Google, Facebook and Amazon to express concern that the companies’ platforms are surfacing and recommending information that discourages parents from vaccinating their children, contributing to declining vaccination rates which could reverse progress made in tackling vaccine-preventable diseases. “I’m pleased that all three companies are taking this issue seriously and acknowledged their responsibility to provide quality health information to their users.” Schiff said. “The responses from Google and Facebook describe the steps they are taking to address the issue of harmful public health misinformation on their platforms. Amazon has informed me they will also be responding to my letter in the coming days. “The crucial test will be whether the steps outlined by Google and Facebook do in fact reduce the spread of anti-vaccine content on their platforms, thereby making it less likely to reach users who are simply seeking quality, fact-based health information for their children and families. “I plan to continue working with the companies on the issue of misinformation on their platforms and monitoring the effectiveness of the changes they are making because our health, and particularly the health of our children, is at stake.” Earlier this week, Rep. Schiff introduced the bipartisan Vaccines Save Lives resolution, recognizing the importance of vaccines and immunizations in the United States. The resolution sends a message of unequivocal Congressional support for vaccines and urges parents, in consultation with their health care providers, to follow scientific evidence and the consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccination for the well-being of their children and surrounding communities.
03.07.19	03.07.19 Schiff Introduces Legislation to Prevent Abuse of Presidential Pardons Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Abuse of the Pardon Prevention Act, legislation to prevent this President or any other from abusing the pardon power for their own personal benefit or to obstruct justice. The legislation would require that if the President pardons someone in connection with an investigation in which the President or one of his family members is a target, subject, or witness, the evidence against the recipient of the pardon would be provided to Congress by the Department of Justice. “The President has a broad power to confer pardons, but not when they are designed to insulate himself, his family and his associates from criminal investigation. Such an abuse of the pardon power would amount to obstruction of justice and is not countenanced by the constitution,” Schiff said. “The Abuse of the Pardon Prevention Act creates a powerful check against deploying pardons in cases involving the president or his immediate family by ensuring that any evidence gathered in such an investigation is provided to Congress. The rule of law requires that a president use the pardon power only for reasons separate from his own criminal exposure.” Background: There are unsettling indications that President Trump could use the expansive pardon power granted by the Constitution as an instrument to undermine the Special Counsel’s investigation and other investigations into his business, family or his associates. The reintroduction comes one day before the President’s former campaign manager, Paul Manafort, is scheduled to be sentenced by a federal judge in Virginia on charges brought by the Special Counsel’s Office. The New York Times reported last March that the President’s then-attorney, John Dowd, floated the possibility of a presidential pardon to attorneys for Paul Manafort, as well as former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn. Article II, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution provides that presidents "shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, except in cases of impeachment.” This legislation, if signed into law, would create a powerful disincentive for any president who seeks to use the pardon power as an instrument of obstruction in an investigation. It would grant Congress the power to conduct rigorous oversight, in a way that does not unduly burden the president’s inherent constitutional powers, and deny the President the benefit they might seek to gain through abusing the power of the pardon. The Abuse of the Pardon Prevention Act complements other proposals to prevent President Trump from interfering with the work of the Special Counsel, including the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act. The text of the bill is below: SEC 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the “Abuse of the Pardon Prevention Act”. SEC. 2. Congressional oversight relating to certain pardons. (a) Submission of information.—In the event that the President grants an individual a pardon for an offense against the United States that arises from an investigation in which the President, or a relative of the President, is a target, subject, or witness, not later than 30 days after the date of such pardon, the Attorney General shall submit to the chairmen and ranking members of the appropriate congressional committees all materials of an investigation that were obtained by a United States Attorney, another Federal prosecutor, or an investigative authority of the Federal Government, relating to the offense for which the individual is so pardoned. (b) Treatment of information.—Rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure may not be construed to prohibit the disclosure of information required by subsection (a) of this section. (c) Applicability.—Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to a pardon granted by the President on or after January 20, 2017. (d) Definitions.—In this section: (1) The term “appropriate congressional committees” means— (A) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and (B) if an investigation relates to intelligence or counterintelligence matters, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate. (2) The term “pardon” includes a commutation of sentence. (3) The term “relative” has the meaning given that term in section 3110(a) of title 5, United States Code.
03.05.19	03.05.19 Reps. Schiff, Burgess Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Recognizing the Importance of Vaccines Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Michael Burgess, MD, (R-TX) introduced the bipartisan Vaccines Save Lives Resolution, recognizing the importance of vaccines and immunizations in the United States. The resolution, if passed, will send a message of unequivocal Congressional support for vaccines and urges parents, in consultation with their health care provider, to follow scientific evidence and the consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccinations for the well-being of their children and surrounding communities. “The scientific and medical communities agree – vaccines are both safe and effective and there is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases,” said Rep. Schiff. “Vaccines have saved millions of lives worldwide and prevented suffering for millions more. The importance of vaccinating your children, especially given the recent outbreak of preventable diseases, cannot be overstated.” “Vaccines are one of the most successful products of medical innovation. Since Dr. Edward Jenner administered the first smallpox vaccine in 1796, Americans have benefited from vaccines and their ability to improve quality of life and eradicate disease,” said Rep. Burgess. “As a physician, I am grateful for their immense value and lifesaving potential. In the 21st century, Congress should be focused on investing in vaccines’ further development as safe and effective tools to protect Americans and people around the world from preventable suffering.” The Vaccines Save Lives Resolution rejects unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccines and recognizes that scientifically sound education and outreach campaigns about vaccination and immunization are fundamental for a well-informed public. The resolution is endorsed and supported by leaders in the medical community, including the American Medical Association, Adult Vaccine Access Coalition, Children’s Hospital Association, Every Child By Two, and March of Dimes. Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) will introduce companion legislation in the Senate. The full text of the resolution is below: A resolution to recognize the importance of vaccinations and immunizations in the United States. Recognizing the importance of vaccinations and immunizations in the United States. Whereas the contributions of Louis Pasteur and Edward Jenner to the discovery of the principles of vaccinology are among the most consequential health findings in history; Whereas vaccines have made it possible to eradicate smallpox, saving approximately 5 million lives annually, and for the international community to be on the brink of eradicating polio and to have saved an estimated 18 million people from paralysis over the past three decades, Whereas vaccines have dramatically reduced the spread of crippling and potentially life-threatening diseases such as diphtheria, tetanus, measles, mumps, and rubella, and vaccines have prevented the spread of commonly infectious and potentially fatal diseases such as chickenpox, shingles, influenza, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, meningococcal disease, pneumococcal disease, rotavirus, and whooping cough (pertussis); Whereas the scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe, and the dissemination of unfounded, and debunked, theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health, and scientifically sound education and outreach campaigns about vaccination and immunization are fundamental for a well-informed public; Whereas an estimated 43,000 adults and 300 children die annually from vaccine-preventable diseases or their complications in the United States, and the health and livelihood of young children, seniors, individuals with immunodeficiency disorders, and those who cannot be vaccinated, are particularly compromised by communities with low vaccination rates; Whereas substantial research has shown that vaccination is a highly cost-effective form of preventive medicine, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that between 1994 and 2013, vaccinations saved nearly $295 billion in direct costs and $1.38 trillion in total societal costs in the United States; Whereas vaccines in the United States undergo extensive safety and efficacy testing before licensure by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and are continually monitored for adverse events after health care providers administer them to patients; Whereas there are four post-marketing surveillance systems in the United States tracking adverse events after vaccination; Whereas it is estimated that vaccinations will prevent more than 21 million hospitalizations and 732,000 deaths among children born in the last 20 years, and that more than 100 million children worldwide are immunized each year and vaccines save an estimated 2.5 million children under age five annually; Whereas one in five children worldwide still lack access to common vaccines and, as a result, an estimated 1.5 million children die annually from complications of vaccine-preventable diseases such as diarrhea and pneumonia or suffer from permanently debilitating illnesses; Whereas strong investments in biomedical research to improve existing vaccines and develop many more life-saving vaccines are beneficial to all, both at home and abroad, and a robust immunization infrastructure is essential to the public health and well-being of the people of the United States by preventing and isolating outbreaks of infectious diseases at their source; Whereas encouraging high vaccination rates and promoting vaccine confidence in the United States protects our citizens from contracting vaccine-preventable diseases that are endemic in countries with low vaccination and immunization rates; Whereas the World Health Organization (WHO) recently identified vaccine hesitancy as a top health threat for 2019, and addressing the many factors that contribute to vaccine hesitancy is crucial in increasing vaccination rates and achieving herd immunity; Whereas routine and up-to-date vaccination is the most effective method available to prevent the transmission of potentially fatal infectious diseases; and Whereas the United States has been a leader in promoting vaccinations around the world through the United States Agency for International Development, CDC, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, UNICEF, WHO, and other multilateral and nongovernmental organizations: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- commends the international community, global and domestic health organizations, the private sector, school and community leaders, and faith-based organizations for their tireless work and immense contributions to bolstering our global and domestic health through vaccination; affirms vaccines and immunizations save lives and are essential to maintain the public health, and the economic and national security of the people of the United States; recognizes that the lack of vaccination can create an environment in which a public health crisis could emerge, and that there is no credible evidence demonstrating that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases in healthy children or adults; encourages a continued commitment to biomedical research to improve vaccines and to develop new vaccines against other infectious and fatal diseases; and urges everyone, in consultation with their health care provider, to follow the scientific evidence and consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccinations to protect themselves, their children, their family, and their community.
03.01.19	03.01.19 Schiff Sends Letter to Amazon CEO Regarding Anti-Vaccine Misinformation Schiff Asks Bezos to Address this Important Public Health Issue on the Platform WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to Jeff Bezos, the Chief Executive Officer of Amazon, to express concern that Amazon is surfacing and recommending products and content that discourage parents from vaccinating their children, a direct threat to public health, and reversing progress made in tackling vaccine-preventable diseases. “As the largest online marketplace in the world, Amazon is in a unique position to shape consumption,” Schiff wrote in the letter. “The algorithms which power social media platforms and Amazon's recommendations are not designed to distinguish quality information from misinformation or misleading information and, as a result, harmful anti-vaccine messages have been able to thrive and spread. The consequences are particularly troubling for public health issues.” The scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe. There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases, and the dissemination of unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health. “I am concerned by the report that Amazon accepts paid advertising that contains deliberate misinformation about vaccines; promoting these advertisements as suggested content ahead of intended search results,” Schiff wrote. “Every online platform, including Amazon, must act responsibly and ensure that they do not contribute to this growing public health catastrophe.” Last month, Schiff sent a letter to Sundar Pichai and Mark Zuckerberg, the Chief Executive Officers of Google and Facebook, respectively, to express similar concern that the companies’ platforms including YouTube, Facebook and Instagram, are surfacing and recommending information that discourages parents from vaccinating their children. Both companies confirmed they will issue a response. Pinterest proactively shared their policy on this issue, including that the platform does not allow ads related to any health misinformation. In 2015, Rep. Schiff first introduced the bipartisan Vaccines Save Lives resolution, recognizing the importance of vaccines and immunizations in the United States. The resolution sends a message of unequivocal Congressional support for vaccines and urges parents, in consultation with their health care providers, to follow scientific evidence and the consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccination for the well-being of their children and surrounding communities. The full text of the letter is below: March 1, 2019 Jeffrey Bezos Chief Executive Officer Amazon 410 Terry Avenue North Seattle, WA 98109 Dear Mr. Bezos: As more Americans use the Internet and social media platforms as their primary source of information, it is important that we explore the quality of the information that they receive, particularly on issues that directly impact the health and well-being of Americans, as well as the millions who use your site around the world. Accordingly, I am writing out of my concern that Amazon is surfacing and recommending products and content that discourage parents from vaccinating their children, a direct threat to public health, and reversing progress made in tackling vaccine-preventable diseases. The scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe. There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases, and the dissemination of unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health. In fact, the World Health Organization listed vaccine hesitancy – the reluctance or refusal to vaccinate despite the availability of vaccines – as one of the top threats to global health in 2019. In a dramatic demonstration of the dangers, Washington state declared a public health emergency due to a measles epidemic in Clark County, signaling the resurgence of a potentially fatal disease that was effectively eliminated from the United States decades ago by vaccines. There is strong evidence to suggest that at least part of the source of this trend is the degree to which medically inaccurate information about vaccines surface on the websites where many Americans get their information, among them Amazon. As the largest online marketplace in the world, Amazon is in a unique position to shape consumption. Yet the algorithms which power social media platforms and Amazon's recommendations are not designed to distinguish quality information from misinformation or misleading information and, as a result, harmful anti-vaccine messages have been able to thrive and spread. The consequences are particularly troubling for public health issues. If a concerned parent consistently sees information in their Amazon searches or recommendations that cast doubt on the safety or efficacy of vaccines, it could cause them to disregard the advice of their children’s physicians and public health experts and decline to follow the recommended vaccination schedule. Repetition of information, even if false, can often be mistaken for accuracy, and exposure to anti-vaccine content via your web service may negatively shape user attitudes towards vaccination. Additionally, even parents and guardians who seek out accurate information about vaccines could unwittingly reach pages and videos with misinformation. A report by CNN[1] found that on Amazon, suggested searches related to vaccines often led users to publications or videos providing medically and scientifically inaccurate information, including some with misleading titles that purport to be medically accurate or neutral on the topic. Finally, I am concerned by the report that Amazon accepts paid advertising that contains deliberate misinformation about vaccines; promoting these advertisements as suggested content ahead of intended search results. Every online platform, including Amazon, must act responsibly and ensure that they do not contribute to this growing public health catastrophe As a Member of Congress who is deeply concerned about declining vaccination rates around the nation, I am requesting additional information on the steps that you currently take to provide medically accurate information on vaccinations to your users, and to encourage you to consider additional steps you can take to address this growing problem. Specifically, I request that you provide answers on the following questions: Does content which provides medically inaccurate information about vaccines violate your terms of service? What actions do you currently take to address misinformation related to vaccines on your platforms? Are you considering or taking additional actions? Do you accept paid advertising from anti-vaccine activists and groups on your platforms? How much has been spent in the past year on advertising on this topic? What steps do you currently take to prevent anti-vaccine videos or information from being recommended to users, either algorithmically or as a suggested search result? I appreciate your timely response to these questions and encourage you to consider what additional steps you can take to address this growing problem. As more Americans rely on your services as their primary source of information, it is vital that you take that responsibility with the seriousness it requires, and nowhere more so than in matters of public health and children’s health. Thank you for your attention to this important topic. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress [1] https://www.cnn.com/2019/02/27/tech/amazon-anti-vaccine-books-movies/index.html
02.27.19	02.27.19 Schiff Submits Statement to Congressional Record Honoring Victims of Sumgait Pogrom Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Vice-Chair of the Congressional Armenian Caucus, submitted a statement to the Congressional Record honoring the lives of those lost in the pogrom thirty-one years ago. The full statement is below: “Madame Speaker, I rise to commemorate the 31st anniversary of the pogrom against the Armenian residents of the town of Sumgait, Azerbaijan. On February 27 1988, and for three days following, Azerbaijani mobs assaulted and killed Armenians. The violence left hundreds of Armenian civilians dead and injured, women and girls were raped, and some victims were burned alive. Thousands were forced to flee their homes, leaving behind their belonging. “The pogroms came as a direct result of years of vicious, racist anti-Armenian propaganda by Azerbaijani authorities, dehumanizing the Armenian residents of Azerbaijan and laying the groundwork for mass violence. Azerbaijani authorities made little effort to punish those responsible, instead attempting to cover up the atrocities in Sumgait to this day and denying the government role in instigating the killings. Indeed, even today, racist propaganda against Armenia and Armenians is prevalent in Azerbaijan. “The hateful and dangerous Azerbaijani attacks on Armenians is also seen in a horrific crime which occurred 15 years ago last week. At a NATO sponsored training in Budapest, an Azerbaijani Army officers named Ramil Safarov snuck into the room of an Armenian lieutenant, Gurgen Margaryan, and hacked him to death with an axe as he slept. “For this brutal and despicable crime, Safarov was sentenced to life imprisonment in Hungary. Yet after a determined campaign by Azerbaijan’s government, he was extradited to Baku in 2012 where he was greeted not as a criminal but as hero, provided back pay, and promoted in rank. There is no more dramatic illustration of Azerbaijan’s continued posture of hatred and aggression towards their Armenian neighbor than their celebration of a cold-blooded murderer. “The assault on ethnic Armenian civilians in Sumgait helped touch off what would become a direct conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan which took thousands of lives and dislocated millions more. The anniversary of Sumgait is a reminder of the consequences when aggression and hatred grow unchecked. “Madame Speaker, in two months we will mark the 104th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, an event the Turkish government, Azerbaijan’s closest ally, goes to great lengths to deny. We must not let such crimes against humanity go unrecognized, whether they occurred yesterday or 30 years ago or 100 years ago. Today, let us pause to remember the victims of the atrocities of the Sumgait pogroms. Mr. Speaker, it is our moral obligation to condemn crimes of hatred and to remember the victims, in hope that history will not be repeated.”
02.14.19	02.14.19 Chairman Schiff Statement on Trump Reportedly Declaring a National Emergency Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement: “It’s been reported that President Trump will sign bipartisan legislation passed by Congress to deal with border security, but take the extra-constitutional step of declaring a national emergency, in order to build the wall that, he repeatedly promised, Mexico would pay for. If he takes this unlawful step, the President will be claiming sweeping authority that does not exist, for the sake of addressing a crisis that doesn’t exist. If that sounds like nonsense, it’s because it is. But it’s also a direct assault on our system of checks and balances and will not survive legal scrutiny. “It would be hard to imagine a weaker case for a national emergency than this one, which the Administration’s lawyers will be called upon to defend. Trump himself ignored the so-called emergency for two years; Congress already considered and rejected the additional funding that he seeks; illegal border crossings are way down; and our Intelligence chiefs do not include the southern border as one of the most important threats facing our nation. “Last month, when Trump earlier contemplated declaring a national emergency, I requested complete copies of intelligence assessments, intelligence, and data justifying the President’s statements that terrorists were streaming through the Southern border and there was a national emergency. The Department of Homeland Security has refused to respond . Now we know why – there is no such intelligence. “Democrats support border security, but not through a wall that will not work, or repurposing desperately needed funds meant for other important federal programs. We will not stand idly by while the President abuses his power and usurps the authority of a co-equal branch of government. This naked power grab should be opposed by members of both parties, who have sworn an oath to defend the Constitution, but the resolve of my Republican colleagues has been consistently found wanting. Nevertheless, I am confident the courts will sternly rebuke this declaration, by swiftly upholding the lawsuits which are sure to challenge today’s action.”
02.14.19	02.14.19 Schiff Sends Letter to Google, Facebook Regarding Anti-Vaccine Misinformation Schiff Asks CEOs to Address this Important Public Health Issue on Respective Platforms WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), sent a letter to Sundar Pichai and Mark Zuckerberg, the Chief Executive Officers of Google and Facebook, respectively, to express concern that the company’s platforms including YouTube, Facebook and Instagram, are surfacing and recommending information that discourages parents from vaccinating their children, contributing to declining vaccination rates which could reverse progress made in tackling vaccine-preventable diseases. “As a Member of Congress who is deeply concerned about declining vaccination rates, I am requesting additional information on the steps that you currently take to provide medically accurate information on vaccinations to your users, and to encourage you to consider additional steps you can take to address this growing problem,” Schiff wrote in the letter. “I was pleased to see YouTube’s recent announcement that it will no longer recommend videos that violate its community guidelines, such as conspiracy theories or medically inaccurate videos, and encourage further action to be taken related to vaccine misinformation.” The scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe. There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases, and the dissemination of unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health. In 2015, Rep. Schiff first introduced the bipartisan Vaccines Save Lives resolution, recognizing the importance of vaccines and immunizations in the United States. The resolution sends a message of unequivocal Congressional support for vaccines and urges parents, in consultation with their health care providers, to follow scientific evidence and the consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccination for the well-being of their children and surrounding communities. The full text of the letters are below: February 14, 2019 Sundar PichaiChief Executive OfficerGoogle1600 Amphitheater ParkwayMountain View, CA 94043 Dear, Mr. Pichai: As more Americans use the Internet and social media platforms as their primary source of information, it is important that we explore the quality of the information that they receive, particularly on issues that directly impact the health and well-being of Americans, as well as the billions who use your site around the world. Accordingly, I am writing out of my concern that YouTube is surfacing and recommending messages that discourage parents from vaccinating their children, a direct threat to public health, and reversing progress made in tackling vaccine-preventable diseases. The scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe. There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases, and the dissemination of unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health. In fact, the World Health Organization listed vaccine hesitancy – the reluctance or refusal to vaccinate despite the availability of vaccines – as one of the top threats to global health in 2019. In a dramatic demonstration of the dangers, Washington state declared a public health emergency due to a measles epidemic in Clark County, signaling the resurgence of a potentially fatal disease that was effectively eliminated from the United States decades ago by vaccines. There is strong evidence to suggest that at least part of the source of this trend is the degree to which medically inaccurate information about vaccines surface on the websites where many Americans get their information, among them YouTube and Google search. As I have discussed with you in other contexts, and as you have acknowledged, the algorithms which power these services are not designed to distinguish quality information from misinformation or misleading information, and the consequences of that are particularly troubling for public health issues. If a concerned parent consistently sees information in their YouTube recommendations that casts doubt on the safety or efficacy of vaccines, it could cause them to disregard the advice of their children’s physicians and public health experts and decline to follow the recommended vaccination schedule. Repetition of information, even if false, can often be mistaken for accuracy, and exposure to anti-vaccine content via social media may negatively shape user attitudes towards vaccination. Additionally, even parents and guardians who seek out accurate information about vaccines could unwittingly reach pages and videos with misinformation. A report by the Guardian[1] found that on both Facebook and YouTube, suggested searches related to vaccines often led users to pages or groups providing medically and scientifically inaccurate information. As a Member of Congress who is deeply concerned about declining vaccination rates around the nation, I am requesting additional information on the steps that you currently take to provide medically accurate information on vaccinations to your users, and to encourage you to consider additional steps you can take to address this growing problem. I was pleased to see YouTube’s recent announcement that it will no longer recommend videos that violate its community guidelines, such as conspiracy theories or medically inaccurate videos, and encourage further action to be taken related to vaccine misinformation. Specifically, I request that you provide answers on the following questions: Does content which provides medically inaccurate information about vaccines violate your terms of service? What action(s) do you currently take to address misinformation related to vaccines on your platforms? Are you considering or taking additional actions? Do you accept paid advertising from anti-vaccine activists and groups on your platforms? How much has been spent in the past year on advertising on this topic? What steps do you currently take to prevent anti-vaccine videos or information from being recommended to users, either algorithmically or as a suggested search result? I appreciate your timely response to these questions and encourage you to consider what additional steps you can take to address this growing problem. As more Americans rely on your services as their primary source of information, it is vital that you take that responsibility with the seriousness it requires, and nowhere more so than in matters of public health and children’s health. Thank you for your attention to this important topic. Sincerely, Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress [1] https://www.theguardian.com/media/2019/feb/01/facebook-youtube-anti-vaccination-misinformation-social-media February 14, 2019 Mark ZuckerbergChairman and Chief Executive OfficerFacebook Inc.1 Hacker WayMenlo Park, CA 94025 Dear, Mr. Zuckerberg: As more Americans use the Internet and social media platforms as their primary source of information, it is important that we explore the quality of the information that they receive, particularly on issues that directly impact the health and well-being of Americans, as well as the billions who use your site around the world. Accordingly, I am writing out of my concern that Facebook and Instagram are surfacing and recommending messages that discourage parents from vaccinating their children, a direct threat to public health, and reversing progress made in tackling vaccine-preventable diseases. The scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe. There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases, and the dissemination of unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health. In fact, the World Health Organization listed vaccine hesitancy – the reluctance or refusal to vaccinate despite the availability of vaccines – as one of the top threats to global health in 2019. In a dramatic demonstration of the dangers, Washington state declared a public health emergency due to a measles epidemic in Clark County, signaling the resurgence of a potentially fatal disease that was effectively eliminated from the United States decades ago by vaccines. There is strong evidence to suggest that at least part of the source of this trend is the degree to which medically inaccurate information about vaccines surface on the websites where many Americans get their information, among them Facebook and Instagram. As I have discussed with you in other contexts, and as you have acknowledged, the algorithms which power these services are not designed to distinguish quality information from misinformation or misleading information, and the consequences of that are particularly troubling for public health issues. I acknowledge that it may not always be a simple matter to determine when information is medically accurate, nor do we ask that your platform engage in the practice of medicine, but if a concerned parent consistently sees information in their Newsfeed that casts doubt on the safety or efficacy of vaccines, it could cause them to disregard the advice of their children’s physicians and public health experts and decline to follow the recommended vaccination schedule. Repetition of information, even if false, can often be mistaken for accuracy, and exposure to anti-vaccine content via social media may negatively shape user attitudes towards vaccination. Additionally, even parents and guardians who seek out accurate information about vaccines could unwittingly reach pages and videos with misinformation. A report by the Guardian[1] found that on both Facebook and YouTube, suggested searches related to vaccines often led users to pages or groups providing medically and scientifically inaccurate information. Finally, I am concerned by the report that Facebook accepts paid advertising that contains deliberate misinformation about vaccines. As a Member of Congress who is deeply concerned about declining vaccination rates around the nation, I am requesting additional information on the steps that you currently take to provide medically accurate information on vaccinations to your users, and to encourage you to consider additional steps you can take to address this growing problem. I was pleased to see YouTube’s recent announcement that it will no longer recommend videos that violate its community guidelines, such as conspiracy theories or medically inaccurate videos, and encourage further action to be taken related to vaccine misinformation. Specifically, I request that you provide answers on the following questions: Does content which provides medically inaccurate information about vaccines violate your terms of service? What action(s) do you currently take to address misinformation related to vaccines on your platforms? Are you considering or taking additional actions? Do you accept paid advertising from anti-vaccine activists and groups on your platforms? How much has been spent in the past year on advertising on this topic? What steps do you currently take to prevent anti-vaccine videos or information from being recommended to users, either algorithmically or as a suggested search result? I appreciate your timely response to these questions and encourage you to consider what additional steps you can take to address this growing problem. As more Americans rely on your services as their primary source of information, it is vital that you take that responsibility with the seriousness it requires, and nowhere more so than in matters of public health and children’s health. Thank you for your attention to this important topic. Sincerely, Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress [1] https://www.theguardian.com/media/2019/feb/01/facebook-youtube-anti-vaccination-misinformation-social-media
02.11.19	02.11.19 Schiff Statement on Anti-Semitic Comments Made by Rep. Ilhan Omar WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), released a statement following anti-Semitic comments made by Rep. Ilhan Omar (D-MN): “I was deeply dismayed to see Rep. Ilhan Omar’s comments on Twitter yesterday, in which she echoed long-standing anti-Semitic tropes about Jews obtaining influence through money. Anti-Semitism has no place in the halls of Congress or civil society, and it’s incumbent upon all of us in leadership positions to speak respectfully and thoughtfully, even about issues as emotionally charged as those involving Israel and Palestine. “It’s never acceptable to give voice to, or repeat, anti-Semitic smears. That goes for Rep. Omar, and it also goes for Republicans who have trafficked in anti-Semitic attacks on George Soros and others. If we don’t raise the alarm when members of our own party use anti-Semitic language, we forfeit the right to criticize when members of the other party do so. I hope that Rep. Omar will reflect on her words, and listen to why they are hurtful to the Jewish community, apologize and resolve to do better. “Debate about the U.S. relationship with Israel is legitimate, and there will continue to be disagreements surrounding this issue. I would hope that Democrats and Republicans alike will affirm their support for the two-state solution, the only path towards a lasting peace that assures Israelis security and respects the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people. And above all, I would expect that we all recognize that our words have weight and power, the power to bring people together or the power to hurt our fellow Americans and deepen our divides. If we seek a lasting peace in the Middle East, as we all hope to see, we must put that dream into action in our personal conduct and statements.”
02.01.19	02.01.19 Chairman Schiff Statement on Trump Administration Withdrawal from INF Treaty Los Angeles, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, released a statement in response to the Trump Administration’s announcement that the United States with withdraw from the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty: “For many years, the Russian Federation has violated the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, an historic pact concluded by Mikhail Gorbachev and Ronald Reagan. These violations were knowing and deliberate, and call for a concerted international effort to compel Russian compliance. “However, the Administration’s announcement that the United States will suspend our adherence to the INF risks precisely the sort of nuclear arms buildup that the treaty was designed to guard against, with the potential to destabilize the strategic balance in Europe, Asia, and elsewhere. “The repudiation of the INF also follows a string of actions by this Administration that make clear its hostility to international agreements that have long helped preserve international stability and benefited the United States. While the INF Treaty has helped protect and keep the peace in Europe, and avoided an arms race between the world’s two pre-eminent nuclear powers, defense hawks in Russia and America have bridled under the treaty’s restrictions. Unilateral American withdrawal from the treaty allows Putin to expand without constraints development of a class of weapons he has coveted, and furthers a goal that National Security Advisor Bolton has advocated well before Russian violations of the treaty. “I urge the Administration to remain in compliance with the treaty and engage in intensive diplomacy with our European allies during the six-month period of suspension to press Russia to come into compliance with the treaty, and for the U.S. and Russia to recommit to preventing a new nuclear arms race.”
01.24.19	01.24.19 Schiff Statement on Venezuela WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement on Venezuela: “Nicolas Maduro’s disastrous and dictatorial rule has devastated the economy and society of Venezuela. Without hope for change through the ballot box following an election that lacked legitimacy, the people of Venezuela are voting with their feet, fleeing the nation in the millions. Recognizing the leader of the National Assembly, Juan Guaido, as the rightful leader of Venezuela, as have a number of our Latin American partners, Canada and the Organization of American States, is an appropriate step to support the democratic aspirations of the Venezuelan people. “The Administration should continue to work with other nations in the region towards a diplomatic solution to the crisis, and take every precaution to safeguard our diplomatic personnel. We must also remember that America’s support for democracy and human rights must apply universally if it is to be credible.”
01.04.19	01.04.19 Rep. Adam Schiff Sworn into 116th Congress for New Term Representing California's 28th Congressional District Washington, DC – On Thursday, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) was sworn into Congress for his tenth term, serving California's 28th Congressional District. “I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to continue to represent California’s 28th in Washington for the next two years. A great deal of work lies ahead of us, but I am motivated by the trust my constituents have placed in me to advance their priorities in our nation’s capitol.” said Schiff. “Our first task is to re-open the government and bring an end to the President’s decision to shut it down. Last night, we passed legislation to do that as our first act of the Congress.” Rep. Schiff will continue representing the 28th District in Congress, including all or parts of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada-Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood. Schiff continued, “The American people entrusted a new Majority in the House with a great responsibility to put forward a positive agenda for the nation. Along with my colleagues, I intend to advocate for legislation that puts people first by increasing incomes, and expanding affordable healthcare. I also intend to push forward local initiatives that improve the quality of life in our region, including expanding open space through the creation of the Rim of the Valley National Recreation Area, building the Earthquake Early Warning System for the west coast, reducing helicopter and airplane noise, and much more. “Finally, I will do my part to support and conduct vital oversight of the Trump Administration, and to restore Congress as a co-equal branch of government. Let’s get to work.” Prior to serving in the House of Representatives, Schiff completed a four-year term as State Senator for California's 21st State Senate District, chairing the Senate Judiciary Committee, the Senate Select Committee on Juvenile Justice and the Joint Committee on the Arts. Before serving in the State Legislature, Schiff served with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Los Angeles for six years. ###
12.11.18	12.11.18 Congressional Freedom of the Press Caucus Recognizes TIME Magazine’s 2018 Person of the Year Washington DC – Today, the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Freedom of the Press Caucus, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), released a joint statement in recognition of TIME Magazine’s 2018 Person of the Year: “At least 52 journalists have been murdered in 2018. This year TIME Magazine honors reporters who fought to preserve freedom of thought. Their courage, and ultimate sacrifice, must never be forgotten. We must continue to support Guardians around the world and our nation's First Amendment.” ###
12.07.18	12.07.18 Thirty-Four Members of Congress Urge Administration to Support Robust Funding for Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Peter DeFazio (D-OR), along with 31 Members of Congress, wrote a letter to the Office of Management and Budget Director, Mick Mulvaney, strongly urging the Trump Administration to include funding in the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget for the continued development and operation of the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System (EEW). “To follow through on the funding made by the federal government, as well as growing commitment from states and the private sector, it is critical that this program be properly funded so the West Coast will be prepared for the next catastrophic earthquake,” the Members wrote in their letter. “This technology will save lives and reduce the economic impact of an earthquake; it simply needs to be properly funded.” EEW technology, also known as ShakeAlert, is already fully operational in countries like Japan and Mexico, and is credited for saving lives during Mexico City’s earthquake in September. Such an early warning system could provide residents and first responders with advanced notice that could help save lives, avoid injuries, and avert major infrastructural damage by slowing trains to prevent derailment, stopping elevators, pausing surgeries and taking other actions in the event of a major earthquake. Rep. Schiff, who helped secure consistent and increased federal funding since Fiscal Year 2015 for a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System said, “Congress has made plain its sustained and bipartisan support for ShakeAlert, and its implementation is crucial to saving lives, infrastructure and property. We will continue to urge the Trump Administration to recognize the immense value of this system and fully support its funding so that it can be deployed widely before the ‘big one’ hits.” “In the Pacific Northwest, it is not a matter of if, but when, the next big earthquake will strike. By investing in the Earthquake Early Warning system, Congress can buy valuable seconds for Americans to seek cover or get to higher ground. Anything short of fully funding this valuable technology puts people and our communities at risk,” Rep. Derek Kilmer said. “Life-saving earthquake early warning technology exists, but is not yet fully implemented in the United States because of a lack of will—that has to change. We’re living on borrowed time,” said Rep. DeFazio, Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “In an earthquake, every second counts. We could save lives and protect critical infrastructure if we installed a robust early warning system, like ShakeAlert. It’s only a matter of time before we see a major quake off the Oregon Coast and we must be prepared for that day.” The White House eliminated funding for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system in both its Fiscal Year 2018 and 2019 budget requests. Congress has recognized the critical need for implementation of an Earthquake Early Warning System and has provided funding for its development and implementation in recent Fiscal Years. Because of sustained support on the federal level, as well as significant financial contributions from the State of California, ShakeAlert is now available to the public on a limited basis. Businesses, schools and local governments can partner with ShakeAlert to distribute the alerts for members of their organizations. With continued support from all levels of government – at both the state and federal level – individuals all along the West Coast will soon be able to receive alerts through their phones. ShakeAlert is being developed by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) in conjunction with California Institute of Technology; the University of California, Berkeley; the University of Washington; the University of Oregon; the University of Nevada, Reno; and Central Washington University. Schiff, Kilmer and DeFazio were joined by Reps. Nanette Barragán (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Susan Davis (D-CA), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Denny Heck (D-WA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), and Juan Vargas (D-CA). ###
12.06.18	12.06.18 Schiff Sends Letter to DHHS Expressing Concern Over Waived Background Checks at Teen Migrant Camp FBI Fingerprint Background Checks Have Not Been Required for Employees Caring for Nearly 2,000 Migrant Children in Texas Washington DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Secretary Alex Azar expressing deep concern that the Office of Refugee Resettlement has not required FBI fingerprint background checks for all individuals caring for migrant children at the influx care facility in Tornillo, Texas. This facility is already providing care to 1,800 children, and may grow further in coming months. “The failure to require FBI background checks for employees at these facilities who work in direct contact to children is indefensible,” Schiff wrote in the letter. “FBI fingerprint background checks are the gold standard of background checks, uncovering criminal histories which name-based checks can miss. The children receiving care at Tornillo and other ORR facilities are highly vulnerable, alone in a country they do not know, and speak little to no English in most cases. It is simply common sense and common decency to ensure that those entrusted with their care do not have disqualifying criminal histories.” Rep. Schiff requested responses from Secretary Azar to the following questions by December 18. 2018. Does the Department dispute the findings of the OIG regarding the failure to perform FBI fingerprint background checks at Tornillo? Who was responsible for that decision, and what was the basis for declining to require background checks? Recent news reports indicate that DHHS is working to retroactively perform FBI fingerprint background checks on all employees. How long will this process take and are you taking any steps in the interim to ensure the safety of children? In March 2018, the President signed into law legislation that Rep. Schiff authored that would make FBI fingerprint background checks more affordable and accessible for child-serving organizations. Full text of the letter below: December 6, 2018 Secretary Alex M. Azar II U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Azar: I am deeply concerned about a memorandum dated November 27, 2018 by the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, which found that the Office of Refugee Resettlement has not required FBI fingerprint background checks for all individuals caring for migrant children at the influx care facility in Tornillo, Texas. The Tornillo, Texas facility is already providing care to 1,800 children, and may grow further in coming months. The failure to require FBI background checks for employees at these facilities who work in direct contact to children is indefensible. FBI fingerprint background checks are the gold standard of background checks, uncovering criminal histories which name-based checks can miss. The children receiving care at Tornillo and other ORR facilities are highly vulnerable, alone in a country they do not know, and speak little to no English in most cases. It is simply common sense and common decency to ensure that those entrusted with their care do not have disqualifying criminal histories. The Administration knows well the utility and importance of FBI background checks for individuals with direct access to vulnerable children. In March of this year, President Trump signed into law the Child Protection Improvements Act, bipartisan legislation to increase access to and affordability of FBI fingerprint background checks for child-serving organizations. Unaccompanied children must be afforded the same protections from exploitation we would want for our own children. I request responses to the following questions no later than Tuesday, December 18, 2018: Does the Department dispute the findings of the OIG regarding the failure to perform FBI fingerprint background checks at Tornillo? Who was responsible for that decision, and what was the basis for declining to require background checks? Recent news reports indicate that DHHS is working to retroactively perform FBI fingerprint background checks on all employees. How long will this process take and are you taking any steps in the interim to ensure the safety of children? Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress cc: Secretary Kristjen Nielsen U.S. Department of Homeland Security 301 7th Street SW, Mail Stop 0501 Washington, DC 20528-0150
10.28.18	10.28.18 Schiff Statement on Shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement: “I join the Jewish community, my community, in expressing my horror at the mass murder at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, my condolences, and my gratitude to those who responded. We pray for the full recovery of those injured and for solace for the families of those who were lost. “America is a great and beautiful country filled with magnificent people. Many of the generations of immigrants who have come to this country and helped build it were inspired by the idea that it was a land of opportunity, for all those brave enough to make the passage, of every religion, creed and color. “That very idea of America is being challenged by those who preach hatred, who stoke division and accentuate our differences not our common humanity. We must overcome these new purveyors of hate. And we shall. “The gunman alone is responsible for murder. He alone pulls the trigger. But we, all of us, have a role in creating the atmosphere in which he operates. We can decide whether to create an America in which old hatreds are rekindled and new ones are given life. “No one sets the tone more than the President of the United States. Because no one has a bigger bully pulpit. No one’s words matter more. “The constitution contemplates that our president will endeavor to make us a more perfect union, but this president has a constitution of his own, that makes him incapable of that. It is in vain to think that this will change, that he will change. He cannot. It’s who he is. “So it falls on all the rest of us, together, to repudiate the violence and hatred, to change the tone, to make us a more perfect union, to bury our dead and to make a new beginning.” ###
10.23.18	10.23.18 Schiff and Kennedy Place Friendly Wager on Dodgers-Red Sox World Series — Sushi vs. Shellfish If Red Sox Win World Series Pennant, Sushi Dinner is on Schiff; if Dodgers Win, Shellfish Dinner is on Kennedy Washington, DC — As the Los Angeles Dodgers and Boston Red Sox prepare to face-off at Fenway Park in Boston tonight, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Joe Kennedy III (D-MA) today announced that they placed a friendly wager on the outcome of the series. The winner of the bet, along with the staff of both offices, will be treated to a seafood dinner from the loser’s state: sushi from California or shellfish from Massachusetts. Schiff represents the areas bordering Dodger Stadium, while Kennedy represents the areas surrounding Fenway Park. “I grew up not far from Fenway as a long-suffering Boston Red Sox fan, and it is a sign of how deeply devoted I am to my constituents that I will be rooting for the Dodgers. In the last Dodgers-Red Sox matchup one hundred years ago, the Red Sox won. This time, it’s going to be Dodger Blue all the way,” said Schiff. “It’s been 30 years since the Dodgers won the series, which may not seem like that long to Sox fans, but as a point of reference, it’s almost as long as Joe has been alive. All of which is to say, we’ll soon be eating lobster courtesy of the gentleman from Bean Town.” “This World Series really comes down to one simple question: which team has Mookie Betts? Luckily, it would be the one with 115 wins this year and a 12-2 record in the World Series since the turn of the century,” said Kennedy. “Unless Adam has shared some deeply classified information that I can’t access with Dave Roberts, my staff and I will be figuring out why LA insists on eating raw fish in a few weeks.” This is the second year in a row the Dodgers have made it to the World Series — last year, they lost game 7 to the Houston Astros, and they are determined to beat the Red Sox to win their first World Series Championship since 1988. The Boston Red Sox “reversed the curse” when they won baseball’s championship 2004, after 86 years without a World Series Pennant, and they went on to win in 2007 and 2013. The only time these two teams have met in the World Series was in 1916, and Boston took the title that time. ###
10.12.18	10.12.18 Schiff-Chabot Joint Statement on the Disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi Washington, D.C.– Today, U.S. Representatives Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Co-Chairs of the Freedom of the Press Caucus, released the following statement on the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi, a renowned journalist who has been a critic of the Saudi regime: “The disappearance of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi is deeply concerning, and the reports that he was murdered are outrageous. If Mr. Khashoggi is indeed dead, and all evidence points to his death inside the Saudi consulate, this will dramatically alter the US-Saudi relationship. As Co-Chairs of the Freedom of the Press Caucus, we are deeply concerned that an independent voice, one who has urged greater openness and reform, has apparently been silenced in the most brutal and abhorrent fashion. The world over, authoritarian regimes attack the freedom of the press and threaten journalists who seek to shine a light on corruption and other issues that those in power hope to keep hidden. It is therefore all the more important that the United States stand firmly for the right to freedom of expression, in the case of Saudi Arabia and around the world.” ###
09.27.18	09.27.18 Schiff Introduces See the Board Act Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) introduced the See the Board Act, a bill to authorize the Department of Health and Human Services to make grants available for entities that provide vision services for students in underserved communities to purchase portable or mobile optometry equipment and to pay for operational costs, including direct health care or service delivery costs. “Thousands of kids across the nation need glasses, but because they have never received an eye exam, they struggle through school and life, for lack of a pair of glasses that would often be free for them and their families,” said Rep. Schiff. “Grants to allow these organizations to expand their work to reach more underserved urban and rural schools would be a cost-effective intervention, helping potentially millions of students whose performance and self-confidence suffers for lack of a pair of affordable glasses.” "Over 2 million students nationwide go to school every day without the glasses they need to see the board, read a book, or do their math homework,” said Ann Hollister, President of Vision To Learn. “This legislation will support programs, like Vision To Learn, that provide eye exams and glasses to students who otherwise would not access critical vision care." Children with poor eyesight are more likely to perform poorly in school, leading them to be misdiagnosed with behavioral disorders or special education needs. While vision services for low-income families, including a free pair of glasses for children, are covered under Medicaid, many eligible students do not access these services. The See the Board Act would support the work of organizations that are bringing vision services to schools in underserved communities. These programs would still rely on the generosity and volunteerism of eyecare professionals, but nonprofits would have help with some of the substantial equipment and infrastructure costs. This legislation was co-sponsored by Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Donald M. Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Colleen Hanabusa, (HI-01), Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Norma J. Torres (CA-35), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), and Filemon Vela (TX-34). ###
09.13.18	09.13.18 Schiff, Murphy and Curbelo Request DNI Assess National Security Threats of “Deep Fakes” Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), Stephanie Murphy (D-Fla.) and Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.) sent a letter to Director of National Intelligence (DNI) Dan Coats asking the Intelligence Community (IC) to assess the national security threats posed by “deep fake” technology. Deep fakes are realistic digital forgeries of videos, images, or audio created with cutting-edge machine learning techniques. They could be used by malicious actors to falsely portray people saying or doing things that never happened. In the letter, the Members ask Coats to evaluate the threat posed by deep fakes, to identify technologies the government or private sector could use to detect or deter forgeries, and to recommend actions Congress and the IC should take to address this emerging threat. In the letter, the Members write: “By blurring the line between fact and fiction, deep fake technology could undermine public trust in recorded images and videos as objective depictions of reality… As deep fake technology becomes more advanced and more accessible, it could pose a threat to United States public discourse and national security, with broad and concerning implications for offensive active measures campaigns targeting the United States.” “Deep fakes could become a potent tool for hostile powers seeking to spread misinformation. The first step to help prepare the Intelligence Community, and the nation, to respond effectively is to understand all we can about this emerging technology and what steps we can take to protect ourselves,” said House Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Adam Schiff. “It’s my hope that the DNI will quickly work to get this information to Congress to ensure that we are able to make informed public policy decisions.” “Deep fake technology can be used by our enemies to undermine our nation’s security and democracy, which is why the Intelligence Community must provide a comprehensive report to Congress on the threat posed by deep fake technology. We need to know what countries have used it against U.S. interests, what the U.S. government is doing to address this national security threat, and what more the Intelligence Community needs to effectively counter the threat,” said Murphy, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “Deep fakes have the potential to disrupt every facet of our society and trigger dangerous international and domestic consequences,” Curbelo said. “With implications for national security, human rights, and public safety, the technological capabilities to produce this kind of propaganda targeting the United States and Americans around the world is unprecedented. As with any threat, our Intelligence Community must be prepared to combat deep fakes, be vigilant against them, and stand ready to protect our nation and the American people from enemies looking to exploit this new technology.” The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Daniel R. CoatsDirector of National IntelligenceOffice of the Director of National IntelligenceWashington, DC 20511 Dear Director Coats: We request that the Intelligence Community report to Congress and the public about the implications of new technologies that allow malicious actors to fabricate audio, video and still images. Hyper-realistic digital forgeries — popularly referred to as “deep fakes” — use sophisticated machine learning techniques to produce convincing depictions of individuals doing or saying things they never did, without their consent or knowledge. By blurring the line between fact and fiction, deep fake technology could undermine public trust in recorded images and videos as objective depictions of reality. You have repeatedly raised the alarm about disinformation campaigns in our elections and other efforts to exacerbate political and social divisions in our society to weaken our nation. We are deeply concerned that deep fake technology could soon be deployed by malicious foreign actors. Forged videos, images or audio could be used to target individuals for blackmail or for other nefarious purposes. Of greater concern for national security, they could also be used by foreign or domestic actors to spread misinformation. As deep fake technology becomes more advanced and more accessible, it could pose a threat to United States public discourse and national security, with broad and concerning implications for offensive active measures campaigns targeting the United States. Given the significant implications of these technologies and their rapid advancement, we believe that a thorough review by the Intelligence Community is appropriate, including an assessment of possible counter-measures and recommendations to Congress. Therefore, we request that you consult with the heads of the appropriate elements of the Intelligence Community to prepare a report to Congress, including an unclassified version, that includes: An assessment of how foreign governments, foreign intelligence services or foreign individuals could use deep fake technology to harm United States national security interests; A description of any confirmed or suspected use of deep fake technology by foreign governments or foreign individuals aimed at the United States that has already occurred to date; An identification of technological counter-measures that have been or could be developed and deployed by the United States Government or by the private sector to deter and detect the use of deep fakes, as well as analysis of the benefits, limitations and drawbacks, including privacy concerns, of such counter-technologies; An identification of the elements of the Intelligence Community that have, or should have, lead responsibility for monitoring the development of, use of and response to deep fake technology; Recommendations regarding whether the Intelligence Community requires additional legal authorities or financial resources to address the threat posed by deep fake technology; Recommendations to Congress regarding other actions we may take to counter the malicious use of deep fake technologies; and Any other information you believe appropriate. We would appreciate your cooperation in producing this report as soon as feasible, but no later than December 14, 2018. Thank you for your assistance. Sincerely, ###
09.06.18	09.06.18 Schiff Announces $150,000 in Department of Justice Funding Coming to Glendale’s Verdugo Regional Crime Laboratory Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that the Verdugo Regional Crime Laboratory (VRCL) in Glendale has been awarded $150,000 through the FY18 DNA Capacity Enhancement and Backlog Reduction (CEBR) Program administered by the Department of Justice (DOJ). This funding will help the lab increase capacity and more quickly process DNA evidence, including sexual assault kits. The DNA Lab serves Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank, and the surrounding communities. “The Verdugo Regional Crime Laboratory is accomplishing exactly what we hoped when it was created by improving public safety in Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank, and the surrounding communities and investigating a range of crimes including the most serious violent offenses,” Rep. Schiff said. “This grant will allow the lab to increase its capacity to process DNA samples from crime scenes, and also ensure that DNA evidence from rape kits does not go untested.” According to the Department of Justice, in order to address increased demand for DNA testing and the existing DNA backlog, the VRCL Forensic Biology Unit increased its staffing to include two trained DNA analysts in 2016. This new grant will be used to add part time laboratory support personnel to aid in sample processing. The VRCL Forensic Biology Unit will be able to increase sample capacity and reduce the number of backlogged cases by addressing bottle necks in evidence processing. In 2009, Schiff helped secure $1.5 million to build the Lab as part of the appropriations process. In 2010, Schiff secured an additional $1 million to expand and fully fund the Lab. Since securing the initial funding to help build and expand the lab, Schiff has consistently supported additional funding and grants for the program through the appropriations and grants process. ###
08.08.18	08.08.18 Congressional Freedom of the Press Caucus Calls for Immediate Release of Ukrainian Journalist Held by Russia-backed Separatist Militants in Eastern Ukraine Journalist Stanislav Aseyev Has Been Held Since June 2017 and Reportedly Has Been Denied Needed Medical Care WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Co-Chairs of the Freedom of the Press Caucus, today released the following statement: “As co-chairs of the Congressional Press Freedom Caucus, we are deeply concerned by reports that Ukrainian journalist Stanislav Aseyev continues to be held by Russia-backed separatist militants of the self-proclaimed ‘Donetsk People’s Republic’ (DNR) in eastern Ukraine since June 2017. Mr. Aseyev reported for various Ukrainian media and for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty’s local service, and was one of the few independent journalists to remain in the region under separatist control to provide objective reporting. He has been denied visitation and there have been reports that he may be charged with spying—an accusation international observers say is politically motivated because of his reporting. Mr. Aseyev reportedly began a hunger strike in late June in protest of the refusal to provide him needed medical care, and his situation is becoming dire. We call for Mr. Aseyev to be released immediately.” For more information about Mr. Aseyev’s case: June 2018: Ukrainian Blogger Held By Russia-Backed Separatists Declares Hunger Strike June 2017: Ukrainian Ex-Lawmaker Says Russia-Backed Separatists Confirm They Are Holding Blogger ###
07.26.18	07.26.18 Schiff Introduces Resolution Urging Trump Administration to Support Improved Infant Nutrition Through Breastfeeding Education and Protection Washington, D.C.– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and fourteen other members introduced a resolution in the House laying out the overwhelming scientific case for breastfeeding where possible and appropriate, and urging that all women be educated about their options. This follows recent opposition by the United States to a resolution introduced by Ecuador in the United Nations World Health Assembly supporting breastfeeding science and proper education of women. The resolution introduced this week in the House urges the Administration to support women around the world to be educated about their options and support efforts to end the inappropriate promotion of foods for infants as alternatives to breast milk. This will not only benefit the cognitive development and wellness of infants, but literally help save the lives of thousands of babies each year around the globe. “When it comes to the health of women and babies, science must come before profit,” said Schiff. “However, given the Administration’s counterproductive actions, Congress should take the opportunity during World Breastfeeding Week to make clear that Americans support the science behind breastfeeding, and care deeply about helping children around the world live longer, better lives. Putting the interests of corporations over that of women and infants is simply the wrong formula.” The Schiff resolution was co-sponsored by Representatives Pramila Jayapal (WA-07). James P. McGovern (MA-02), Debbie Wasserman-Schultz (FL-23), Nanette Diaz Barragan (CA-44), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-01), Marcy C. Kaptur (OH-09), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Debbie Insley Dingell (MI-12), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Steve I. Cohen (TN-09), Dina Titus (NV-01), and Brad J. Sherman (CA-30).
07.26.18	07.26.18 Schiff Asks HHS for Update on Implementation of HIPAA Provisions Allowing Providers to Share Health Information with Families During Certain Crisis Situations Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and other members sent a bipartisan letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar requesting HHS provide an update on the implementation of the Compassionate Communication on HIPAA provisions authorized under the 21st Century Cures Act. Health care providers have broad ability to disclose limited protected health information to caregivers making good faith efforts to care for a family member with severe mental illness, based on their professional discretion and judgement of an individual’s illness and circumstances, without violating HIPAA privacy regulations. Failure to understand and use the flexibility in HIPAA hinders treatment, harms the ability of caregivers to assist in their loved one’s treatment and sets the stage for unnecessary tragedies. In the letter, Schiff asks for an update on HHS’ status on its development of model training and educational programs intended to educate health care providers regarding the permitted use and disclosure of health information under HIPAA. In the letter, they write: “Unfortunately, many health providers either misinterpret or do not understand what HIPAA actually permits them to say. As long as misconceptions or ignorance of the rights and responsibilities associated with the privacy rule persist, HIPAA may continue to hinder necessary communication with significant implications for patient care and public safety in circumstances in which providers are legally allowed to share information.” The letter was signed by Representatives Adam B. Schiff (CA-28), John Katko (NY-24), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Gus M. Bilirakis (FL-12), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20). The full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Azar: We write to express our strong support for the Compassionate Communication on HIPAA provisions authorized under Subtitle C, Title XI, Section 11004 of the 21st Century Cures Act and to request an update on the status of implementing this provision which was enacted by Congress in 2016. HIPAA regulations allow health professionals to share information with a patient’s loved ones in emergency or dangerous situations. However, widespread misunderstandings persist and create obstacles to family support that is crucial to the proper care and treatment of persons experiencing a crisis. To enhance the quality of behavioral health and medical/surgical services, we believe it is essential that model programs and training materials be developed for health care professionals regarding permitted uses and disclosures of Protected Health Information through HIPAA. Unfortunately, many health providers either misinterpret or do not understand what HIPAA actually permits them to say. As long as misconceptions or ignorance of the rights and responsibilities associated with the privacy rule persist, HIPAA may continue to hinder necessary communication with significant implications for patient care and public safety in circumstances in which providers are legally allowed to share information. In an effort to promulgate a proper understanding, the Compassionate Communication on HIPAA provision within the 21st Century Cures Act requires HHS to develop model programs and training for health care providers to clarify when information can be shared. It is important that HHS prioritize the training of health professionals – including physicians, nurses, emergency medical personnel, care managers, and hospitals – regarding permitted HIPAA uses and disclosures. The measure also provides for training of patients and their families to understand their rights to obtain treatment information. Providers should reasonably work with families who, in good faith, seek information about a family member with serious mental illness to protect their health or safety, particularly where that individual lacks judgment to make an informed decision regarding their need for treatment, care, or supervision. Therefore, we respectfully request an update on your progress in implementing the Compassionate Communication on HIPPA provision within the 21st Century Cures Act. We appreciate your attention to this important matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely,
07.24.18	07.24.18 Schiff, Feinstein and Harris Urge FAA to Reconsider Plans to Terminate Support for Helicopter Noise Complaint System Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris (both D-Calif.) and other members of the Los Angeles delegation sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Acting Administrator Daniel Elwell urging the FAA to reconsider plans to terminate funding for the Los Angeles Automated Noise Complaint System. In the letter, Schiff, Feinstein and Harris ask the FAA to continue funding the system as well as make improvements to it in order to more accurately track helicopters across Los Angeles County. In the letter, they write: “The residents of Los Angeles deserve the continued support of the FAA in maintaining the Los Angeles Automated Noise Complaint System. Excessive helicopter noise remains a problem in the Los Angeles County, and we ask the FAA to continue working toward solutions, including by supporting and improving the noise complaint system.” The letter was signed by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala D. Harris (both D-Calif.), along with Representatives Adam B. Schiff (CA-28), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Maxine Waters (CA-43), and Ted W. Lieu (CA-33). The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Dan Elwell Acting Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Acting Administrator Elwell: We write to express our support for the continuation and improvement of the Los Angeles Automated Noise Complaint System. It is imperative that our constituents have an ability to notify helicopter operators and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) about disruptive helicopter noise in their communities. For over three years now, the Los Angeles noise complaint system has been a tool for residents of Los Angeles County to use in order to address helicopter noise. While the system has not been perfect and could use improvement, it has helped the community work with helicopter pilots and the FAA to address some of the complaints filed through the system. We understand that the FAA communicated its intention to terminate support for the noise complaint system, citing an ongoing operating cost of $30,000 per year. Given that Congress recently made an additional $1.6 billion available to the FAA, an increase of nearly 10%, the decision to terminate the noise complaint system appears to be less about its very modest expense and more about not wanting to hear complaints from the public of excessive noise. The FAA will not be permitted to ignore this persistent problem and one that affects the quality of life for so many of our constituents by turning off a method for residents to provide feedback on the problem and insist on accountability. Furthermore, we encourage the FAA to consider improvements to the noise complaint system in order to better track all helicopters and help our constituents use the system. Incorporating data from Automatic Dependent Surveillance – Broadcast (ADS-B) systems, which will be required for all helicopters by 2020, would ensure that all helicopters in Los Angeles County are reflected in the system. We also believe the noise complaint system should be made available in additional languages, including Spanish. The residents of Los Angeles deserve the continued support of the FAA in maintaining the Los Angeles Automated Noise Complaint System. Excessive helicopter noise remains a problem in the Los Angeles County, and we ask the FAA to continue working toward solutions, including by supporting and improving the noise complaint system. Sincerely,
07.05.18	07.05.18 Schiff Statement on Visit to Facility Housing Children from Migrant Families Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after touring a shelter facility in Fullerton, California that is housing children from migrant families that have been separated at the border: “These kids have everything but what they need – their parents. The staff is caring, the facilities were clean, but there is no way to make up for the trauma of a child being separated from their parent. Our top priority should be reuniting these kids with their parents as soon as possible. Of the sixteen kids in the shelter who had been separated from their parents, most had been in the facility for weeks. The parents of two of them had already been deported. HHS has identified all of the parents, but two kids had yet to speak to their parent, because the detention centers are too disorganized. “This is a completely manmade disaster. It is the result of a President who willed the separation to happen, an Attorney General who was happy to carry it out, and a GOP Congress unwilling to do anything about it. We must end this separation immediately and make sure it never happens again.” Schiff discussed his visit to the facility in a Facebook live video. ###
06.21.18	06.21.18 Schiff, 94 Colleagues Demand House Appropriations Committee Reject Family Separations in Upcoming Funding Bills In Letter, Members Also Demand Committee Block Reprogramming of Funds for Child Separation and Construction of Tent Cities Washington D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and 94 of his colleagues sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee asking the committee to prevent any funds from being used by the Trump Administration to separate kids from their families entering the United States. “The President’s June 20th Executive Order leaves many important issues unsettled, and Congress must still pass legislation ensuring we keep families together,” Schiff and other Members wrote in the letter. “We urge you to use the FY19 Appropriations process to protect families and children.” The letter requests the House Appropriations Committee include language in any relevant funding legislation to ensure that no funds are used to reimplement this cruel policy. Specifically the letter asks the committee to: Include language making clear that family separation is not an appropriate or endorsed policy, and restrict the use of funds for policies that separate families who enter the United States; and Reject any request by the Trump Administration to reprogram funds to increase capacity for children separated from their parents, including the construction of “tent cities” on military bases. “The Administration’s policy of family separation is anathema to our values as a nation,” the letter continues. “The children who suffer irrevocable harm due to separation are not a means to demonstrate anti-immigration bona fides or create a deterrent on future immigrants - they are children who deserve to be treated with decency and empathy, just as we treat our own children.” The letter was signed by Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24), Dina Titus (NV-01), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), John Garamendi (CA-03), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (GU), Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07), Jim Cooper (TN-05), Lois Frankel (FL-21), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Judy Chu (CA-27), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Gregory W. Meeks (NY-05), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-09), Peter Welch (VT), William Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), John K. Delaney (MD-06), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Bill Foster (IL-11), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Jared Polis (CO-02), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Jared Huffman (CA-02), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Darren Soto (FL-09), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP), Anthony G. Brown (MD-04), Al Green (TX-09), André Carson (IN-07), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01), Joseph P. Kennedy (MA-04), Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Denny Heck (WA-10), Gene Green (TX-29), David N. Cicilline (RI-01), A. Donald McEachin (VA-04), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Stacey E. Plaskett (VI), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), Adam Smith (WA-09), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), Tim Walz (MN-01), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Diana DeGette, (CO-01) Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Ruben J. Kihuen (NV-04), David Scott (GA-13), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Al Lawson (FL-05), Val Butler Demings (FL-10), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Charlie Crist (FL-13), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Bradley S. Schneider (IL-10), Sander Levin (MI-09), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), John Yarmuth (KY-03), William R. Keating (MA-09), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08), John Sarbanes (MD-03), Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), and Dwight Evans (PA-02). Read the full letter below: Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey: As you continue the process of writing Appropriations legislation for Fiscal Year 2019, we request that the Committee include appropriate language to make clear that Congress does not intend to provide funding or support for the cruel policy of family separation which has been carried out by the Administration. Over the past months, we have watched in horror as hundreds of families have been separated when entering the United States. There has been a significant increase in family separations since the Department of Justice adopted a “zero-tolerance policy” in May 2018, and it is likely that even more families will be separated as a result of recent actions that will make fewer immigrants eligible for asylum. Separating children, some still infants, from their parents and guardians is an inhumane policy which shocks the conscience. What limited reporting exists about the impact of these newly implemented policies is devastating. Last week, a father who was separated from his children after seeking asylum died while in custody, apparently from suicide. Reporters this week described a case in which a child was forcibly taken from a mother while breastfeeding. There are also reports that having nearly exhausted shelter space for children, the Administration is considering constructing “tent cities” on military installations. The Administration’s policy of family separation is anathema to our values as a nation. The children who suffer irrevocable harm due to separation are not a means to demonstrate anti-immigration bona fides or create a deterrent on future immigrants - they are children who deserve to be treated with decency and empathy, just as we treat our own children. Despite the President’s June 20th Executive Order, which leaves many important issues unsettled, Congress should still pass legislation ensuring we keep families together, and we urge you to use the FY19 Appropriations process to protect families and children. Accordingly we request the following: In relevant Appropriations legislation, the Committee should include language making clear that family separation is not an appropriate or endorsed policy, and restrict the use of funds for policies that separate families who enter the United States; and If any agency requests authority to reprogram existing funding to increase capacity for children separated from their parents, including the construction of “tent cities” on military bases, the Committee must reject these requests. The Administration’s policy of separating children from their parents and guardians must end, and the Congress should not be complicit in this assault on our values as a nation. The Appropriations Committee and the Congress should make it abundantly clear that the funding provided to agencies will no longer be used for this purpose. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress
06.14.18	06.14.18 Rep. Schiff Statement on Yemen “The Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates-backed military offensive on the port city of Hudaydah – Yemen’s remaining commercial and humanitarian lifeline – poses a grave risk of prolonging the conflict and deepening the world’s worst man-made humanitarian catastrophe. Relief groups and human rights monitors in Yemen have repeatedly warned that such an operation may result in vicious and protracted fighting, devastating destruction, an immense number of casualties, and terrible humanitarian suffering throughout the country. Despite these warnings, and notwithstanding deep ties with these Gulf partners, the Trump Administration has failed to exert its influence to help protect the lives of millions of innocent civilians in Yemen who may now pay the price if this military escalation continues. “Iran has played a dangerous and destructive role in backing and arming the Houthi rebels, and facilitating attacks on Saudi Arabia. But it is long past time for all parties to acknowledge that there is no military solution to the conflict, and escalation will only increase already-unimaginable suffering. And it is time for the Trump Administration to stop dithering and support, rather than undercut, the recently appointed United Nations Envoy Martin Griffiths’ efforts to secure an immediate cease-fire, protect the port, safeguard the transit of commercial goods and humanitarian supplies, and bring the parties to the negotiating table. “If an offensive by Saudi Arabia and the UAE further escalates the humanitarian crisis in Yemen, President Trump must make it clear that any U.S. military support that enables the military campaign in Yemen will be curtailed.”
06.12.18	06.12.18 Intel Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on North Korea Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “The summit between President Trump and Kim Jong Un carried the hopes of people around the world that there might be a peaceful means of achieving denuclearization of one of the world’s most dangerous regimes. An objective assessment of the result reveals an unprecedented gain by the North Korean dictator that surely exceeded the North Korean regime’s expectations, and a troubling concession by the United States. “Whether the summit will end up being a victory for the American people and world peace remains a very open question. Open lines of communication are always preferable to the possibility of military conflict, particularly nuclear war. However, the more closely one examines the negotiations to this point, the more clear it becomes that President Trump has already provided a great deal to Kim with little to show for it. “The joint communique issued by the two leaders contains only vague promises from North Korea which fall short of commitments the regime made in previous negotiations with the United States, with no agreement for even preliminary steps towards denuclearization such as admitting international inspectors, decommissioning warheads, or allowing a baseline assessment of their nuclear program. “In return, Kim was lavished with praise by President Trump as if he was a prospective investor in a Trump real estate development on North Korea’s ‘great beaches,’ not one of the world’s worst human rights violators who was responsible for the death of American citizen Otto Warmbier. Coming on the heels of Trump’s attack on one of America’s closest allies, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, the praise of a regime that has sent millions of its own citizens to the gulag is all the more jarring. “Kim’s appearance as the equal to the U.S. President amounts to a propaganda coup of massive proportions, validating the regime’s headlong pursuit of nuclear weapons and ICBMs. Finally, Kim won a dangerous concession by President Trump to halt joint military exercises on the peninsula, meaning our military forces will be less prepared and ready to respond to a potential conflict. Disturbingly, this concession was made without consultation with our South Korean ally, which was apparently taken by surprise. It is also not clear that President Trump even views this as a concession, having complained that the exercises are too “expensive.” “President Trump’s naive assertion that he could sum up the North Korean dictator in a matter of minutes, brings to mind all too painfully a like assertion made by President George W. Bush about looking into Putin’s eyes. But Trump undercut his own position that much further — and that of the United States — by acknowledging that if he is wrong about the North Korean regime ‘I don’t know that I’ll ever admit that, but I’ll find some kind of excuse.’ What further assurance could Kim possibly want that he can refuse to follow through on any promised denuclearization and count on President Trump to excuse his lack of action. “The history of negotiations with the North over its nuclear program is littered with hopeful beginnings that have subsequently come to grief – usually after Pyongyang has pocketed concessions and exploited fissures between Washington and Seoul. Despite the many red flags raised by the unilateral nature of the concessions made by the United States, we must hope that this negotiation will produce a different result and one that leads to a verifiable end to North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs.” ###
06.08.18	06.08.18 Schiff Amendments to Stop Use of Glyphosate in Los Angeles River Blocked Proposed Amendments Would Have Prohibited Army Corps of Engineers from Using Glyphosate in L.A. River Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) expressed disappointment that the House Majority blocked two amendments he proposed that would have prohibited the Los Angeles District of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from using glyphosate for vegetation management in the Los Angeles River. There is a significant body of evidence linking glyphosate exposure to health problems, and in 2015 the World Health Organization declared that it was “probably carcinogenic” for humans. California’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment has warned about the carcinogenic properties of glyphosate as well. “Over the past year, I have heard growing concerns from my constituents who live near the Los Angeles River about the Army Corps of Engineers’ use of glyphosate to manage vegetation,” said Schiff. “Given the legitimate issues raised over the health impacts of the use of this chemical, I believe the Army Corps should choose alternative approaches to manage the river and the surrounding area. I am disappointed that the Army Corps has declined to do so voluntarily, and I will continue to seek legislative avenues to compel them to find a new approach.” Rep. Schiff sent two letters to Colonel Kirk E. Gibbs of the Army Corps in October 2017 and January 2018, urging the Corps to voluntarily find alternative approaches that did not use glyphosate. In his January letter, Schiff stated that he would consider legislative remedies to protect the health of the Los Angeles community if the Army Corps did not voluntarily end the use of glyphosate in the L.A. River. After the Corps indicated they would not cease using glyphosate in response to community concerns, Schiff proposed two amendments to legislation being considered this week by the House, the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 5895) and the Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 8), to prohibit the use of glyphosate along the L.A. River. The House Rules Committee blocked both amendments from receiving a vote in the full House. ###
06.01.18	06.01.18 Schiff Statement on Recent Terror Attacks by Hamas and Humanitarian Crisis in Gaza Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement: “Over the last several weeks, we have seen a devastating new spike of violence between Israelis and Palestinians. Earlier this week, Hamas launched another round of rocket fire at Israel, striking civilian areas and endangering lives. These terrorist attacks are outrageous and unacceptable, and Israel appropriately defended itself with airstrikes against militant targets in Gaza. I support Israel's absolute right to self-defense, and condemn these terrorist attacks by Hamas. “Since it appears that a ceasefire brokered by Egypt is holding, it is time to take stock. The humanitarian situation in Gaza is dire and unsustainable, and I am concerned that it will erupt again into the same chaotic and violent protests which gripped Gaza earlier this month, in which more than fifty Palestinians were killed. Without a change of course that reenergizes the peace process, we will be doomed to this cycle of violence, reprisal and loss of life, to the terrible detriment of both Israelis and Palestinians.” ###
05.25.18	05.25.18 House Passes Schiff Amendment to Add Names of 74 Sailors to Vietnam Veterans Memorial Sailors Aboard the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans Died Serving Our Country During Vietnam War Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that the House of Representatives has passed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) instructing the Department of Defense to add the names of 74 sailors who lost their lives on the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans during the Vietnam War to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington D.C. Schiff sponsored with Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND). “The Lost 74 of the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans died serving our country during the Vietnam War, and their sacrifice should be recognized on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial alongside other fallen servicemembers,” Rep. Schiff said. “The House has taken an important step towards righting this injustice.” On June 3, 1969, the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans was struck by HMAS Melbourne, an Australian aircraft carrier in the South China Sea – 74 American sailors lost their lives. The two vessels were participating in a joint Southeast Asia Treaty Organization exercise called "Sea Spirit” at the time of the collision. Despite operating in Vietnamese waters immediately before deployment to joint exercise Sea Spirit, and a scheduled return to activities supporting the war effort after the exercise, it was determined that since the incident took place outside the geographical limit for the combat zone the sailors who lost their lives were ineligible for inclusion on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. That conclusion did not acknowledge that at the time of the incident, the U.S.S. Evans was instrumental in advancing American military objectives in Vietnam and the crew had participated in conflict just days before the collision. Rep. Schiff has pursued including the 74 names on the Memorial for several years since meeting the family of a sailor who died on the ship. In addition to offering multiple amendments to past authorization bills, Rep. Schiff has discussed the issue with successive Defense Secretaries and Secretaries of the Navy, urging them to rectify this injustice. ###
05.24.18	05.24.18 Schiff Statement on Canceled North Korea Summit Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement: “While it is regrettable that we are back to comparing the size of our nuclear arsenals, the decision to call off the summit was the necessary result of a poor negotiating strategy in which the President made it all too clear to North Korea that he needed the summit more than the North Korean dictator. This put the United States in a weak bargaining position in which the President was offering to protect Kim Jong Un, make him ‘very, very happy’ and otherwise undermine the U.S. position before the two parties even met. Hopefully, the Administration can coalesce around a better strategy and negotiations can resume in the future. Having created an increased nuclear threat from Iran with his abandonment of that deal, the last thing the United States needs is two nuclear problems at the same time.” ###
05.24.18	05.24.18 House Passes Schiff Amendment Requiring Legal Basis for Syria Strikes To Be Turned Over to Congress Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, announced that the House has passed his amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Department of Defense to submit a report to Congress detailing the legal basis for the strikes carried out by the United States against Syrian regime targets in 2017 and 2018. “By articulating a legal basis for military action, as well as laying out a strategic vision for such action, a president provides a justification for the momentous decision to use force or commit American lives to a cause, but also an understanding of the limits of those powers,” Rep. Schiff said. “The legal rationale for the President’s strikes in Syria must not be kept secret from the public. It must be provided to Congress and the American people.” In April 2017 and April 2018, President Trump ordered U.S. forces to carry out targeted strikes on Syrian regime targets without seeking approval from Congress. There was no legal basis for those strikes under any existing Authorization of Military Force (AUMF). Shortly after the 2017 and 2018 strikes, Rep. Schiff and Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) sent letters to the President requesting that the legal basis be provided to Congress. To date, President Trump has not replied to their letters, nor has the Administration provided a full legal justification for strikes under domestic and international law to the Congress or the American people. Full text of the amendment is below: SEC. 12xx. REPORT ON UNITED STATES STRIKES AGAINST SYRIA. Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate a report providing a detailed explanation of the legal basis under both domestic and international law for the strikes conducted by the United States against Syrian regime targets on April 6, 2017, and April 13, 2018, including a detailed legal analysis of relevant authorities and precedents. Such report shall be unclassified, but may include a classified annex. ###
05.23.18	05.23.18 Schiff Introduces Veterans Crisis Response Corps Act Legislation Would Establish New VetCorps Agency to Match Veterans with Service Opportunities Washington D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Veterans Crisis Response Corps Act to establish a new independent federal agency, “VetCorps,” with the mission of matching veterans with a desire and ability to serve with crisis response events, hazard mitigation, infrastructure construction and improvement, and other projects at home and abroad. “This bill will help keep our commitment to veterans by providing training, employment opportunities, and a new way to serve for millions who served our country in uniform,” said Rep. Schiff. “Many veterans possess specialized skills, ranging from medical training to logistics to specialized engineering, skills that are particularly valuable to agencies coordinating disaster response or reconstruction.” Of the 22 million veterans across the United States, approximately 4 million have left the military since September 11, 2001. While the aggregate unemployment rate for veterans has steadily declined since 2011, the unemployment rate hovers around 4.5% for those veterans who served since 2001. That statistic, however, paints only part of the picture. Over one-third of employed veterans are underemployed, working in jobs for which they are overqualified. Several federal agencies, including FEMA, already use veterans to provide “surge capacity” following natural disasters or other rapid response situations, including the hurricanes that struck Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico in 2017. USAID has similarly utilized veterans to provide disaster relief overseas during the 2015 earthquake in Nepal and the “four famines” in South Sudan, Yemen, northern Nigeria and Somalia in 2017. There are also non-profits that send teams of veterans to respond to natural disasters in the United States and abroad. This legislation would expand on these concepts by establishing VetCorps with the mission of matching veterans with a desire and ability to serve with crisis response, hazard mitigation, infrastructure, and other projects that can utilize their skillsets. The Corps would consist of veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces who have agreed to make themselves available for voluntary “deployments” of up to one year. Much like members of the National Guard, they would be subject to training requirements to be eligible for projects, receive health care and pay while activated, and would benefit from employment protections while deployed on a VetCorps project. With assistance from a coordinating council of federal agencies, the Director of the Corps would identify appropriate projects, and activate teams of members of the Corps, on a voluntary basis, to fill unmet essential needs. “There is no questioning the toughness, ingenuity, and dedication of veterans – they are a hugely valuable national resource,” continued Schiff. “VetCorps will help create new service opportunities for their benefit and the benefit of the nation.” ###
05.17.18	05.17.18 Schiff Introduces Legislation Requiring Disclosure of Executive Branch Spending at Trump-Owned Businesses Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and ten other Members of Congress introduced the Disclosing Official Spending at Presidential Businesses Act. This legislation would require that the head of each executive agency submit a report to the Director of the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) detailing any official expenses at any privately held company that is owned, either in whole or in part, by the president, or a trust controlled by the president. The Director must then publish this information on OGE’s public website within ten days. This legislation would not prohibit such expenses, but require their public disclosure. “The immense honor and responsibility of serving as President of the United States should never be exploited for profit, and this President, like no president before him, has made an art of making money off the federal government,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “Each time President Trump visits one of his hotels or golf courses, many officials travel with him – including Secret Service agents, White House staff and other federal officials – racking up expenses that directly benefit the Trump Organization. This spending must be made completely transparent so that the public can see how their tax dollars are being used to enrich the nation’s chief executive and his family.” "The Constitution is very clear: the President is not allowed to receive emoluments from the federal government under any circumstances,” said Norm Eisen, Chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. “The Disclosing Official Spending at Presidential Businesses Act is an important step in preventing constitutional violations, allowing the federal government, the public – and Congress itself – to respond appropriately if they occur." Since taking office, President Trump has spent 155 days at Trump properties, requiring White House staff, Secret Service agents, and other federal officials to travel with him and accumulate expenses at Trump-owned properties that directly benefit the First Family’s businesses. Reporters have uncovered other glaring examples of how the Presidency has become a profit generator for Trump. For example, the State Department reportedly spent more than $15,000 to book 19 rooms at a Trump property in Vancouver in February 2017. Last October, CNN found that the Secret Service had spent at least $63,700 at the President’s Mar-a-Lago resort. In early 2018, the President’s golf club in Scotland received more than $7,600 for VIP hotel stays. Schiff’s legislation would allow the public to see the full scope of federal spending at the President’s businesses. This legislation was co-sponsored by Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Henry Johnson Jr. (D-GA), James McGovern (D-MA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Bobby Rush (D-IL), and Brad Sherman (D-CA). The full text of the legislation can be found below: SECTION 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Disclosing Official Spending at Presidential Businesses Act’’. SEC. 2. DISCLOSURE OF EXPENDITURE OF FEDERAL FUNDS AT BUSINESSES OWNED BY THE PRESIDENT. (a) IN GENERAL.—The head of each Executive agency shall submit a quarterly report to the Director of the Office of Government Ethics listing each instance, during the most recently ended quarter, that the Executive agency obligated or expended Federal funds with any privately held company that is owned, either in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, including through trusts, by the President. With respect to each such instance, the report shall include— (1) the amount of the obligation or expenditure; and (2) the name of the company. (b) PUBLICATION.—Not later than 10 days after receiving a report under subsection (a), the Director shall publish the report on the Office’s public Internet website. (c) DEFINITION OF EXECUTIVE AGENCY.—In this section, the term ‘‘Executive agency’’ has the meaning given that term in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, and includes the United States Postal Service, the Postal Regulatory Commission, the White House, and the Executive Office of the President.
05.16.18	05.16.18 Schiff, Knight Request Natural Resources Committee Schedule Hearing for Bipartisan Legislation to Preserve the Rim of the Valley Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA28) and Steve Knight (R-CA25) sent a letter to House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop and Ranking Member Raul Grijalva urging the Committee to schedule a hearing on the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act (H.R. 4086). This bipartisan legislation would add more than 191,000 acres of the Rim of the Valley Corridor to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA). The Rim of the Valley stretches from the Simi Hills and Santa Susanas to the Verdugos and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. In the letter, Schiff and Knight write: “We respectfully request that the House Natural Resources Committee hold a hearing to consider H.R. 4086, the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act. This bipartisan bill enjoys broad support from local leaders and landowners throughout the Los Angeles region and would preserve open space in one of the densest metropolitan regions in the nation… Los Angeles County is a park-poor region with 51% of residents living more than half a mile to the nearest park. That’s why we must take steps to increase access. Preservation of, and access to, open space in our communities is not only good for our environment and ecosystems, but it is beneficial for the health and wellbeing of our residents.” The full text of the letter is below: Dear Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva: We respectfully request that the House Natural Resources Committee hold a hearing to consider H.R. 4086, the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act. This bipartisan bill enjoys broad support from local leaders and landowners throughout the Los Angeles region and would preserve open space in one of the densest metropolitan regions in the nation. Efforts to protect the Rim of the Valley began in the early 2000s at the request of Southern California residents. In 2008, President Bush signed a bill into law that directed the National Park Service to conduct a special resource study to determine the suitability and feasibility of designating all or a portion of the Rim of the Valley Corridor as a unit of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, and study how these areas could be properly protected and utilized by the local communities. This study began in 2010, and the National Park Service transmitted its final report to Congress in February 2016. H.R. 4086 and its accompanying map was drafted based on the recommendations from the Park Service as well as input from the local community and interested stakeholders. Its goal is to enable local landowners, local governments, and interested stakeholders to better utilize federal resources to preserve this beautiful ecosystem for generations to come, as well as improve access to nature for recreational and educational purposes. By expanding the National Recreation Area, the National Park Service will have the authority to implement capital improvements, like repairing hiking trails and maintaining facilities for public enjoyment, study wildlife and its habitats, and participate in cooperative conservation with local landowners. The Park Service will also be able to accept land donations or purchase land from willing sellers within the boundary if the Secretary deems it appropriate. The expansion will respect private property rights and existing local land use authorities. Los Angeles County is a park-poor region with 51% of residents living more than half a mile to the nearest park. That’s why we must take steps to increase access. Preservation of, and access to, open space in our communities is not only good for our environment and ecosystems, but it is beneficial for the health and wellbeing of our residents. The legislation is cosponsored by every Member in the vicinity of the Rim of the Valley whose districts are affected, including Julia Brownley, Judy Chu, Tony Cardenas, Brad Sherman, Ted Lieu, and Jimmy Gomez. We have also attached letters of support from elected officials at both the state and local levels. We, therefore, request that the House Natural Resources Committee schedule a hearing on H.R. 4086. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, ###
05.04.18	05.04.18 Rep. Schiff Announces Winners of the Congressional Art Competition Burbank, CA – Last night, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) hosted the annual 28th Congressional District Art Competition Forum and Exhibit in Van De Kamp Hall at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge. During the exhibit, attended by more than 200 students, teachers and parents, Schiff announced that Jennifer Bae’s acrylic painting “Have a Slice” won first place and will be included in the nationwide Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery, in Washington, D.C. Her artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, alongside winners from other Congressional Districts across the nation. Jennifer attends Crescenta Valley High School, lives in La Crescenta and is in the 12th grade. Additionally, Schiff announced that Abrielle Marsden’s acrylic painting “Perception” and Alejandra Santana’s photograph “Sunny Light Up” won second and third place, respectively, and their artwork will be displayed in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, DC Office and his Burbank District Office. Abrielle attends Burbank High School, lives in Burbank and is in the 11th grade, and Alejandra attends John Burroughs High School, lives in Burbank and is in the 12th grade. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Vilen Manukyan for his graphite and acrylic artwork, “Path Behind the Glory.” Vilen attends the Village Christian School, lives in Sunland and is in the 11th grade. Vilen’s artwork will be displayed in Rep. Schiff’s Hollywood District Office. Over 3,000 constituents voted in the “People’s Choice” online contest this year. “Each year, it is an honor to see young artists from our community showcase their talent,” said Schiff. “Every student involved in this competition deserves recognition, and I hope they will continue to enrich our community with their artwork. I want to congratulate this year’s winners, Jennifer, Abrielle, Alejandra and Vilen. I look forward to viewing their art this year in my offices and in the Capitol building!” This year, the judges serving on the panel to award the different prizes included Kellye Nakahara Wallett, David Warren, and Patricia Peréz. Kellye Nakahara Wallett is a well-known watercolor artist who is also known for her role as “Nurse Kellye” in the television series “M*A*S*H.” David Warren is a former member of the Board of Trustees of the Hollywood Arts Council, a nonprofit organization that promotes, nurtures and supports the arts of Hollywood. Patricia Peréz is a multi-media artist and Board Member of the Elysian Valley Arts Collective. There were 43 students representing 19 schools in the 28th Congressional District this year. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition from Congressman Schiff. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. To see a photo of Congressman Schiff with the winners and their artwork, click here. ###
05.03.18	05.03.18 On World Press Freedom Day: Schiff, Chabot Announce Resolution Highlighting Vital Need For Press Freedom Bipartisan Resolution Recognizes Dangers that Reporters Face Throughout the World, Reaffirms Freedom of Press as U.S. Government Priority Washington, D.C. – As journalists around the world continue to face persecution, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Steve Chabot (R-OH), the co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, announced they plan to introduce a resolution highlighting the importance of press freedom and condemning attacks against journalists. The bipartisan resolution recognizes the dangers that reporters face and reaffirms freedom of the press as a priority for the U.S. government. In 1993, the United Nations Proclaimed World Press Freedom Day. World Press Freedom Day serves to honor the principle of press freedom and to pay tribute to journalists around the world who have lost their lives while pursuing stories. Senators Bob Casey (D-PA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Ron Wyden (D-OR) have introduced a companion resolution in the Senate. “Each and every day, journalists put their lives on the line to report on some of the world’s most repressive regimes and war zones, and play an absolutely indispensable role in exposing corruption and abuse,” said Schiff. “According to Reporters Without Borders, 2018 is already an incredibly dangerous year for journalists, and just last week, we saw media targeted in Afghanistan when they rushed to cover a horrific bombing. In 2018, twenty-four journalists have already lost their lives and one hundred seventy-six are imprisoned, with many other citizen journalists and media assistants targeted as well. I’m proud to introduce this resolution recognizing the importance of press freedom around the world, and affirming the need for U.S. leadership to promote a free and fair press.” “Freedom of the press is vitally important to maintaining free societies and accountable governments,” said Chabot. “On this World Press Freedom Day, it is disheartening to see increasingly numerous attacks on this vital freedom throughout the world. From large authoritarian governments like Russia to small-time despots like Hun Sen in Cambodia, dictators around the world feel threatened by independent media that exposes their corruption and propaganda. If America believes that individual freedom and the rule of law are necessary for a stable and prosperous world, then we must defend press freedom when these bad actors seek to stifle the voice of those trying to uphold these values.” The resolution can be found here, or read below: Title: Recognizing threats to freedom of the press and expression around the world and reaffirming freedom of the press as a priority in efforts of the Government of the United States to promote democracy and good governance. Whereas Article 19 of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in Paris, France, on December 10, 1948, states that “[e]veryone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers”; Whereas, in 1993, the United Nations General Assembly proclaimed May 3 of each year as “World Press Freedom Day” to— (1) celebrate the fundamental principles of freedom of the press; (2) evaluate freedom of the press around the world; (3) defend against attacks on the independence of the media; and (4) pay tribute to journalists who have lost their lives in the exercise of their profession; Whereas, on December 18, 2013, the United Nations General Assembly adopted United Nations General Assembly Resolution 163 (2013) on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity, which unequivocally condemns, in both conflict and nonconflict situations, all attacks on and violence against journalists and media workers, including torture, extrajudicial killing, enforced disappearance, arbitrary detention, and intimidation and harassment; Whereas the theme for World Press Freedom Day 2018 is “Keeping Power in Check: Media, Justice and the Rule of Law”; Whereas the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act of 2009 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note; Public Law 111–166), which was passed by unanimous consent in the Senate and signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2010, expanded the annual Human Rights Reports of the Department of State to include an examination of freedom of the press; Whereas the 2017 World Press Freedom Index, published by Reporters Without Borders, warned that “media freedom has retreated wherever the authoritarian strongman model has triumphed”; Whereas Freedom House noted in the report “Freedom of the Press 2017” that— (1) global press freedom has declined to its lowest point in 13 years; and (2) only 13 percent of the global population enjoys a free press, meaning a media environment in which “coverage of political news is robust, the safety of journalists is guaranteed, state intrusion in media affairs is minimal, and the press is not subject to onerous legal or economic pressures”; Whereas, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists— (1) in 2017— (A) the 2 deadliest countries for journalists on assignment were Iraq and Syria; (B) 46 journalists were killed in cases in which the motive for the killing was confirmed to be related to reporting by those journalists; (C) 20 journalists were killed in cases in which the motive for the killing was unconfirmed; (D) there were 21 cases in which journalists were jailed for “false news”, which represented more than double the number of cases in which journalists were jailed for “false news” in 2016; and (E) the percentage of female journalists who were killed in a year was the highest on record; (2) the most dangerous subject for a journalist to report is politics, followed only then by war; and (3) as of December 1, 2017, 262 journalists worldwide were imprisoned for their work, marking the second consecutive year that the number of journalists imprisoned for their work hit a historic high; Whereas freedom of the press is a key component of democratic governance, activism in civil society, and socioeconomic development; and Whereas freedom of the press enhances public accountability, transparency, and participation in civil society and democratic governance: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) expresses concern about the threats to freedom of the press and expression around the world; (2) commends journalists and media workers around the world for their essential role in promoting government accountability, defending democratic activity, and strengthening civil society, despite threats to the safety of those journalists and media workers; (3) pays tribute to journalists who have lost their lives carrying out their work; (4) calls on governments abroad to implement United Nations General Assembly Resolution 163 (2013) on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity by thoroughly investigating and seeking to resolve outstanding cases of violence against journalists, including murders and kidnappings, while ensuring the protection of witnesses; (5) condemns all actions around the world that suppress freedom of the press; (6) reaffirms the centrality of freedom of the press to efforts of the Government of the United States to support democracy, mitigate conflict, and promote good governance domestically and around the world; and (7) calls on the President and the Secretary of State to— (A) on the basis of the protections afforded under the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, preserve and build upon the leadership of the United States on issues relating to freedom of the press; (B) improve the means by which the Government of the United States rapidly identifies, publicizes, and responds to threats against freedom of the press around the world; (C) urge foreign governments to conduct transparent investigations and adjudications of the perpetrators of attacks against journalists; and (D) highlight the issue of threats against freedom of the press— (i) in the annual Human Rights Reports of the Department of State; and (ii) throughout the year. Information on the Caucus: The Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press is a bipartisan caucus aimed at advancing press freedom around the world. The Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, chaired by Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Steve Chabot (R-OH), creates a forum to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world.
04.27.18	04.27.18 House Passes Schiff Drone Amendment to FAA Reauthorization Amendment gives FAA the Ability to Detect and Monitor Drones Entering Restricted Airspace Washington D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed an amendment introduced by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) that addresses the increase in unmanned aircrafts, or drones, entering restricted airspace such as airports or above forest fires. The amendment, which was unanimously approved by House, requires the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) program that utilizes remote detection and identification technologies to identify unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) that are not in compliance with applicable federal aviation laws and regulations. “The dramatic explosion in the number and sophistication of consumer drones has far exceeded the pace of regulation necessary to protect the public,” said Rep. Schiff. “In a complicated and crowded airspace like the one we have in Los Angeles, where drones have interfered with firefighting operations and caused issues for landing planes and helicopters, we must prioritize public safety. That is why it was so important for Congress to give the FAA and law enforcement the appropriate tools to address increased drones in restricted airspaces.” In addition to the inclusion of Rep. Schiff’s amendment, the bill also includes language requiring the FAA to study the potential health impacts of overflight noise due to the implementation of NextGen in Los Angeles County. The FAA has implemented NextGen – a shifting of air traffic control from ground-based radar and radio navigation to more precise satellite-based navigation and aircraft tracking – across the country. Los Angeles County implemented NextGen via the Southern California Metroplex in April 2017, which altered flight routes for some airports in the Los Angeles region. Last month, Rep. Schiff sent a letter to the FAA urging the agency to review the impacts of NextGen air traffic control technology on the community surrounding the Hollywood Burbank Airport. ###
04.19.18	04.19.18 Schiff, Kaine Send Letter to President Asking for Legal Basis of Syria Strikes in 2017 and 2018 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, and Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Foreign Relations Committees, sent a letter to President Trump requesting he detail the legal basis for the U.S. military strikes on April 13, 2018 against the Syrian regime's chemical weapons facilities. This letter follows up on their request in 2017 asking the President to detail the legal basis for the strike against Syria’s Shayrat airbase on April 6, 2017, to which they never received a response. Schiff and Kaine urged Trump to release his Administration’s secret memo detailing the legal justification for last year’s strikes, which has not been provided to Congress or the public, and may serve as precedent for additional unilateral military action against other nations without Congress’s approval. In their letter, Schiff and Kaine write: “The legality of military action is not a secondary consideration – it is a central question of vital importance under our Constitution and our system of checks and balances. The letter you provided Congress on April 15, 2018 under the War Powers Resolution states that you took this action under your Article II authority as Commander in Chief, similar to the limited public justification you provided in 2017. This is not sufficient information for the American public to understand what limits, if any, you and your Administration believes constrains you as the President from taking military action anywhere in the world for any purpose ‘to defend important U.S. national interests.’” The full letter is below: Dear Mr. President: One year ago, we wrote to you to request that you provide the Congress and the American people with the legal basis for the strikes you ordered on April 6, 2017 against the Shayrat airbase in Syria. To date, we have not received a reply, nor has the Administration provided a full legal justification for strikes under domestic and international law to the Congress or the American people. This issue has taken on a heightened urgency following the additional round of missile strikes you ordered on April 13, 2018 against targets associated with chemical weapons production in Syria. As we stated in our 2017 letter, we share your outrage and disgust at the horrific use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime, with support from their Iranian and Russian sponsors. However, the legality of military action is not a secondary consideration – it is a central question of vital importance under our Constitution and our system of checks and balances. The letter you provided Congress on April 15, 2018 under the War Powers Resolution states that you took this action under your Article II authority as Commander in Chief, similar to the limited public justification you provided in 2017. This is not sufficient information for the American public to understand what limits, if any, you and your Administration believes constrains you as the President from taking military action anywhere in the world for any purpose “to defend important U.S. national interests.” Accordingly, we reiterate that your Administration must provide a legal basis for both the 2017 and 2018 strikes. We know through ongoing litigation under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) by an outside group, that a memo detailing this analysis already exists and we are highly dismayed that despite our repeated requests, the Administration has refused to make it available to Congress. This lengthy, largely unclassified memo and any additional legal analysis underpinning the 2018 strikes must be provided to Congress immediately. It is unacceptable that the Administration has withheld its legal opinions, especially if these justifications become precedent for additional unilateral military action against other nations without Congress’s approval. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, ###
04.18.18	04.18.18 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Prevent Abuse of Presidential Pardons Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Abuse of the Pardon Prevention Act, legislation to prevent this President or any other from abusing the pardon power for their own personal benefit or to obstruct justice. The legislation would require that if the President pardons someone in connection with an investigation in which the President or one of his family members is a target, subject, or witness, the evidence against recipient of the pardon would be provided by the Department of Justice to Congress. “President Trump already has signaled that he is willing to use his constitutional powers in order to protect those who remain loyal to him, even if they are convicted of obstruction or perjury,” said Rep. Schiff. “By pardoning Scooter Libby last week, Trump has sent a clear and unmistakable message to potential witnesses against him or members of his family that: ‘if you have my back, I’ll have yours.’ At a time of constitutional peril, it is incumbent on the Congress to stand up for the rule of law by creating a strong disincentive to the President issuing pardons to protect himself and obstruct ongoing investigations.” Background: There are unsettling indications that President Trump could use the expansive pardon power granted by the Constitution as an instrument to undermine the Special Counsel’s investigation and other investigations into his business, family or his associates. In March, the New York Times reported that the President’s attorney, John Dowd, had floated the possibility of a presidential pardon to attorneys for Michael Flynn and Paul Manafort last year. Already, President pardoned Scooter Libby, a Bush Administration official who was convicted in 2007 of obstruction of justice and lying to the FBI. Trump has also pardoned Sheriff Joe Arpaio, a political ally convicted of contempt for discriminatory police practices. Article II, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution provides that presidents "shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, except in cases of impeachment.” This legislation, if signed into law, would create a powerful disincentive for any president who seeks to use the pardon power as an instrument of obstruction in an ongoing investigation. It would grant Congress the power to conduct rigorous oversight, in a way that does not unduly burden the president’s inherent constitutional powers. The Abuse of the Pardon Prevention Act complements other proposals to prevent President Trump from interfering with the work of the Special Counsel, including the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act. The text of the bill is below: SEC 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the “Abuse of the Pardon Prevention Act”. SEC. 2. Congressional oversight relating to certain pardons. (a) Submission of information.—In the event that the President grants an individual a pardon for an offense against the United States that arises from an investigation in which the President, or a relative of the President, is a target, subject, or witness, not later than 30 days after the date of such pardon, the Attorney General shall submit to the chairmen and ranking members of the appropriate congressional committees all materials of an investigation that were obtained by a United States Attorney, another Federal prosecutor, or an investigative authority of the Federal Government, relating to the offense for which the individual is so pardoned. (b) Treatment of information.—Rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure may not be construed to prohibit the disclosure of information required by subsection (a) of this section. (c) Applicability.—Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to a pardon granted by the President on or after January 20, 2017. (d) Definitions.—In this section: (1) The term “appropriate congressional committees” means— (A) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and (B) if an investigation relates to intelligence or counterintelligence matters, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate. (2) The term “pardon” includes a commutation of sentence. (3) The term “relative” has the meaning given that term in section 3110(a) of title 5, United States Code.
04.17.18	04.17.18 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual 2018 Student Art Competition with Online Voting for “People’s Choice” Winner Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he will host the annual Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit for the 28th District, featuring students’ artwork from the 28th Congressional District on Thursday, May 3, 2018. The Congressional Art Competition receives submissions from all across the country. The winner from each Congressional District has their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. This year, 43 students from 19 schools located in the 28th District participated in the competition. In addition, for the last several years, Rep. Schiff hosts a “People’s Choice” award, which will be decided through an online vote. To vote for the “People’s Choice,” constituents should go to Rep. Schiff’s website under Art Competition. Voting will be open Wednesday, April 18 through Friday, April 27. “Each year, I am blown away by the talent and creativity displayed in the submissions from students across the District. This year is no exception – I look forward to seeing all of the incredible artwork and welcoming young artists from our community to celebrate their accomplishments with their friends and families,” Rep. Schiff said. “I’m also excited to see which piece of art our community members choose to win the ‘People’s Choice’ pick, so don’t forget to visit my website and vote!” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide the opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. The first place winner’s artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, the piece awarded second place will be displayed in the Congressman’s Washington, D.C. Office for one year, the piece awarded third place will hang in his Burbank District Office for one year and the “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will be displayed in Rep. Schiff’s Hollywood District Office. The winners of the contest will be announced at the 28th Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit on Thursday, May 3. All student participants will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition. The exhibit will be held at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge at Van de Kamp Hall located at 1418 Descanso Drive, La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011. Parking and admission to Van de Kamp Hall are free. Exhibit viewing will begin at 5:00 pm and the Forum and Awards Presentation will take place at 7:00 pm. Light refreshments will be served. To RSVP, please contact Teresa Lamb Simpson in Rep. Schiff’s Burbank District Office at (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555.
04.06.18	04.06.18 Rep. Adam Schiff Honors 2018 Women of the Year Los Angeles, CA – On Thursday, April 5th, at a luncheon in Echo Park, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honored a group of inspiring women from communities in the 28th Congressional District – Atwater Village, Burbank, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Hollywood Hills, La Canada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Pasadena, Silver Lake, Kagel Canyon, Sunland, and West Hollywood. “Today, I met with thirteen remarkable women who have all worked tirelessly to make our communities a better place. It was an honor to recognize their outstanding work in the 28th District,” said Rep. Schiff. “These women have worked to found or support a myriad of charitable organizations, started multiple businesses and given so much of themselves to improve the common good. They are all pillars of our communities and I thank them for their invaluable service.” Below is a full list of honorees from this year: Claudette Nicole Saba Monestime (Atwater Village), Vicky Marachelian (Burbank), Isa-Kae Meksin (Echo Park), Emily Gleicher (Elysian Valley), Lori Hartwell (Glendale), Anastasia Mann (Hollywood Hills), Donna Ford (La Canada Flintridge), Kiljoo Lee Kurumada (La Crescenta), Brenda Levin (Los Feliz), Patricia Anne Kinaga (Pasadena), Nina Sorkin (Silver Lake), Kelly Erin Decker (Kagel Canyon), Medea Kalognomos (Sunland) and Ivy Bottini (West Hollywood). A Tribute to Claudette Nicole Saba Monestime – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my congressional district. Today I would like to recognize one remarkable woman, Claudette Nicole Saba Monestime of Atwater Village, a unique neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Claudette Nicole Saba Monestime is a Palestinian American who was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, where her father was stationed serving the United States Army during the Vietnam War. Nicole, her parents and two sisters moved from Germany to Anaheim, California after her father’s military service ended. She credits her amazing public school education in the Anaheim school system and the attainment of a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration from California State University, Fullerton. She moved to Atwater Village nearly twenty years ago to expand her career in marketing, and along the way met and married her husband, Rene Monestime, and they had two sons, Reece and Micah. After having a successful career as a marketing manager at Princess Cruises and Cunard Line, she started her own marketing firm and immersed herself in her children’s public school education. Ms. Monestime helped create a technology vision for Glenfeliz Boulevard School for Advanced Studies, which has resulted in the consistent use of 75 iPads and 35 laptops by students throughout all grade levels. She continues to volunteer her time in the classroom by helping teach first, second, and third grade students about the intricacies of computer programming. Nicole is the president of the Glenfeliz Boulevard School for Advanced Studies’ non-profit booster organization, Friends of Glenfeliz, which raises much needed funds to help to pay for programs that benefit the entire student body, and also participates in an ongoing community outreach campaign to ensure that local businesses play an integral role at the elementary school. Ms. Monestime serves as the president of the School Site Council, which works with the Los Angeles Unified School District to give parents perspective and feedback regarding decisions made at the district level. Nicole’s inspiration comes from the committed parents, administrators, teachers, business and non-profit leaders from the Atwater Village community who work in creative ways to make a difference. When they say, “It takes a village to raise a child,” that is most certainly true and is happening in Atwater Village. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Claudette Nicole Saba Monestime. A Tribute to Vicky Marachelian – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Vicky Marachelian of Burbank, California. Born in Beirut, Lebanon, Ms. Marachelian’s dedication to community service and passion to volunteer for humanitarian efforts stems from her childhood. When she moved to the United States with her family at a very young age during the civil war in Lebanon, Vicky realized that she had the opportunity for a better life, and to this day, she strives to give back to the community and support the less fortunate. Since 1995, Vicky has been an active member of the Armenian Relief Society (ARS), a remarkable organization with thousands of members in dozens of chapters around the world, serving the educational, social, and humanitarian needs of Armenians and non-Armenians alike. Over the years, Vicky has served in many capacities with the organization. She was elected to the ARS Burbank “Araz” Chapter as an executive member for 4 consecutive terms, served on the Regional Executive Board of the Armenian Relief Society of Western USA from 2003-2005, and was reelected in 2008 to serve as Chairperson of the Regional Executive Board. Impressively, only four months later, Vicky was elected as Chairperson of the Armenian Relief Society, Inc. Central Executive Board, the highest international executive position of the global organization, where she served for two terms. During her leadership as Chairperson, a number of projects were undertaken, including the construction of a new building for the ARS “Soseh” Kindergarten in Stepanakert, Artsakh, which was completed in September 2017. In addition to her tireless advocacy with the Armenian Relief Society, Ms. Marachelian was active at Rose and Alex Pilibos Armenian School in Los Angeles, where her children attended, helping to raise funds for the construction of a new gym and library on the campus. Currently, Ms. Marachelian continues her service to the community through the ARS Burbank “Araz” Chapter, where she presently serves as an executive member, and is instrumental in fund-raising for the chapter and doing outreach to Armenian and non-Armenian organizations. Ms. Marachelian’s impressive work has not gone unnoticed as she has been recognized with numerous awards, including the Armenian American Chamber of Commerce “Woman in Service” award in 2011 and the "Vachagan Barepasht" medal in 2015, awarded to her by Bako Sahakyan, President of the Artsakh Republic, for her service in the Artsakh Republic. Vicky has been married to Art Marachelian for 36 years, and they have two children, Chris and Raffi. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Vicky Marachelian. Below is a photo of Rep. Schiff with Vicky Marachelian at the luncheon: A Tribute to Isa-Kae Meksin – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my congressional district. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Isa-Kae Meksin of Echo Park, a unique neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Isa-Kae’s family immigrated to New York from the Ukraine where her father was a concert pianist and her mother was a homemaker. Growing up, Isa-Kae’s mother taught her to question authority and to think on her feet, guiding her towards her passion for local politics and historic preservation. While in New York, Ms. Meksin received a Bachelor’s Degree from Hunter College and soon after worked as a secretary for C.L.R. James, the visionary Afro-Trinidadian historian and journalist. It was during this time that she observed how workers, women, African-Americans and youth, were agents of change, and it was this work that led her to Los Angeles to connect with and observe the activities of the local factory workers. Isa-Kae moved to California in 1953 where she attended California State University, Los Angeles and worked towards her teaching credential. As a teacher in the 1950’s, she dedicated her time to working with students with disabilities, specifically the visually impaired, and she maintains life-long relationships with some of these past students. Ms. Meksin continued this incredible work for many years until she found a new passion: activism. In 1978, Isa-Kae worked on opposing the discriminatory Briggs Initiative which would have banned gays and lesbians, and anyone who supported Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender (LGBT) rights, from working in California public schools. As someone who fought for and supported the rights of LGBT individuals, Isa-Kae testified to the horrific outcomes of such a potentially divisive initiative and how the legislation perpetuated grossly inaccurate portrayals of homosexuals, and through her dedicated efforts and those of others, the Briggs Initiative was defeated. Isa-Kae continues her activist work by volunteering with various organizations like the Watts Gang Task Force, the American Civil Liberties Union, the Central City Action Committee, the Citizens Committee to Save Elysian Park, the Studio for Southern California History and many others. Among her many accomplishments, Ms. Meksin works with California State University Los Angeles to create opportunities for homeless youth to attend college and in 2017, she was awarded the Distinguished Educator Award from the university for her efforts. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Isa-Kae Meksin. A Tribute to Emily Gleicher – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my congressional district. Today I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Emily Gleicher of Elysian Valley, a unique neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Growing up in Queens, New York, Emily saw the need for sustainable living and gardening in major cities. She would walk the streets of New York and see empty parcels of land filled with garbage and dead weeds and she saw an opportunity to enhance urban areas with sustainable farming. When Emily moved to Los Angeles in 2012, she and her husband, Arlen Jason Wood, decided to convert their front yard into a giant raised lima bean farm where they would later sell their crops to local farmer’s markets. As with New York, Ms. Gleicher saw empty pieces of land around Los Angeles that could easily be transformed into urban sustainable farms. Emily and Jason decided to harness their passion for gardening and in 2015, they created Farm LA, a local 501(c)3 non-profit organization that is dedicated to transforming underutilized land in Los Angeles into sustainable energy projects and drought-tolerant agricultural farming. Since its inception, the goal of Farm LA has been to create food access and a cultural appreciation for sustainable living while enhancing the beauty of the city around us. Farm LA’s programming includes: urban farming, fruit shares, sidewalk gardens, educating elementary schools and summer camps on growing food also known as “kindergardening,” and selling their 9th generation lima bean seeds at local health fairs and farmer’s markets. Through her passion and dedicated service, Emily has created a Farm LA community of over 500 volunteers in the last three years as her organization continues to expand. Ms. Gleicher hopes that her work will help to provide food access in lower income residential neighborhoods while giving people a better understanding of the products they consume in an effort to address the prevalence of childhood obesity. Emily’s passion for sustainable farming has brightened our community and she continues to serve as a role model for the citizens of this district. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Emily Gleicher. A Tribute to Lori Hartwell – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Lori Hartwell of Glendale, California. A resilient survivor of chronic kidney disease (CKD), Lori has dedicated her life to the renal field and patients with chronic illness. In her lifelong struggle with CKD, which began when she was two years old, Ms. Hartwell received dialysis treatments for almost 13 years and has had four kidney transplants. Rather than capitulating to the obstacles of this debilitating disease, Ms. Hartwell chose to embrace her circumstances and motivate others like her to lead complete and productive lives. In her book Chronically Happy – Joyful Living in Spite of Chronic Illness, she narrates the challenges she overcame as well as the steps to achieving one’s dreams. After developing a comprehensive understanding of the American renal patient population as a sales specialist for HemaMetrics and sales manager for Medcomp, Ms. Hartwell became editor of the medical journal Contemporary Dialysis & Nephrology and established Hartwell Communications to consult on patient-related educational materials. In 1993, Lori founded the Renal Support Network (RSN), originally a Southern California-grassroots patient-led organization that has since expanded across the United States. The RSN endeavors to cultivate an emotional support network built on hope, knowledge, and peer connection to provide CKD patients with the tools to thrive despite their illness. In addition to her work with RSN, Ms. Hartwell gives presentations locally, nationwide and globally at national nephrology conferences and events about patient engagement, overcoming adversity, and achieving goals. She also advises elected officials on the impact of legislative policies on people with chronic illnesses, and serves on multiple councils and boards in the renal field, including the National Quality Renal Forum and the Board of Directors for Kidney Care Partners. She is former chair of the Patient Advisory Committee for the Southern California Renal Disease Council and served on the Governor’s Rehabilitation Council for the State of California. Ms. Hartwell’s impressive work has not gone unnoticed as she has been recognized with numerous awards, including the National Kidney Registry’s “Patient Advocacy Award” in 2010 and being named “Woman of the Year” in the 21st California Senate District by State Senator Jack Scott in 2005. Ms. Hartwell’s remarkable efforts on behalf of those diagnosed with kidney disease, as well as her resilience in her own battle, speak for themselves. She is a steadfast community leader with a long record of dedicated service and an inspiration to all. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Lori Hartwell. A Tribute to Anastasia Mann – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Anastasia Mann of Hollywood Hills, a unique neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Anastasia Mann founded Corniche Travel in 1987 and successfully launched a new division called Anastasia’s Africa in 2004, which specializes in customized trips to southern and eastern Africa. She later established Corniche Entertainment, which provides music and entertainment for private events around the world. Alongside the development of her own company, Anastasia has taken on several leadership roles in the travel industry, locally, state-wide, nationally and internationally. She is the founding chairman of the West Hollywood Visitors and Convention Bureau, and a founding member of the California Travel and Tourism Commission, where she served two terms as the sole representative for all travel management agencies in California and served on the Executive Committee. In addition, she is a member of the California Chamber of Commerce and spent ten years on the international board of directors of the Travel & Tourism Research Association, serving as President and Chair. Ms. Mann served as a California representative to the White House Conference on Tourism during the Clinton Administration and was a keynote speaker at both the 2003 International Conference on Peace through Tourism in Geneva, Switzerland and the 2005 IIPT African Conference in Lusaka, Zambia. In addition to her impressive achievements in the travel industry, Ms. Mann is also actively involved in the community, serving as President of the Hollywood Hills West Neighborhood Council and as a Hearing Examiner for the Los Angeles Police Department’s Board of Rights. She is a long-standing board member of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce and was involved with the Hollywood Arts Council. Anastasia and her company support several organizations, including the Fred Jordan Mission in downtown Los Angeles, Program for Torture Victims, OneLegacy Foundation and Disabled American Veterans. Ms. Mann’s noble deeds have not been overlooked as she has received numerous commendations by the Los Angeles City Council, Los Angeles Mayor, the Governor of California and the United States Senate for philanthropy and business achievements. She also received the Woman of Achievement Award from the Century City Chamber of Commerce in 2006, the prestigious Diamond Award from the Southern California chapter of the American Society of Travel Agents in 2017 and was the first recipient of the Anastasia K. Mann Leadership Award from the Travel and Tourism Marketing Association. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Anastasia Mann. A Tribute to Donna Ford – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Donna Ford of La Cañada Flintridge, California. A civil litigator for several years in New York and Pennsylvania, Ms. Ford relocated to La Cañada Flintridge with her family in 2005. Since moving to California, she has been an active member of the local community, serving as a dedicated volunteer and board member of several non-profit organizations. Believing that all children have tremendous potential regardless of their background or circumstances, Donna is a passionate advocate for young people and is committed to enriching the lives of children and adolescents. To that end, for twelve years, she has served on the board of directors of Hillsides, an organization dedicated to fostering a stable, healthy environment for at-risk children and their families by providing a range of innovative services, including residential treatment, individualized education, counseling and adoption assistance. Ms. Ford currently serves as chair of the Hillsides Board of Directors, co-chaired Hillsides’ annual gala in 2011, and has served on several committees over the years. In addition to her work with Hillsides, Donna is a longtime volunteer of the Cottage Guild at Rosemary Children’s Services in Pasadena, which provides education, therapeutic support and permanency planning to children and adolescents, and residential housing at Rosemary Cottage for young girls between 13 and 18 years of age. Donna has continued her commendable work with children by mentoring African American girls at John Muir High School in Pasadena and serving as a board member of the Institute for Educational Advancement, a Pasadena organization that assists gifted children in reaching their full potential, for a decade. In addition, she volunteers for the University of Southern California’s Medical Faculty Family and Friends, which raises scholarship funds for medical students, and has served on the diversity committee for the Pasadena Playhouse. Donna is married to Dr. Henri R. Ford and they have two children. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Donna Ford. A Tribute to Kiljoo Lee Kurumada – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Kiljoo Lee Kurumada of La Crescenta, California. Kiljoo was born in China and raised in South Korea. In 1967, she graduated from the Seoul National University College of Music and in 1969, she moved to the United States. In 1983, Ms. Kurumada co-founded the Korean Resource Center (KRC), an extraordinary non-profit organization, whose goal is to empower immigrant, low-income, Asian American, Pacific Islander, and minority communities in Southern California. By using a holistic approach, this distinguished organization endeavors to support these communities by incorporating culture, services, education, coalition-building and organizing toward improving their lives. Ms. Kurumada has taken on a prominent leadership role in the Korean-American community. She served as KRC board chair for more than two decades, and also served as founding board chair of the National Korean American Service and Education Consortium (NAKASEC), a grassroots organization that promotes the active and organized participation of Korean and Asian Americans to achieve social and economic justice. During her long tenure at the Korean Resource Center, where she currently volunteers two days a week helping low-income families and seniors with general inquiries, Ms. Kurumada and her colleagues have championed numerous causes, including access to health insurance, affordable housing, voter registration, senior advocacy, youth education and immigration reform. Kiljoo has lived in La Crescenta for over four decades. She is married to Stephen Kurumada, and they have two children, Jennifer and Michael, and four grandchildren. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Kiljoo Lee Kurumada. A Tribute to Brenda Levin – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise to honor Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Brenda Levin of Los Feliz, a unique neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Born in New Jersey, Brenda Levin lived on the East Coast until she was 30 and never expected to leave. After studying graphic design at Carnegie Mellon and earning her undergraduate degree at New York University, she worked for a few years before returning to school to earn a Master of Architecture degree from Harvard University’s Graduate School of Design in 1976. There she met her future husband, David Abel, who was determined to go west and convinced Brenda there would be more opportunities for women in male-dominated fields such as architecture. Her first job in California was working with prominent residential architect John Lautner on his design of a Palm Springs house for entertainer Bob Hope. From that day forward, Ms. Levin has touched the historic and cultural spirit and complexity of Los Angeles, significantly shaping the city skyline as we know it. For over 20 years her architecture and urban planning firm, Levin & Associates Architects, has pioneered, in collaboration with innovative developers, the process of historic preservation by the polishing the riches of the city with a new sheen, and her success in this effort has helped to energize the preservation movement in Los Angeles. Among the landmarks she has helped to preserve and revitalize are Grand Central and Chapman markets, the Oviatt, Fine Arts and Bradbury Buildings, the Wiltern Theater and Los Angeles City Hall. In the revitalization/preservation process are the Griffith Observatory, the Frank Lloyd Wright-designed buildings at Barnsdall Art Park and the Japanese American National Museum’s National Center for the Preservation of Democracy, among others. In the spring of 2000, the Boone Gallery designed by Brenda opened at The Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens in San Marino and Art, Design & Architecture Museum at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Ms. Levin’s housing projects include the nationally-recognized Downtown Women’s Center for mentally-ill, homeless women in Los Angeles and the Adams Congress affordable apartments in south Los Angeles. Ms. Levin’s exceptional work has been recognized with numerous awards. She is a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects and the AIA/LA selected her as recipient of the 2010 Gold Medal for her contributions in the preservation and revitalization movement in Los Angeles. In addition, in 2014, she received the Rose Award from the Los Angeles Parks Foundation, and in 2017, Brenda was the recipient of the Los Angeles Architectural Angel Award from Project Restore. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Brenda Levin. A Tribute to Patricia Anne Kinaga – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise to honor Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Patricia Anne Kinaga, of Pasadena, California. A third generation Japanese American, Patricia Anne Kinaga was born and raised in Los Angeles County. Her parents, Rose and Thomas Kinaga, met when they were interned during World War II. After the war, her parents moved the family to Palos Verdes Estates, where she experienced discrimination, and it was this negative childhood experience that set Patricia on a life-long path to advocate for the lives of Asian Pacific Islanders everywhere. Patricia received a B.A. cum laude in urban anthropology at University of California Los Angeles and obtained a Master in City Planning at the University of California Berkeley. Upon graduating from UC Berkeley she secured a position with the State of California Department of Housing and Community Development in Sacramento, where she was selected to participate in a White House sponsored program in the Sierra Nevadas to improve housing and economic conditions for the rural impoverished in that region. She graduated from Georgetown Law in 1984 and moved back to Los Angeles to begin her legal career at the Los Angeles City Attorney’s Office and in this position, she served as a prosecutor specializing in domestic violence and child abuse cases and as a civil trial attorney in the Employee Relations Section. After working as a partner in serval prestigious law firms including her own, Ms. Kinaga joined LTL Attorneys LLP as a partner. A community leader for well over thirty years, Patricia served on the board of directors of Planned Parenthood, Los Angeles, is a founding member of the Los Angeles chapter of Asian Pacific Islanders for Choice, Co-Founder of The Center for Asian Pacific American Women, and the Chair and Co-Founder of Asian and Pacific Islanders with Disabilities of California. She is a former member of the President’s Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities, an alumni of the Japanese Leadership Delegation, past president of the Japanese American Bar Association, and is an appointed member of the American Bar Association Commission on Disability Rights. Ms. Kinaga has received numerous awards, including from Asian Americans Advancing Justice, the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, the State Assembly and Senate Women in Business Award, and the prestigious Peter E. Haas Public Service Award from UC Berkeley. In addition, Patricia is also an award winning writer/producer who received a Los Angeles Area Emmy Awards nomination for the film “About Love” on domestic violence. Other major works include a documentary on the 442 Regimental Combat Team, which has been distributed to schools by the History Channel. Patricia, her husband Peter Wong and their two children, Brandon and Emily live in Pasadena California. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Patricia Anne Kinaga. A Tribute to Nina Sorkin – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Nina Sorkin of Silver Lake, a unique neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Nina’s parents immigrated from Mexico, so Nina is a proud first generation Californian. She was raised in the San Fernando Valley, until she moved to the Los Angeles neighborhood of Silver Lake with her beloved husband Al Sorkin 51 years ago. A diehard Bruin, Ms. Sorkin received both her bachelor’s degree in Sociology and her master’s degree in Social Welfare from the University of California Los Angeles. With over 40 years of service in both the public and non-profit sectors, Nina has an impressive record of giving back to the community, supporting a diverse range of causes that demonstrate her passion for helping women, children, and the homeless. A steadfast women’s advocate, Ms. Sorkin was appointed to the Los Angeles City Commission for the Status of Women by then-Mayor Bradley, where she served for a decade and was instrumental in developing a city campaign to bring awareness about women and AIDS. As a breast cancer survivor, Nina has been involved with the American Cancer Society Relay for Life for the past 15 years, chaired the Relay For Life of Pasadena, and has been volunteering for the Relay for Life of Griffith Park Communities and Hollywood since its inception over a decade ago; currently she serves as the Luminaria Chair. During her seventeen-year tenure on the Los Angeles County Commission for Children and Families, Ms. Sorkin established a Healthy Nutrition program for children in foster care and was a member of the Child Court Committee to improve child visitation. Reinforcing her commitment to enriching the lives of children, she has been reading to three and four year olds at the Bellevue Recreation Center for the last five years, serves on the Bellevue Park Advisory Board, and championed the importance of language development in small children by her involvement with the Children Planning Council and First 5 LA. Ms. Sorkin is a member of the Griffith Park Lions Club, which administers eye examinations and provides free eye glasses to Ribet Academy students and four elementary schools in the Atwater Village area. In addition, Nina volunteers with the Hollywood SDA Church Homeless Program, is a member of the Griffith Park Adult Community Center Spring Faire planning committee, and is a facilitator for a grief support group. Married to the late Al Sorkin for 47 years, she has one son, Stephen and four grandchildren. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Nina Sorkin. A Tribute to Kelly Erin Decker – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Kelly Erin Decker of Kagel Canyon, a unique neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. After graduating from Princeton University with Bachelors of Arts degrees in Politics and in Visual Arts and Art History, Kelly pursued her love for the arts as a regional theater performer on the East Coast. With several years of theater experience under her belt, Kelly took a chance on herself for a future in film and television and embarked on a cross country journey that brought her to Los Angeles, where she enrolled at the Playhouse West School and Repertory Theater in North Hollywood. Ms. Decker has appeared in many stage performances, short films and movies, such as the Ghost of Christmas Past at the Sierra Madre Playhouse and as Michael Madsen’s girlfriend in the movie Devil’s Domain. In 2009, Ms. Decker and her husband, Jeffrey Leeson, became Kagel Canyon residents and quickly became involved in their community by joining the Kagel Canyon Civic Association. For the last several years, Kelly has served on the Kagel Canyon Civic Association Board, first as Vice President and since 2015 as its President. Her chief mission is to expand community involvement in the association and community engagement in issues affecting the foothills area at large. She works closely with local, county, state and federal offices to advance the concerns of Kagel Canyon residents. Kelly is an ardent preservationist of the last remaining rural and equestrian communities in Los Angeles and serves on the board of Save Angeles Forest for Everyone. A compassionate advocate for her Kagel Canyon community, Kelly’s dedication to the residents is nothing short of extraordinary. As editor of The Hot Sheet, the Kagel Canyon monthly newsletter that is hand delivered to every home, she keeps residents informed about local issues. During the December 2017 Creek Fire, she quickly responded by serving as Kagel Canyon’s unofficial community information officer, working day and night to provide residents with up-to-date information on the status of evacuations, organizations to reach out to for help and generally assisting with whatever was needed at the time. Ms. Decker’s efforts did not cease after the fire was extinguished; and to this day, she continues to support and be an exceptional resource for all the residents of Kagel Canyon, but in particular for the sixteen Kagel Canyon families who lost their homes in the fire by organizing numerous fundraisers, coordinating efforts to collect food and clothing donations and providing resources to assist with the rebuilding process. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Kelly Erin Decker. A Tribute to Medea Kalognomos – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Medea Kalognomos of Sunland, California. In 1962, Medea moved to the United States from Iran to pursue her education. After graduating from Belmont High School in Los Angeles, she attended North Carolina State University and Point Loma Nazarene University in California, receiving a Bachelor’s Degree in French and a Master’s Degree in Pupil Personnel Services. Medea fulfilled her lifelong dream of becoming a school teacher when she was hired by the Glendale Unified School District, where she worked for a quarter of a century. She taught French and English as a Second Language (ESL) at Eleanor J. Toll Middle School, and then became an ESL Program Specialist at Eleanor J. Toll Middle School and Woodrow Wilson Middle School, and was also a Counselor at Glendale High School, where she patiently and compassionately advised students. She also guided many immigrant students and made a lasting impact in their lives, by instilling in them the importance of civic involvement and education. An avid student advocate and civic leader, Ms. Kalognomos has dedicated countless hours to the community, and has served in over sixteen community and academic organizations in the past thirty-five years. Currently, she is a member of the Armenian Educational Foundation, the Armenian National Committee of America - Western Region Education Committee, and co-president of the Committee for Armenian Students in Public Schools, which is an organization that has been a positive influence and inspiration to students in public schools. Most recently, Medea served as chairperson of the Committee for Armenian Students in Public Schools Leadership Workshop, where Glendale Unified School District and Los Angeles Unified School District high school juniors with a 3.5 and higher grade point average, gathered to learn valuable leadership skills and the importance of volunteering in the community. In addition to her tireless service in the local communities, Medea has volunteered at schools, orphanages and hospitals in Armenia for many years. Medea’s extraordinary work has not gone unnoticed as she has been recognized with numerous awards, including the Ruby Award from the Soroptimist International of the Verdugos. Ms. Kalognomos has been married to Sergeant Major Alexander Kalognomos for 50 years, and they have two children, Alex and Helen. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Medea Kalognomos. Below is a photo of Rep. Schiff and Medea Kalognomos at the luncheon: A Tribute to Ivy Bottini – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Ivy Bottini, of West Hollywood, California. Ivy Bottini is a legendary activist, professional artist, mother, award-winning actress, and community leader. Renowned from coast to coast for her feminism and fight for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) community, she paved the way for many of the advances in civil and human rights we enjoy today. Ivy was a founding member of the first chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) in 1966. She designed the iconic logo for the organization, which is still in use today. In August of 1970 Ivy and over 150 of her fellow activists made headlines by unveiling a banner reading “Women of the World Unite” over the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty. Ivy moved to Los Angeles in 1971, and from the time she set foot in the community, she has been working to improve the quality of life for its people. She speaks her mind and amplifies the voices of those in need around her. She founded AIDS Network LA, Los Angeles’ first AIDS organization and the Los Angeles Lesbian/Gay Police Advisory Board, cofounded AIDS Project LA and served for over 15 years on the West Hollywood Lesbian and Gay Advisory Board. In 1981, she was appointed by Governor Jerry Brown to the California Commission on Aging making Ivy the first “out” lesbian or gay person to be appointed to a state board or commission. She was instrumental as an advocate for affordable housing for Gay and Lesbian seniors in the opening of “Triangle Square,” the first in the nation assisted living, affordable income apartment complex for LGBT elders. Over the years, Ivy has received numerous recognitions for her years of service and most recently, she was recognized as the 2016 Woman of the Year for the 3rd Supervisorial District of the County of Los Angeles and as the 2017 Woman of the Year for the 50th Assembly District of the State of California. Ivy is an inspiration throughout the country. Her life’s work is an example of finding one’s voice and using it forcefully for the benefit of all Americans. I ask all Members to join me in honoring this exceptional, well-respected woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Ivy Bottini. ###
03.23.18	03.23.18 Schiff, Bishop Applaud Signing of Bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Bishop (R-MI) applauded the final passage and signing of the bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act (CPIA). CPIA ensures youth-serving organizations in every state can access FBI background checks for prospective staff and volunteers. “When parents send their children to after-school programs, sports camps, or for mentoring, they should be able to trust that their children are in good hands,” Rep. Schiff said. “An FBI background check is the gold standard, and I believe that’s what we should strive for when it comes to protecting children, seniors, and individuals with disabilities who are put in potentially vulnerable situations. CPIA will ensure that every child serving organization in America has access to the most comprehensive and effective background check possible.” “We can all agree on the importance of providing a safe environment for our children – but unfortunately, thousands of organizations serving children and other vulnerable populations are often unable to access the gold standard for criminal background checks, the FBI’s fingerprint-based background checks,” said Rep. Bishop. “With the signing of CPIA into law, our youth-serving organizations across America will have the resources they need to hire the best possible employees and volunteers to work with our children.” “Staff and volunteers at the Y teach, care for and mentor 9 million children each year. Child safety is our top priority,” said Kevin Washington, President and CEO of YMCA of the USA. “Thank you to Representatives Schiff and Bishop for their leadership in working to assure that FBI checks, one essential tool for providing safe environments for children, are more broadly accessible.” “MENTOR strongly supports final passage of this critical and commonsense piece of legislation that prioritizes the safety and well-being of young people,” said David Shapiro, CEO of MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership. “We are grateful to Representatives Schiff and Bishop for their leadership in introducing and leading on this bill and for their continued bipartisan commitment to giving organizations serving young people the best tools to protect them.” Specifically, the Child Protection Improvements Act: Ensures that organizations that serve children, individuals with disabilities, and the elderly all across the country will have access to FBI fingerprint searches in a timely and affordable manner; Protects privacy rights by ensuring that the specifics of a criminal record are never disclosed without explicit consent by the volunteer or employee, and provides an opportunity for individuals to correct errors in their records; Does NOT authorize any new spending. The program will be supported by the fees assessed for background checks from the requesting nonprofit organizations; Does NOT require organizations to utilize FBI fingerprint background checks, only makes them available to those wishing to utilize them. The bill has garnered support from 34 national organizations, including: American Camp Association Big Brothers, Big Sisters of America Boys and Girls Clubs of America Girl Scouts of the USA MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership Mentoring USA National 4-H Council National Network for Youth National Summer Learning Association National Center for Missing and Exploited Children National PTA YMCA of the USA Reps. Schiff and Bishop introduced CPIA in January 2017. The bill passed the House in May 2017, and a modified version passed the Senate in October 2017. ###
03.22.18	03.22.18 Schiff Helps Secure Over $20 Million in Funding for Earthquake Early Warning System FY18 Omnibus Includes $22.9 Million for ShakeAlert Development and Limited Public Rollout Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that a record-level $22.9 million in funding for a West Coast earthquake early warning system (EEW), also known as ShakeAlert, was included in the FY2018 omnibus spending bill which just passed the House. Schiff has led the Congressional effort to secure funding for EEW technology since 2014. “The omnibus includes record-level funding for a West Coast earthquake early warning system. If signed into law, the additional funds will significantly build out the system, of which there will soon be a limited public roll-out this fall,” said Rep. Schiff. “The system will not only help protect infrastructure and businesses, but also prevent injuries and save lives across California, Oregon and Washington. I am grateful to my colleague, Congressman Ken Calvert, for his continued leadership and assistance in securing this vital funding.” The FY2018 omnibus provides $12.9 million for continued development of EEW and for its first limited public rollout, a $2.7 million increase from FY2017. The spending bill also provides a one-time $10 million investment for capital costs associated with the buildout of EEW. Schiff first secured $5 million in funding for the system in FY15. Congress increased funding to $8.2 million for FY2016 and then again to $10.2 for FY2017. It is estimated that a full system of sensors will cost $38.2 million to build out along the West Coast, with annual operating and maintenance costs of $16.1 million. ###
03.22.18	03.22.18 Schiff Urges FAA to Review Airplane Noise Surrounding Burbank Airport Residents are Concerned NextGen Implementation has Lowered Airplane Altitudes, Increasing Noise Washington D.C. – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) has sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Acting Administrator Daniel Elwell, urging the FAA to review the impacts of NextGen air traffic control technology on the community surrounding the Hollywood Burbank Airport. “Airplane noise is not new to the Burbank area, but residents are concerned that NextGen flight path changes may have exacerbated the problem,” Rep. Schiff said. “I’m asking for an authoritative study from the FAA to determine whether NextGen is the cause of increased noise to area residents. If it is, we would urge the FAA to adjust current flight paths and ensure that established altitude levels for planes flying above residential areas are safely enforced.” The FAA has been implementing NextGen -- a shifting of air traffic control from ground-based radar and radio navigation to more precise satellite-based navigation and aircraft tracking -- across the country. Los Angeles County implemented NextGen via the Southern California Metroplex in April 2017, which altered flight routes for some airports in the Los Angeles region. The full text of the letter follows: March 20, 2018 The Honorable Dan ElwellActing Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Ave SWWashington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Elwell: I write to ask that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) review the impacts of NextGen on the community surrounding the Hollywood Burbank Airport. Since the implementation of the Southern California Metroplex, a number of my constituents have experienced increased aircraft noise coming in and out of the airport. Airplane noise is not new to the Burbank area. For years, I have been working to get a mandatory curfew in place at the airport to give my constituents relief from nighttime flights. Now there is concern that the noise is only exacerbated due to new flight patterns instituted by the FAA as part of the NextGen air traffic control technology. I understand that the City of Burbank along with the Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena Airport Authority wrote to you earlier this month regarding these concerns. I share these concerns, and I ask for an authoritative study to determine the cause of any increased noise around the Hollywood Burbank Airport. As the FAA reviews its post-implementation of Southern California Metroplex, it is imperative that the FAA examine the changes made and ensure that these changes do not detrimentally affect the daily lives of those living around the airport. Should the FAA determine that NextGen is the cause of this increase in noise, I ask the FAA to adjust the current flight paths and ensure that the FAA-established altitude levels for planes flying above residential areas are safely enforced. Thank you for your consideration of my concerns and those of my constituents. I look forward to hearing from you and working together on this issue. Sincerely, Adam SchiffMember of Congress ###
03.19.18	03.19.18 Reps. Schiff, Roybal-Allard, Gomez and 10 L.A. Congressional Members Urge Funding for Los Angeles River Ecosystem Restoration Washington D.C. - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), and Rep. Jimmy Gomez (CA-34) were joined by 10 colleagues from the Los Angeles Area Congressional Delegation in sending a letter urging the House Appropriations Committee to provide at least $121 million to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Fiscal Year 2019 for preconstruction engineering and design projects across the nation, including one related to the Los Angeles River. “The City of Los Angeles has already pledged a large contribution to the Los Angeles Ecosystem Restoration Project,” said Congressman Schiff. “It is now Congress’s responsibility to make sure the Army Corps has the resources to pay their share. Returning the river to its natural prominence and beauty will take time, and that’s why we must give the Corps the necessary funds so that together we can provide Angelenos the green space they desire and deserve.” “As a leader of the years-long effort to revitalize our beloved LA River, I urge my Appropriations Committee colleagues to keep funding the programs that will help make our dream come true,” said Congresswoman Roybal-Allard. “When we revitalize the entire LA River, we will not only create an economic and recreational beacon for my Southeast communities, we will bolster the ecological and environmental status of our entire state. It is imperative that we provide our Army Corps of Engineers with the funding it needs to work with our local stakeholders to continue work on the River.” “We are at a critical moment where we can sustainably transform the Los Angeles River from a concrete canal back into a place of community and ecological restoration,” said Congressman Gomez. “By working to restore these neglected ecosystems, we can bring people together and boost our regional economy. Investing in the future of the LA River is investing in the future of our communities.” "The L.A. River is a natural treasure — it is central to our city's history, and holds extraordinary potential for the future of the communities that surround it and everyone who lives in or visits Los Angeles," said Mayor Eric Garcetti. "I am grateful to our congressional delegation for their commitment to restoring the river and helping us revitalize a priceless civic and cultural resource." Schiff, Roybal-Allard and Gomez were joined on the letter by Representatives Judy Chu (CA-27), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Karen Bass (CA-37), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Julia Brownley (CA-26) and Alan Lowenthal (CA-47). In 2015, the Army Corps signed the LA River project’s Chief’s Report and the FY17 Army Corps work plan included $400,000 for the LA River in its Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED) activities. The President’s Budget for FY19 did not include specific funding for the LA River project and recommended only $82 million for project planning and engineering. By requesting that the Appropriations Committee include $121 million, the LA Delegation can ensure that the LA River project has the opportunity to receive more robust funding for FY 2019. The full text of the letter follows: Dear Chairman Simpson and Ranking Member Kaptur: As you prepare your Fiscal Year 2019 Appropriations bill, we strongly urge you to provide at least $121 million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ Investigations account to support ongoing Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration projects and Preconstruction Engineering and Design activities. The President’s Fiscal Year 2019 budget only requests $82 million for this overall account, and we have concerns that it does not reflect nor address the scope of funding necessary to complete many project designs. Aquatic ecosystem restoration is one of the most important aspects of the Corps’ mission. Many of our nation’s once pristine waterways are damaged and distressed, not only affecting our ecological health, but also those who live in the surrounding areas. By working to restore these neglected ecosystems to their original condition, we can protect our natural resources, promote environmental sustainability, and spur local economic and job growth around these spaces. From our nation’s heartland all the way to Los Angeles, our lands and waters are truly breathtaking. All Americans should have the opportunity to enjoy and take pride in the stewardship of the environment. This includes restoring ecosystems in places where access to nature has been on the decline, like cities and urbanized areas, and where local sponsors are shouldering an outsized cost share because of high land value. With projects like Los Angeles Ecosystem Restoration Project and others that have signed favorable Chief’s Reports, a commitment to providing additional funds will reflect the importance of bringing these projects from concept to reality. As such, we respectfully urge you to provide at least $121 million in funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ Fiscal Year 2019 Investigations account including additional support for ongoing aquatic ecosystem restoration projects and Preconstruction Engineering and Design activities. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress Lucille Roybal-AllardMember of Congress Jimmy GomezMember of Congress ###
03.16.18	03.16.18 Reps. Schiff, DelBene, DeFazio and 44 Colleagues Urge Increased Funding to Build Out Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA) and Peter DeFazio (D-OR) were joined by 44 Members of Congress – primarily from California, Washington, and Oregon – in sending a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging them to increase the federal funding level to $16.1 million in the Fiscal Year 2019 to fully build out and maintain an earthquake early warning system on the West Coast. A limited earthquake early warning system developed by Caltech, UC Berkeley, University of Washington, and the University of Oregon in conjunction with the United States Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed in a beta testing phase and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. “Congress must continue to fund construction and maintenance of an earthquake early warning system along the West Coast, which sits atop major fault lines,” said Rep. Schiff. “Our residents and infrastructure are particularly vulnerable to earthquakes. The earthquake early warning technology has been proven sound during testing in the United States, as well is in countries like Mexico and Japan, and it would be irresponsible not to provide this life-saving technology to the public before the next ‘big one’ hits.” “While the Pacific Northwest is one of the most beautiful places to live, its landscape also presents unique challenges,” said Rep. DelBene. “Unfortunately, we know all too well earthquakes can cause great devastation and the U.S. Geological Survey has told us it’s only a matter of time before the next big one. We can and must make smart investments now in resources and research efforts to help prevent future natural disasters from becoming national tragedies.” “In an earthquake, every second counts,” said Rep. DeFazio. “The University of Oregon and other West Coast universities are doing important work to build an early warning system that will give people extra seconds to save lives, avoid or reduce injury and mitigate infrastructure damage during a major earthquake. I will continue to push for the funding necessary to develop and deploy earthquake preparedness and earthquake early warning systems.” Schiff, DelBene and DeFazio were joined on the letter by Representatives Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), John Garamendi (D-CA), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Denny Heck (D-WA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Scott Peters (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Norma Torres (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), and Maxine Waters (D-CA). Schiff first secured $5 million in funding for the system in FY15. Congress increased funding to $8.2 million for FY16 and then again to $10.2 for FY17. The FY2018 House Interior bill included $10.2 million, but this funding has not been enacted. This year, the members are requesting $16.1 million in funding. It is estimated that a full system of sensors will cost $38.2 million to build out along the West Coast, with annual operating and maintenance costs of $16.1 million. The full letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, is below: Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: As you craft the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you provide the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) with $16.1 million for the construction, operation and maintenance of a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System, also called ShakeAlert. The USGS, in collaboration with Caltech, UC Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon, has developed ShakeAlert, which detects waves radiating from the epicenter of a quake and would provide people with several to tens of seconds of warning in California, and up to few minutes in Washington and Oregon through their phones, computers and other media. This is a “smart infrastructure” investment that will ultimately provide advanced notice so people can take cover, automated systems can be triggered to slow down trains and manage the power grid, doctors can pause surgeries, and more. The technology has been tested and proven to work effectively. FEMA has estimated that earthquakes cost the United States, averaged over the long term, more than $5 billion a year. This common-sense investment will save lives, protect businesses, and could make a real difference in more rapid recovery for local communities, the federal government and the economy as a whole. We appreciate the growing support from the Committee that we saw over the past few years, and we hope that this support will continue this year. While we cannot predict when and where the next major earthquake will hit, we must do all we can to prepare ourselves so that we can mitigate the injuries, destruction, and chaos as much as possible. We appreciate your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Peter DeFazio Member of Congress
03.09.18	03.09.18 Rep. Schiff Submits Statement to Congressional Record Honoring Victims of Sumgait Pogrom Washington, DC – Last week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Vice-Chair of the Congressional Armenian Caucus, submitted a statement to the Congressional Record honoring the lives of those lost in the pogrom thirty years ago. Schiff’s full statement is below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the pogrom against the Armenian residents of the town of Sumgait, Azerbaijan. On February 27 1988, and for three days following, Azerbaijani mobs assaulted and killed Armenians. The violence left hundreds of Armenian civilians dead and injured, women and girls were raped, and some victims were burned alive. Thousands were forced to flee their homes, leaving behind their belonging. “The pogroms came about as the result of years of vicious, racist anti-Armenian propaganda by Azerbaijani authorities, dehumanizing Armenians. Azerbaijan authorities made little effort to punish those responsible, instead attempting to cover up the atrocities in Sumgait to this day, and denying the government role in instigating the killings. Indeed, even today, racist propaganda against Armenia and Armenians is prevalent in Azerbaijan. “The assault on ethnic Armenian civilians in Sumgait helped touch off what would become a direct conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan which took thousands of lives and dislocated millions more. The anniversary of Sumgait is a reminder of the consequences when aggression and hatred grow unchecked. “Mr. Speaker, this April we will mark the 103rd Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, an event the Turkish government, Azerbaijan’s closest ally, goes to great lengths to deny. We must not let such crimes against humanity go unrecognized, whether they occurred yesterday or 30 years ago or 100 years ago. Today, let us pause to remember the victims of the atrocities of the Sumgait pogroms. Mr. Speaker, it is our moral obligation to condemn crimes of hatred and to remember the victims, in hope that history will not be repeated.”
02.27.18	02.27.18 Bipartisan Schiff, Bilirakis “Heart Futures Reauthorization Act” Passes House Legislation Supports Critical Research, Education and Awareness for Congenital Heart Disease Washington D.C. - Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Congenital Heart Futures Reauthorization Act, introduced by Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), which supports critical research, education and awareness for congenital heart disease (CHD). CHD is the most common birth defect and the leading cause of infant mortality. This bill raises awareness of the continuing impact congenital heart defects have throughout patients’ lifespans, promotes more research at the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and National Institutes of Health (NIH), and encourages the development of lifelong, specialized care for patients with a congenital heart defect. “Children born with congenital heart defects face lingering health risks and increased medical costs throughout their entire lives,” said Rep. Schiff. “This bipartisan bill will enable the CDC and NIH to continue vital research studies into early childhood congenital heart defects to assess the lifelong needs of those born with CHD.” "Better data leads to better research. This bi-partisan initiative is about giving hope to families who have suffered and improving the quality of life for millions of Americans by investing in life-saving research," said Rep. Bilirakis. "I urge my Senate colleagues to do the right thing on behalf of sick kids and join me in this fight by sending the bill to the President’s desk as quickly as possible.” Nearly 40,000 babies in America are born with CHD every year, and more than five percent will not live to see their first birthday. Even for those who receive successful intervention, there is no cure. Children and adults with CHD require ongoing, costly, specialized cardiac care, and face a lifelong risk of permanent disability and premature death. As a result, healthcare utilization among the CHD population is significantly higher than the general population. First passed in 2010, the bipartisan Congenital Heart Futures Act expanded infrastructure to track the epidemiology of CHD at the CDC and increased lifelong CHD research at NIH. These efforts have improved the understanding of CHD across the lifespan of patients, age-specific prevalence, and factors associated with dropping out of appropriate specialty care. Without action, these activities will expire. The Congenital Heart Futures Reauthorization Act will allow the CDC and NIH to build upon existing programs and focus on successful activities addressing this public health need.
01.29.18	01.29.18 Congressional Freedom of the Press Caucus Statement of Support for Pakistani Radio Mashaal Public Service Broadcaster was Closed By Pakistani Authorities on January 19 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Co-Chairs of the Freedom of the Press Caucus, released the following statement: “As co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, we are deeply concerned by the recent decision of Pakistan’s Ministry of Interior to shut down Radio Mashaal, a public service broadcaster that provides alternatives to extremist propaganda in tribal regions along the Afghan border. “Radio Mashaal’s correspondents provide in-depth international and local reporting in a country where journalists have been threatened, attacked, kidnapped, detained, and killed. Its closure is an unwelcome setback in the fight against extremism and strikes another blow against press freedom in a region consistently ranked among the most dangerous in the world for journalists. If Pakistan is serious about countering extremism, it must recognize that Radio Mashaal is an ally and that its ban sends the wrong message.” Radio Mashaal is the Pashto-language service of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL), a private news organization supported by Congress. The Press Freedom Caucus remains dedicated to supporting the work of news organizations like RFE/RL that are committed to spreading accurate and objective information in the places where such journalism is most difficult. We join with RFE/RL in its call for the safety of Radio Mashaal’s reporters and their families in Pakistan to be ensured, and that they be allowed to resume their journalistic activities without fear or delay.” ###
01.22.18	01.22.18 Schiff Urges U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to Stop Using Roundup in the Los Angeles River Corps Must Prioritize Public Safety by Using Safer Alternatives for Vegetation Management Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) sent a letter to Colonel Kirk E. Gibbs urging the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to end the use of glyphosate (Roundup) as part of its Los Angeles District vegetation management plan in the Los Angeles River. “Over the past year I have heard from numerous constituents and community organizations with concerns over public safety given the USACE’s use of glyphosate in the Los Angeles River,” Schiff wrote in the letter. “Local and state agencies have also seen the potential risks from human exposure to this chemical and have limited or banned its use. “I once again urge the USACE to end its use of products containing glyphosate as part of the LAR vegetation management plan in favor of safe alternatives. Should the USACE not do so, I intend to consider legislative remedies to protect the health of our Los Angeles community.” ### The full text of the letter is below: January 22, 2018 Colonel Kirk E. Gibbs, District Commander Los Angeles District U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 915 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 930 Los Angeles, CA 90017 Dear Colonel Gibbs: Thank you for your letter dated December 20, 2017 detailing the use of glyphosate (Roundup) as a part of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), Los Angeles District’s vegetation management plan in the Los Angeles River (LAR). Over the past year I have heard from numerous constituents and community organizations with concerns over public safety given the USACE’s use of glyphosate in the Los Angeles River. Local and state agencies have also seen the potential risks from human exposure to this chemical and have limited or banned its use. The State of California added glyphosate to the Proposition 65 list of chemicals known to cause cancer, birth defects, or other reproductive harm on July 7, 2017. Additionally, in the article “Glyphosate Use and Cancer Incidence in the Agricultural Study,” by Gabriella Andreotti et al., published in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute on November 9, 2017, which was referenced in the most recent U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Draft Human Health and Ecological Risk Assessments for Glyphosate, the authors concluded that a possible association exists between glyphosate and acute myeloid leukemia, a type of cancer. Given the high density of residences in close proximity or immediately adjacent to the LAR corridor, the USACE must err on the side of human health and public safety, as well as accede to the wishes of state and local authorities. I once again urge the USACE to end its use of products containing glyphosate as part of the LAR vegetation management plan in favor of safe alternatives. Should the USACE not do so, I intend to consider legislative remedies to protect the health of our Los Angeles community. Your prompt attention to this matter is greatly appreciated. ADAM B. SCHIFF
01.18.18	01.18.18 Rep. Schiff Statement on FEMA Individual Assistance for California Wildfires Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), released the following statement regarding FEMA’s decision to grant individual assistance for the California wildfires: “FEMA recently announced that individual assistance is now available for residents in Los Angeles County who were affected by the wildfires in December and the mudslides in January,” Rep. Schiff said. “This is a most welcome step by the Administration. “In addition, loans are available for businesses and homeowners through the Small Business Administration. I encourage residents in need of more information and assistance with these agencies to reach out to my district office staff.” Congressman Schiff’s staff can be reached at either (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555. In addition, Disaster Recovery Centers (DRC) can provide detailed information about FEMA resources and can assist with applications for disaster assistance. To locate a Disaster Recovery Center in your area text DRC and a zip code to 43362 (4FEMA). Applications for FEMA (including SBA) assistance are available online by going to DisasterAssistance.gov or by phone at 800-621-3362 or (TTY) 800-462-7585. Applicants who use 711 or Video Relay Service may call 800-621-3362. You will need the following information to apply for assistance: Social Security number Address of the damaged primary residence Description of the damage Information about insurance coverage A current contact telephone number An address where they can receive mail Bank account and routing numbers for direct deposit of funds ###
12.21.17	12.21.17 Freedom of Press Caucus Urges Secretary Tillerson to Pressure Burma to Release Two Reuters Journalists Washington, D.C. – Reps. Adam Schiff (CA-28) and Steve Chabot (OH-01), today along with six other colleagues from the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, wrote to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson requesting that the State Department urge Burma to drop all charges and immediately release Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, who could face up to 14 years in prison for their investigative journalism. Their reporting has extensively focused on the Rakhine State’s refugee crisis, where over 600,000 Rohingya, including at least 250,000 children, have fled into neighboring Bangladesh, as they sought refuge from assault, rape, and murder by Burmese state security forces. The journalists arrested have reportedly been charged for unlawful possession of military documents pertaining to the violence in Rakhine State. In the letter, the eight members write: “Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo arrest shows that the Burmese military is attempting to silence the atrocities it cannot deny. By helping to expose ongoing violence in Rakhine State – violence the Burmese military has denied – journalists have helped keep international pressure on Burma to end its violence. That is why we believe that press freedom is essential to ending this crisis and that working to free Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo will further American efforts to bring a resolution to the crisis. To that end, we ask you to use all available U.S. diplomatic tools to urge the Government of Burma to drop all charges and immediately release Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo.” Schiff and Chabot were joined in the letter by six of their colleagues: Rep. Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Rep. Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. (NY-11), Rep. David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Rep. Barbara Comstock (VA-10), Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-02) and Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-33). The full letter can be found below: Dear Secretary Tillerson, As Members of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, we are deeply troubled by the recent arrest in Burma of Reuters’ journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo. These arrests come amid a growing crackdown on press freedom, which is having a grave impact on the ability of journalists to cover Burma’s military persecution of the Rohingya in Rakhine State. Both journalists have reported extensively on the Rakhine State’s refugee crisis, where over 600,000 Rohingya, including at least 250,000 children, have fled into neighboring Bangladesh, as they sought refuge from assault, rape, and murder by Burmese state security forces. The journalists arrested have reportedly been charged for unlawful possession of military documents pertaining to the violence in Rakhine State. They have put themselves at great personal risk to report on the Rohingya crisis and could face up to 14 years in prison for their investigative journalism. We applaud the actions you have taken so far to help resolve the crisis in Burma, including providing humanitarian assistance to Bangladesh, correctly characterizing the violence against the Rohingya as ethnic cleansing, and a commitment to holding Burmese military officials accountable through U.S. law, including possible targeted sanctions. As you know, the House has been actively engaged in seeking a resolution to the crisis as well. Earlier this month the House passed H.Con.Res. 90 with near-unanimous, bipartisan support to condemn the ethnic cleansing in Burma. The House Committee on Foreign Affairs is also considering the bipartisan the BURMA Act of 2017, which would enhance sanctions against those who violate human rights in Burma. Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo arrest shows that the Burmese military is attempting to silence the atrocities it cannot deny. By helping to expose ongoing violence in Rakhine State – violence the Burmese military has denied – journalists have helped keep international pressure on Burma to end its violence. That is why we believe that press freedom is essential to ending this crisis and that working to free Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo will further American efforts to bring a resolution to the crisis. To that end, we ask you to use all available U.S. diplomatic tools to urge the Government of Burma to drop all charges and immediately release Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter.
12.04.17	12.04.17 Freedom of the Press Caucus Condemns Russia’s Designation of Foreign Media as “Foreign Agents” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Co-Chairs of the Freedom of the Press Caucus, released the following statement: "President Putin has signed legislation that would empower the government to designate foreign media organizations as ‘foreign agents’ and place even more restrictions on them. This law further threatens what little remains of free and independent journalism in Russia. Having systematically suppressed the independent press through attacks and imprisonment, while building a state-sponsored propaganda network to take its place, Putin has taken yet another step to further choke off discussion and investigation into corruption and other issues the Kremlin would prefer to conceal. "Russian officials have stated this legislation is a 'reciprocal response' to the U.S. Justice Department decision requiring the Russian state-funded media outlets RT and Sputnik to register in the United States under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA). This is just a pretext to further limit opposition voices. The Justice Department required RT and Sputnik to register as a result of the U.S. intelligence community's finding that they spread disinformation as part of a Kremlin effort to undermine Western democracies. FARA promotes transparency, which is far different from designating independent media as a foreign agent and subjecting them to interference by state authorities. "A free and independent press is a crucial ingredient in any democracy to hold those in power accountable. It's abundantly clear that this action has nothing to do with reciprocity, and everything to do with the Kremlin's efforts to crack down on all dissent and free exchange of information in Russia."
12.01.17	12.01.17 Intel Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on Flynn Plea Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “The significance of today’s plea deal by former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, in which he pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate with the Special Counsel, cannot be overstated. The Statement of the Offense included important new details, including that Flynn was directed by a senior transition official to contact Russian officials in an effort to influence Russia’s response to the Obama Administration’s imposition of sanctions and the UN Security Council resolution vote on Israeli settlements, and, crucially, that he reported back to transition officials. “Flynn’s lies to the FBI are especially significant because they were made at a time when he was serving as President Trump’s National Security Advisor, a position of incredible importance and responsibility, and one integral to the safety of the nation. Flynn’s decision to admit to these lies and cooperate with the Special Counsel occurred, if press reports are to be believed, with the backdrop of broad legal exposure by Flynn, in addition to his son. “The action today by the Special Counsel is another indication of the thoroughness and professionalism of Robert Mueller and his team, who have been methodically working towards identifying and prosecuting potential criminal acts. We hope that the cooperation of General Flynn that Special Counsel has secured as a part of this plea agreement extends to Flynn’s cooperation with our committee, as his testimony could greatly advance our efforts. Our investigation in Congress is not only looking at the actions of individuals affiliated with the Trump campaign, but is also examining the broader issues of how the Russians worked to undermine our election and what steps we as a nation can take to harden our electoral process in future. “The plea secured by Mueller may prompt the White House and its allies to seek to curtail congressional investigations, as President Trump has attempted to do already, or end the Special Counsel’s work prematurely. Congress must make it clear that this would not be acceptable, that we will continue doing a diligent and thoughtful investigation, and do everything in our power to ensure the independence of the Special Counsel.”
12.07.18	12.07.18 Thirty-Four Members of Congress Urge Administration to Support Robust Funding for Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Peter DeFazio (D-OR), along with 31 Members of Congress, wrote a letter to the Office of Management and Budget Director, Mick Mulvaney, strongly urging the Trump Administration to include funding in the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget for the continued development and operation of the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System (EEW). “To follow through on the funding made by the federal government, as well as growing commitment from states and the private sector, it is critical that this program be properly funded so the West Coast will be prepared for the next catastrophic earthquake,” the Members wrote in their letter. “This technology will save lives and reduce the economic impact of an earthquake; it simply needs to be properly funded.” EEW technology, also known as ShakeAlert, is already fully operational in countries like Japan and Mexico, and is credited for saving lives during Mexico City’s earthquake in September. Such an early warning system could provide residents and first responders with advanced notice that could help save lives, avoid injuries, and avert major infrastructural damage by slowing trains to prevent derailment, stopping elevators, pausing surgeries and taking other actions in the event of a major earthquake. Rep. Schiff, who helped secure consistent and increased federal funding since Fiscal Year 2015 for a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System said, “Congress has made plain its sustained and bipartisan support for ShakeAlert, and its implementation is crucial to saving lives, infrastructure and property. We will continue to urge the Trump Administration to recognize the immense value of this system and fully support its funding so that it can be deployed widely before the ‘big one’ hits.” “In the Pacific Northwest, it is not a matter of if, but when, the next big earthquake will strike. By investing in the Earthquake Early Warning system, Congress can buy valuable seconds for Americans to seek cover or get to higher ground. Anything short of fully funding this valuable technology puts people and our communities at risk,” Rep. Derek Kilmer said. “Life-saving earthquake early warning technology exists, but is not yet fully implemented in the United States because of a lack of will—that has to change. We’re living on borrowed time,” said Rep. DeFazio, Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “In an earthquake, every second counts. We could save lives and protect critical infrastructure if we installed a robust early warning system, like ShakeAlert. It’s only a matter of time before we see a major quake off the Oregon Coast and we must be prepared for that day.” The White House eliminated funding for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system in both its Fiscal Year 2018 and 2019 budget requests. Congress has recognized the critical need for implementation of an Earthquake Early Warning System and has provided funding for its development and implementation in recent Fiscal Years. Because of sustained support on the federal level, as well as significant financial contributions from the State of California, ShakeAlert is now available to the public on a limited basis. Businesses, schools and local governments can partner with ShakeAlert to distribute the alerts for members of their organizations. With continued support from all levels of government – at both the state and federal level – individuals all along the West Coast will soon be able to receive alerts through their phones. ShakeAlert is being developed by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) in conjunction with California Institute of Technology; the University of California, Berkeley; the University of Washington; the University of Oregon; the University of Nevada, Reno; and Central Washington University. Schiff, Kilmer and DeFazio were joined by Reps. Nanette Barragán (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Salud O. Carbajal (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Susan Davis (D-CA), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Denny Heck (D-WA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), and Juan Vargas (D-CA). ###
10.18.17	10.18.17 Rep. Schiff and Senator Feinstein Introduce Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act Legislation Would Add 191,000 Acres to Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) announced the introduction of the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act. This landmark legislation would add more than 191,000 acres of the Rim of the Valley Corridor to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA). The Rim of the Valley stretches from the Simi Hills and Santa Susanas to the Verdugos and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. "The Rim of the Valley is the critical bridge between the urban city centers, suburbs in the Los Angeles basin and the spectacular wilderness beyond – our bill would help protect these lands for generations to come," said Rep. Schiff. "As more of this area is developed and open space diminishes, the wildlife it supports is increasingly at risk. Congress must preserve the Rim of the Valley for generations to come, but we must act quickly on a bipartisan basis, or this once in a century opportunity will be gone." “Preserving access to open spaces is essential for quality of life in the Los Angeles basin,” said Senator Feinstein. “As more and more land is lost to urban areas, saving natural places like the Rim of the Valley Corridor is becoming increasingly important. Working closely with the local communities to develop legislation, our bill enjoys broad public support because it ensures Southern Californians will have continued access to public lands for recreation and protects critical areas for wildlife habit while respecting private property and local land use authorities.” “National Parks Conservation Association commends Representative Schiff, Senator Feinstein and other members of Congress for working to protect Griffith Park, the Los Angeles River, Santa Clarita Valley, Santa Susana Mountains and other historic sites and wild spaces, through the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act. The legislation would build upon the successful cooperative model that the National Park Service has formed with Los Angeles communities and will bring tremendous benefits to the region’s 17 million residents,” said Dennis Arguelles, Los Angeles Program Manager for National Parks Conservation Association. In 2008, Congressman Schiff passed the Rim of the Valley Corridor Study Act. This bill directed the National Park Service (NPS) to conduct a special resource study of the Rim of the Valley Corridor. The study sought to determine the suitability and feasibility of designating all or a portion of the Rim of the Valley Corridor as a unit of the existing SMMNRA, and how these areas could be better managed and preserved. The National Park Service began the study in 2010 and transmitted its final report to Congress and the public in February 2016. Throughout the process, both NPS and Congressman Schiff solicited and considered thousands of comments from the public. The Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act would expand the SMMNRA to include many, but not all, of the land included in the study. The lands included within the expansion will be known as the Rim of the Valley Unit. The bill will enable NPS and the local community to better protect natural resources and habitats, and provide members of the community with improved access to nature for recreational and educational purposes. It will provide NPS with the authority to: Implement capital improvements (i.e. trails, roads, facilities for public enjoyment) Monitor and study wildlife and ecosystems Participate in cooperative conservation and recreation planning Provide technical assistance for resource protection and recreation planning Contribute financially to projects that protect important natural resources Acquire land through donation, exchange, or purchase from will sellers; directly manage NPS lands The expansion of the SMMNRA boundaries respects private property rights and existing local land use authorities. It will not require a land owner to participate in any conservation or recreation activities, and it will not put any additional restrictions on property owners. The bill does not allow for land acquisition through eminent domain. Last year, Rep. Schiff introduced this bill with Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA). To view a map of the proposed expansion under the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act, click here. To view the fact sheet about the legislation, click here.
10.13.17	10.13.17 Intel Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on President Trump’s Decision to Decertify Iran Deal Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “When the Iran nuclear deal was voted on by Congress in 2015, I was cognizant that it was not a perfect agreement. I was particularly concerned about the eventual sunset of the limits on Iranian enrichment capacity. I was aware that while we could hope that the deal would signal a new opening to the West, strengthen the hand of the moderate faction in Iran, and over time temper Iran’s malevolent behavior, such an outcome was not guaranteed. “However my judgment then was that the deal did one singularly important thing – it verifiably cut off Iran's path to a nuclear weapon and extended their breakout time beyond a year, rather than a few weeks or months. I also understood that the crippling sanctions that brought Iran to the negotiating table in the first place could not be maintained indefinitely and that if the United States walked away from the agreement, the international sanctions regime may well have crumbled, leaving Iran with many of the benefits of the JCPOA without the cost of heightened inspections and limited enrichment capacity. “It is with that backdrop that I evaluate the President's announcement that he will not certify to Congress that Iran is in compliance with the JCPOA. The decision to decertify is not based on a material breach of the JCPOA, as the Administration acknowledges that Iran remains in compliance. It was not based on the counsel of the President's senior national security team, as both Secretary Mattis and General Dunford have made clear their belief that in the absence of a breach, the President should provide certification to Congress. It appears it is simply based on the President's anger that he must certify that the JCPOA is working as intended, when he so often claimed the contrary without any factual basis. “Among the many destructive and dangerous aspects of this decision is sowing further doubt that the United States will live up to its international commitments. If other nations do not believe that we will abide by our agreements, how can we credibly negotiate a diplomatic settlement to the North Korean crisis? “The failure to certify triggers a 60 day period in which Congress can reinstate nuclear sanctions against Iran under expedited procedures. However, in the absence of a breach, Congress should not take any action which would be contrary to our commitments under the JCPOA. Instead, Congress should endeavor to do what the President failed to do – abide by the JCPOA, uphold America's global leadership role and credibility, and develop a strategy to counter Iranian influence and malevolence in non-nuclear areas. “The President presented a list of the Iranian regime’s misdeeds – and there are many. What he did not provide is a coherent strategy to counter them, despite proclaiming a grand new approach. It would behoove the President and Congress to consider how much more difficult countering Iranian influence would be if the nuclear deal had not verifiably cut off their path to becoming a nuclear power.”
10.05.17	10.05.17 Schiff, Blumenthal Re-Introduce Legislation to Give Gun Victims Their Day in Court and End Gun Industry’s Liability Shield Legislation Would Repeal Liability Shield Gun Sellers and Manufacturers Currently Enjoy Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) re-introduced legislation – the Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act – to ensure that the victims of gun violence are allowed to have their day in court and that the gun industry – manufacturers, sellers and interest groups – is not shielded from liability when it acts with negligence and disregard for public safety. The bill would repeal the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA). In 2005, Congress passed PLCAA, which provides immunity in state and federal court from civil liability for manufacturers, distributors, and dealers of firearms, as well as their trade associations, in most negligence and products liability actions. This immunity from liability under well-established common law principles that apply to everyone else in society is unique to the gun industry. As a result, gun makers and sellers have a lesser obligation to act with reasonable care for the safety of the public. It also means that gun sellers can turn a blind eye to straw purchasers or traffickers who may buy hundreds of weapons and traffic them to others with no background check whatsoever. As most gun companies are responsible businesses, this immunity only protects the worst actors in the industry. “Our nation is plagued by an epidemic of mass shootings and everyday gun violence. While not every murderous act can be prevented by any single measure, we should use a comprehensive approach that includes holding the gun industry accountable when it acts negligently, just as we do with other industries.” Rep. Schiff said. “This bill would pierce the gun industry’s liability shield by putting an end to the special protections the gun industry receives when they shirk their fundamental responsibility to act with reasonable care for the public safety.” “When ten Sandy Hook families courageously took the manufacturer and distributor of the AR-15 used in that horrific tragedy to court, the deceptively named Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act was used as a complete barrier to their pursuit of justice. That’s because under current law – and unlike virtually every other manufacturer of consumer products – the gun industry cannot be sued by consumers who are harmed by their products,” Senator Blumenthal said. “Our simple measure will give victims of gun violence their day in court and unlock the doors to justice —repealing the sweetheart deal that Congress granted to the gun lobby.” “Making the gun industry immune from lawsuits effectively handed them a license to kill,” said Senator Murphy. “Toy manufacturers are held legally responsible if their neglect or irresponsibility hurts people, so why on earth aren’t gun manufacturers? I challenge my colleagues to put the safety of our constituents ahead of the gun lobby’s interests and support this bill. Repealing gun industry immunity will encourage gun manufacturers to make safer products, and it will save lives.” “Gun manufacturers have hidden behind PLCAA’s liability shield for far too long, with disastrous consequences for families in Connecticut,” said Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT). “This law denies victims of gun violence and their families a fair hearing in court. No other industry in America gets blanket protection from lawsuits. The special protection for the gun industry is wrong and should be repealed.” “As enacted in 2005, PLCAA gives the gun manufacturers, distributors and dealers unprecedented immunity from civil liability, which is an extraordinary exception provided no other American industry,” said Avery Gardiner, Brady Campaign Co-President. “Most egregious is that PLCAA denies many victims of gun violence and their loved ones their day in court, and makes it significantly harder to achieve industry reform through the courts. That is why Brady was so proud to help develop this legislation, and why it is well past time to take this insidious law off the books.” “PLCAA is nothing more than a crass giveaway to the gun industry,” said Chelsea Parsons, Vice President of Guns and Crime Policy at the Center for American Progress. “This law provides unprecedented immunity to these businesses from the type of civil litigation that is routine in other industries to help incentivize the adoption of best practices and safety measures to reduce the risk of harm caused by their products. This bill is a strong step forward in helping ensure that we have a robust system of oversight over the gun industry and the ability to hold bad actors accountable.” “In 2005, Congress enacted one of the biggest giveaways to private industry in American history by handing gun makers and dealers broad immunity from civil lawsuits,” said Elizabeth Avore, Legal and Policy Director at Everytown for Gun Safety. “In any other business, a victim of a negligent manufacturer or retailer can seek relief in a civil lawsuit—but Congress slammed the courthouse door shut for victims of gun violence. More than 300,000 Americans have been killed with guns since Congress passed the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. The Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act would right that wrong and make the gun industry play by the same rules as every other American business.” When Congress passed PLCAA, its supporters argued that it was necessary to protect the gun industry from frivolous lawsuits, but that victims of gun violence would not be shut out of the courts. Senator Larry Craig, the sponsor of the legislation and at the time a member of the NRA’s board, stated during debate on the Senate floor, “This bill will not prevent a single victim from obtaining relief for wrongs done to them by anyone in the gun industry.” In reality, numerous cases around the nation have been dismissed on the basis of PLCAA even when the gun dealers and manufacturers acted in a fashion that would qualify as negligent if it involved any other product. Victims in these cases were denied the right to even discover or introduce evidence of negligence. This legislation allows civil cases to go forward against irresponsible bad actors. Letting courts hear these cases would provide justice to victims while creating incentives for responsible business practices that would reduce injuries and deaths. To read the one page background document on the Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act, please click here. To read the legislation, please click here. To read the Center for American Progress background document on the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act and its history, please click here.
09.06.17	09.06.17 Rep. Schiff Statement After Republicans Block His Amendment to Protect DREAMers Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after Republicans on the House Rules Committee voted against Schiff’s amendment to defund any attempts to deport DREAMers after President Trump’s decision to end DACA: “Less than twelve hours after President Trump announced he would end DACA, House Republicans last night blocked my amendment which would have defunded any effort to deport the DREAMers targeted by Trump’s decision. Speaker Ryan has voiced support for DREAMers, but he can't have it both ways – expressing sympathy but preventing a vote to protect them. Why hold the office of Speaker if you are unwilling to lead on such a vital and moral issue?” In August, Schiff submitted an amendment to the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act that would prohibit the use of any funds for the deportation of individuals granted deferred action under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, the "DREAMers." Since the creation of DACA, more than 750,000 young undocumented immigrants have been granted work permits and deportation relief. Approximately one quarter of all DACA recipients live in California. The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act allocates funding for government programs for Fiscal Year 2018 and is being considered in Congress this week. Republicans on the Rules Committee blocked Schiff’s amendment and all other DACA-related amendments offered by Democrats.
09.05.17	09.05.17 Schiff Statement on President Trump’s Cruel Decision to End DACA Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement: “The President’s decision to end the DACA program is a cruel and arbitrary attack on DREAMers, designed to placate a narrow constituency and erase the legacy of his predecessor. There is nothing in the law or constitution that compels such a result. If the President supported protecting these young people and felt Congressional action was necessary, he could have urged Congress to act long before now, not pulled the rug out from the DREAMers in such cruel fashion. “For many DREAMers, America is the only home they’ve ever known. Brought across the border by their families when they were only children, these young people have grown up in America, gone to school in America, and made plans for their futures in America. The President would throw that all away. “When the DACA program was created, America made a promise to these DREAMers that they would be protected. The President’s action today has shattered this promise. Now, hundreds of thousands of young people are left wondering what the future holds for them and whether they’ll be forced to leave their friends, families, and communities. “Today, the President proved all his critics right: he lacks any sense of empathy, any devotion to a cause greater than himself. But Congress need not sit passively by while families are torn apart. I have offered an amendment to defund any effort to deport the DREAMers. It's time for Members of Congress to stand up and be counted.”
08.30.17	08.30.17 Rep. Schiff Introduces Amendment to Prohibit Funds for ‘Election Integrity’ Commission Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced he has introduced an amendment to the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act that would prohibit funds from being used for the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity. The Commission, created by a Presidential Executive Order in May, is tasked with investigating the prevalence of voter fraud in the 2016 election despite the fact that numerous studies have shown that in-person voter fraud is virtually non-existent. In just its first weeks of operation, the Commission made a sweeping request for detailed voter information for every registered voter in America, appearing to lay the groundwork for a push to place new restrictions on voting that disproportionally disadvantages minority voters. “This commission is an effort to validate the President’s repeated and baseless claim that millions of fraudulent ballots were cast in the 2016 election, and I fear it lays the groundwork for new efforts to make it more difficult to vote across the country,” Rep. Schiff said. “Congress should put an end to this charade before it can do additional damage by agreeing to this amendment, and we should instead enact measures that make voting more accessible for all eligible Americans.” The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act allocates funding for government programs for Fiscal Year 2018. The bill will be considered by Congress in September.
08.30.17	08.30.17 Rep. Schiff Introduces Amendment to Prohibit Expenditure of Secret Service Funds to Businesses Owned by First Family Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced he will be introducing an amendment to the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act that would prohibit the payment of Secret Service funds to entities owned or operated by the President or his immediate family. According to USA Today, the President and his family’s frequent visits to locations owned by the Trump Organization have put an unprecedented strain on the Secret Service’s budget and manpower. Based on General Accountability Office (GAO) estimates of comparable travel from previous administrations, each visit to a Trump Organization location by the President and his family costs an estimated $3 million. Much of this money is paid to the Trump Organization itself, including a substantial amount for the rental of golf carts – at an estimated cost of $60,000 to taxpayers - and other expenses necessary for security. “The immense honor and responsibility of serving as President of the United States should never be exploited for profit or personal gain,” said Rep. Schiff. “That the Trump Organization is profiting off the Secret Service is an abuse of taxpayer money and an improper method of enrichment.” The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act allocates funding for government programs for Fiscal Year 2018. The bill will be considered by Congress in September.
08.28.17	08.28.17 Rep. Schiff Introduces Amendment to Protect DREAMers Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced he will be introducing an amendment to the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act that would prohibit any funds to be used for the deportation of individuals granted deferred action under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, the "DREAMers." Since the creation of DACA, more than 750,000 young undocumented immigrants have been granted work permits and deportation relief. Approximately one quarter of all DACA recipients live in California. “For many DREAMers, America is the only home they’ve ever known, and deporting these young people would be cruel and wrong,” Rep. Schiff said. “Hundreds of thousands of young people enrolled in the DACA program because they believed in the promise of America and were assured protection from deportation. This amendment will ensure that we keep our promise to these young people.” The Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act allocates funding for government programs for Fiscal Year 2018. The bill will be considered by Congress in September. Press Contact Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced he will be introducing an amendment to the Departme <
07.27.17	07.27.17 Schiff-Wilson Bill Restricting Tourist Travel to North Korea Passes Committee Washington, DC – Today, the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific marked up and reported the North Korea Travel Control Act (H.R. 2372), introduced by Rep. Schiff and Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), to the full committee. This bill would instruct the Secretary of State to restrict the use of U.S. passports for travel to North Korea when the primary purpose is tourism, and require all travelers to notify the State Department of their travel and seek prior approval. This latest action in the House comes just over a month after the tragic death of Otto Warmbier, an American college student who was imprisoned by North Korea for seventeen months. “Given the increased belligerency and provocations by the North Korean regime, this legislation is all the more important now, and I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee understands the urgency to move this legislation forward," said Rep. Schiff. "The tragic death of Otto Warmbier, tantamount to the murder of a U.S. citizen by North Korea, should heighten our resolve to ensure that no more American citizens are endangered or used as bargaining chips by this pariah state. I look forward to continuing to work with stakeholders in Congress to pass it into law.” “I’ve visited North Korea on a Congressional delegation in 2003 led by former Congressman Curt Weldon who had been invited after Baghdad had been liberated, getting the attention of the dictator,” said Rep. Wilson. “While there, I saw firsthand how every dollar in North Korea, including the revenue from tourism, goes towards the subjugation of the citizens and towards the very weapons development program it uses to threaten the United States. Additionally, the regime also has no reservations about using illegally detained Americans as bargaining chips in an attempt to score credibility on the world stage. It is past time that we restrict travel to this communist, totalitarian regime, and I am grateful that the legislation overwhelmingly passed the subcommittee. I appreciate Chairman Ted Yoho for scheduling this markup, and hope it is considered before the whole House soon. It is past time that we impose meaningful travel restrictions, while still providing humanitarian exemptions, to North Korea.” In late May, Schiff and Wilson introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act. At least seventeen Americans have been detained in the past ten years, despite the State Department strongly warning U.S. citizens against traveling to the DPRK. Currently, at least three Americans remain imprisoned. With heightened tensions between the United States and North Korea, the danger that additional Americans will be detained for political reasons has increased. In addition to security concerns, Western visitors bring with them much needed foreign currency, especially valued in a country facing extensive international sanctions for its illegal nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs. Last week, the State Department indicated its intention to issue regulations restricting travel by Americans to North Korea.
07.26.17	07.26.17 Rep. Schiff on Trump’s Transgender Military Ban: "Ugly and Wrong" Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Vice Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus, released the following statement: "In February, President Trump made an unequivocal promise to the LGBT community to maintain existing federal non-discrimination protections. With his announcement this morning, Trump has reneged on his promise to the American people by disallowing transgender people to serve 'in any capacity' in the U.S. military. Simply put, Trump's anti-transgender pronouncement is ugly and wrong because discrimination is never patriotic; allowing all who love this country to serve, is. "The LGBT community has fought for decades to achieve basic nondiscrimination protections and I was proud of the progress made under the Obama Administration, which introduced a policy that would allow transgender individuals to openly serve in the military. The decision followed a study by the nonpartisan RAND Foundation finding that allowing transgender people to serve openly in the military would have no effect on readiness. The announcement by President Trump puts politics and catering to his extreme base ahead of the best interests of the military or basic principles of fairness and decency. "This decision is an affront to the estimated 15,000 transgender people currently serving in the United States Military. LGBT Americans have made countless contributions to our nation's security and they deserve our respect and appreciation. I will join with my colleagues to use every tool at our disposal to reverse this baseless decision."
07.21.17	07.21.17 Rep. Schiff Statement on Reported Implementation of Travel Restrictions to North Korea by State Department Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the sponsor of the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act released the following statement: "I am pleased it appears the State Department will be implementing travel restrictions prohibiting US citizens from using their passports to visit North Korea. After the horrific treatment of Otto Warmbier, only the latest American detained by the regime, limiting US travel is unfortunately sensible and necessary. I introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act earlier this year, which would also accomplish such a prohibition and hope the legislation will be marked up prior to the August recess."
07.20.17	07.20.17 Rep. Schiff Introduces Constitutional Amendment to Overturn Citizens United Amendment Would Allow Reasonable Limits on Donations and Option for Public Financing for Candidates Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United and increase regulation of campaign contributions and spending. In 2010, the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision struck down decades of restrictions on corporate campaign spending and allowed corporations to spend unlimited funds to run campaign advertisements. “The Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United overturned decades of legal precedent,” Schiff said. “The regulatory process is at a standstill as we watch billions of dark money pour into elections. While amending the Constitution is an extraordinary step, in this case the damage to our democratic process by unrestrained and anonymous spending by wealthy individuals and corporations requires it.” The Amendment makes it clear that the Constitution does not restrict the ability of Congress or the States to propose reasonable content-neutral limitations on campaign contributions and independent expenditures to protect the integrity of our democracy. It is a concise statement of this principle, and provides: "Nothing in this Constitution shall be construed to forbid Congress or the states from imposing reasonable content-neutral limitations on private campaign contributions or independent election expenditures." The Amendment also allows – but does not require – public financing of campaigns when states like Arizona choose to enact such laws. It reads: "Nor shall this Constitution prevent Congress or the states from enacting systems of public campaign financing, including those designed to restrict the influence of private wealth by offsetting campaign spending or independent expenditures with increased public funding." In November 2016, California voters passed Prop 59, a ballot measure that called on California’s elected officials to work towards overturning Citizens United and increase regulation of campaign contributions and spending. There are 16 original co-sponsors of the Amendment.
06.30.17	06.30.17 Rep. Schiff Sends Letter of Concern to U.S. Forest Service over Contract Changes to Firefighting Helicopters Letter Questions Implications for Angeles National Forest as California Enters Peak Fire Season Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), sent a letter to U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell expressing concern over the decision by the Forest Service to change six Type 1 firefighting helicopters from “exclusive use” contracts to “call when needed” contracts, including a helicopter based in Lancaster, CA. “As we enter peak fire season in Southern California, I would like to know the implications of this decision on readiness and speed of response in the event of a fire, since as you are well aware, the speed of response can be the difference between a destructive wildfire and a controlled event,” Schiff wrote in the letter. Schiff’s letter was sent as half a dozen fires currently burn in Southern California. The fires stretch from San Luis Obispo County in the north to Camp Pendleton in the south and Riverside County in the east. Full text of the letter is below: June 30, 2017 Chief Tom Tidwell USDA Forest Service 1400 Independence Ave, SW Washington, DC 20250-1111 Dear Chief Tidwell: I am writing to express my concern over the decision by the Forest Service to change six Type 1 firefighting helicopters from “exclusive use” contracts to “call when needed” contracts, including a helicopter based in Lancaster, CA. As we enter peak fire season in Southern California, I would like to know the implications of this decision on readiness and speed of response in the event of a fire, since as you are well aware, the speed of response can be the difference between a destructive wildfire and a controlled event. Ensuring that the Forest Service has access to all resources at its disposal, at all times, is of the utmost importance to me and my constituents. While I understand that the Type 1 helicopter based in Lancaster, CA will remain stationed in Lancaster, the change from an “exclusive use” contract to “call when needed” raises a number of questions: Will the Type 1 helicopter be available at all times in the event of a fire event in the Angeles National Forest? If the helicopter will not be available at all times, what is the longest time period it will take to call up the helicopter and complete the process to activate it for a mission in the Angeles National Forest? Will the Type 1 helicopter based in Lancaster be used in other parts of the country, and if so, how would this hinder the Forest Service’s ability to fight fires in Los Angeles County? Is there a potential for the helicopter to be located outside of Southern California and not be available for use in Los Angeles County? I respectfully request you respond to these questions pertaining to the availability of Type 1 helicopters to responders, as well as address the general readiness of the Forest Service. Thank you for your time and attention to this important matter. I appreciate your consideration of my questions, and I look forward to working with you to improve the Forest Service’s firefighting efforts. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress
06.22.17	06.22.17 Rep. Schiff Reintroduces Legislation to Reform Residential Treatment Programs Nationwide SCARPTA Includes Strong Anti-Discrimination Protections For LBGT Youth And Youth With Mental Illness Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) reintroduced the Stop Child Abuse in Residential Programs for Teens Act (SCARPTA), a bill to hold residential treatment programs accountable to a set of minimum health and safety standards, including strong anti-discrimination protections for LBGT youth and youth with mental illness. The bill will also crack down on offenders who attempt to move abusive facilities across state lines by requiring all states to improve their licensing and oversight processes, and help families weed out bad programs by requiring they publicly disclose their licensing status and any history of violations. “There are hundreds of good residential treatment programs that provide services which can truly help youth recover and transition from serious behavioral problems or traumatic experiences,” Rep. Schiff said. “But without stronger federal regulation and oversight, programs that engage in abusive practices will continue to slip through the cracks, leaving behind traumatized and abused children and families.” Residential treatment programs have existed for several decades as a last resort treatment option for children with serious mental health issues. Families opt for these programs when in need of more assistance than traditional inpatient mental health services or intermediate therapy programs can provide. Many residential treatment programs have successfully helped children and adolescents with severe behavioral problems, drug and alcohol addiction, and rehabilitation from a traumatic experience. But in 2008, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) documented over 1,300 reports of maltreatment by staff at programs spanning across 34 states, including substantiated accounts of starvation, excessive use of physical restraints and isolation, severe verbal abuse and intimidation, and neglectful medical practices. The GAO made clear that the lack of federal oversight and patchwork of state regulations has failed to properly license and monitor residential facilities which put an already vulnerable population of children at higher risk for abuse, and even death. “Abusive facilities that operate under the guise of providing real therapy have no place in our society and families who turn to residential programs for help, often as a last resort, deserve to know that their children are safe and in the care of professionals,” Rep. Schiff said. SCARPTA is based on a bill championed by Rep. George Miller (D-CA) before his retirement. Miller’s bill passed the House twice but was not signed into law. Schiff’s legislation would: Prohibit all programs from withholding food, water or shelter from a child, putting a child in seclusion, and all other forms of physical and mental abuse Require licensed medical staff on hand at all times in case of an emergency and require all staff members to be properly trained in recognizing and responding to signs of child abuse and neglect, and mental health crises Allow youth to stay in contact with their parents so that they know their children are safe, and provide uninhibited access to a child abuse reporting hotline Publicly disclose any past record of child abuse and their state licensing status so families can make informed decisions about where to send their children Prohibit programs from using anything other than safe and evidence-based treatment -- meaning that any form of junk science such as conversion therapy or electric shock would be banned in these programs SCARPTA is backed by a large coalition of child-serving, mental health and disability rights, and LGBT-rights organizations. "It is long past time for the federal government to follow California's lead and finally regulate the for-profit, ‘Troubled Teen’ industry,” said Lorri L. Jean, CEO of the Los Angeles LGBT Center. “Many of these facilities and camps commit horrible physical, mental and sexual abuses under the guise of disproven and harmful conversion therapy for LGBT youth. Sometimes these ‘therapies’ even result in death. No purported religious affiliation -- often claimed by these camps -- excuses such atrocities. We commend Representative Schiff for his continued efforts to protect all young people including some of the most marginalized youth in our country.”
06.22.17	06.22.17 Rep. Schiff Sends Letter Urging Department of Education to Continue Grant Preference for Promise Zones The Promise Zone Program Gives Federal Grant Preference to 22 High Poverty Communities in the U.S., Including Los Angeles Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), sent a letter to Department of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos urging the Department to continue giving competitive preference priority to Promise Zone communities in the Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17) Promise Neighborhood competition, and other Department of Education programs where preference for Promise Zones is given. “Thanks to its Promise Zone designation, the Los Angeles Promise Zone has been able to invest $290 million in federal funding from 15 federal agencies into place-based education, workforce and economic development, housing, health and wellness, and public safety programs, improving the quality of life for residents and helping to break the cycle of poverty,” Rep. Schiff said. “We are concerned that federal agencies, including the Department of Education, will no longer give this preference to Promise Zone areas that apply for federal grants. DOE must reaffirm that it will continue to give grant preference to Promise Zone communities, like the Los Angeles Promise Zone in my district, because they rely most heavily on these federal grants and would be most affected.” The Los Angeles Promise Zone includes East Hollywood and Hollywood in Rep. Schiff’s district. It is one of 22 high-poverty communities in urban, rural, and tribal regions around the nation that received the Promise Zone designation under the previous administration. Under the program, Promise Zone areas can receive priority preference on competitive federal grant applications. The Promise Zone Community Program has helped high-poverty communities work with the Federal Government and local entities to attract private investment, improve affordable housing and educational opportunities, create jobs, reduce serious and violent crime, and assist local leaders in navigating federal programs and cutting through red tape. The full text of his letter is below: June 22, 2017 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary U. S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: I am writing to urge the Department of Education to continue to give competitive preference priority to Promise Zone communities in the Fiscal Year 2017 (FY17) Promise Neighborhood competition, and other Department of Education programs where preference for Promise Zones is given. The Promise Zone program targets high poverty communities in urban, rural, and tribal communities for preference in grant programs, and has begun to make a difference in the 22 communities awarded the designation around the nation. The Promise Zone Community program, begun in 2014, is an important initiative that allows high-poverty communities, including one located in my district, to work with the Federal Government and local entities to attract private investment, improve affordable housing and educational opportunities, create jobs, reduce serious and violent crime, and assist local leaders in navigating federal programs and cutting through red tape. The City of Los Angeles has worked tirelessly to develop innovative partnerships and best practices to support this model. Using its Promise Zone designation, the Los Angeles Promise Zone has been able to invest $290 million in federal funding from 15 federal agencies for place-based education, workforce and economic development, housing, health/wellness, and public safety programs, improving the quality of life for residents and helping to break the cycle of poverty. Specifically, funding from the Department of Education’s Promise Neighborhood program has helped transform 26 low-performing schools in the Los Angeles Promise Zone, while providing support for students and their families. In 2015-2016, graduation rates at 10 Promise Neighborhood high schools rose to 86.1%, up 5.6 percentage points from the previous year. For the first time, schools in the Los Angeles Promise Zone achieved a higher rate than California as a whole (83.2%). Los Angeles as well as the 21 other Promise Zone communities in 19 states and territories are demonstrating the progress we can make if we concentrate our efforts. I strongly urge you to extend priority preference to any applications from Promise Zone areas that may apply to the Promise Neighborhood program and other programs for the FY17 and future fiscal years. Thank you for your time and attention to this important matter. Please do not hesitate to contact my office with any questions you may have regarding this issue. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress
06.22.17	06.22.17 Schiff-Wilson Bill Restricting Tourist Travel to North Korea Will Move Forward in House Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Joe Wilson (R-SC) announced that they had received a commitment from House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA) to mark up their bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act, which would require the Treasury Department to issue regulations requiring a license for travel to, from, and within North Korea by American citizens, and ban tourist travel by Americans. This new action in the House comes after Otto Warmbier, a college student who was imprisoned by North Korea, tragically passed away days after being returned to his family after a period of captivity. The Schiff-Wilson bill is expected to be considered in Committee in the coming weeks. “Time and time again, the North Korean regime has shown that it will treat Americans who visit their nation as hostages to extract concessions from the United States, and put their lives in danger. The tragic death of Otto Warmbier, which is tantamount to the murder of a U.S. citizen by North Korea, brings further into focus the need to go beyond simply warning Americans not to visit this pariah state,” said Rep. Schiff. “I’m pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee is moving expeditiously to take up our bill, which would place meaningful and effective limits on the travel of Americans to this pariah state, and ban tourist travel entirely.” “The tragic murder of Otto Warmbier at the hands of the North Korean government has made it clear that it is past time that we restrict tourist travel to communist, totalitarian North Korea,” said Rep. Wilson. “I am grateful that Chairman Ed Royce has committed to marking up this important legislation soon, and look forward to having it debated in the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Every penny that goes to the brutal regime is used in the subjugation of its own people and unlawful detention of American citizens. By cutting off this source of income we can protect American families and deny the regime hard currency.” Late last month, Schiff and Wilson introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act. At least seventeen Americans have been detained in the past ten years, despite the State Department strongly warning U.S. citizens against traveling to the DPRK. Currently, at least three Americans remain imprisoned. With heightened tensions between the United States and North Korea, the danger that additional Americans will be detained for political reasons has increased. In addition to security concerns, Western visitors bring with them much needed foreign currency, especially valued in a country facing extensive international sanctions for its illegal nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.
06.21.17	06.21.17 Rep. Schiff, Colleagues Send Letter to State Senate Urging Passage of Bill Divesting Public Pensions from Turkish Government Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and nine of his Congressional colleagues from California sent a letter to California State Senate President Pro Tempore Kevin De León in support of California Assembly Bill 1597, which would divest California’s public pension funds from investment vehicles that are owned, controlled, or managed by the Turkish government. “California has acted in the past to prohibit new investments by its pension funds in sectors that are inimical to our state’s values, such as the 2015 state law mandating divestment from coal companies,” the Members wrote in the letter. “The narrowly drafted AB 1597 proposal is an appropriate use of that authority, blocking future investments directly owned by the Turkish Government, such as government bonds.” Rep. Schiff sent the letter along with Jackie Speier (CA-14), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Salud Carbajal (CA-24) and Jim Costa (CA-16). “Given the recent assault on peaceful protestors in Washington, D.C. by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s personal security forces, as well as Turkey’s continued denial of the Armenian Genocide, divestment by California is an appropriate response,” the Members wrote. AB 1597 passed the California State Assembly on June 1st by a vote of 67-0. Full text of the letter is below: June 19, 2017 The Honorable Kevin de León California State Senate President Pro Tempore State Capitol, Room 205 Sacramento, CA 94249 Dear Mr. President: We write to voice our strong support for AB 1597, which would divest California’s public pension funds from investment vehicles that are owned, controlled, or managed by the Turkish government. This legislation passed the Assembly on June 1st by a vote of 67-0. Given the recent assault on peaceful protestors in Washington, D.C. by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s personal security forces, as well as Turkey’s continued denial of the Armenian Genocide, divestment by California is an appropriate response. We hope that the State Senate takes up and passes this legislation as soon as possible. As you are aware, the once dynamic and relatively open Turkish democracy has slid towards authoritarian rule by President Erdogan. With the recent passage, beset by voting irregularities, of a constitutional referendum, Erdogan has amassed dictatorial powers. Turkey has become the world’s leading imprisoner of journalists, suppressed free speech, and has engaged in a brutal campaign to stamp out political dissent. They have recently brought that campaign to the United States. On May 16th, members of Erdogan’s security detail brutally attacked a peaceful protest outside of the Turkish Embassy, causing serious injuries. Videos show Erdogan speaking to his security forces immediately prior to the attack, and observing from a distance as his armed security beat peaceful protestors. The House of Representatives recently passed H. Res. 354 unanimously, condemning this assault and calling on the Administration to hold Turkey responsible and take appropriate actions against those who carried out the attack. Finally, Turkey has engaged in a decades long campaign to deny the Armenian Genocide, expending millions of dollars to lobby against recognition of the historic fact of the extermination of 1.5 million Armenians by the Ottoman Empire from 1915-1923. California has been a leader in the United States in speaking frankly about the genocide, serving as a home for tens of thousands of Armenian-Americans whose families survived the genocide to build new lives in the United States. California has acted in the past to prohibit new investments by its pension funds in sectors that are inimical to our state’s values, such as the 2015 state law mandating divestment from coal companies. The narrowly drafted AB 1597 proposal is an appropriate use of that authority, blocking future investments directly owned by the Turkish Government, such as government bonds. The investments make up a small portion of the pension funds’ holdings, and reallocating these resources in an orderly fashion will have no measurable impact on their fiduciary duties. We hope that the Senate acts quickly on AB 1597, and that it can be signed into law as soon as possible. Sincerely,
06.07.17	06.07.17 Rep. Schiff Speaks Against Violent Assault on Peaceful Protestors by Erdogan’s Thugs Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) spoke on the House floor about the full-fledged assault by professional thugs against peaceful protestors outside the Turkish Ambassador’s residence last month in Northwest Washington, DC. “We will not allow Turkey to beat innocent protestors on the streets of our nation's capital,” Rep. Schiff said. “We will continue to pursue justice, and to make clear that America will always stand up for the right of peaceful and free expression.” The protestors came from a variety of backgrounds but shared a common concern about developments in Turkey, including the crackdown on political opposition and free speech in that country and Turkey’s continued denial of the Armenian Genocide. The violent confrontation left 11 people injured, two of whom required hospitalization. Rep. Schiff’s full remarks as prepared are below: Mr. Speaker, on May 16th a group of peaceful protestors gathered at a public park outside the Turkish Ambassador’s residence in Northwest Washington, DC. They came from a variety of backgrounds - Armenian, Kurdish, Ezidi, and more. But they shared a common concern about developments in Turkey, including the crackdown on political opposition and free speech in that country and Turkey’s continued denial of the Armenian Genocide. About a mile away, Turkey’s President Tayyip Erdogan was received warmly by President Trump at the White House, with no mention of Turkey’s human rights abuses and growing authoritarianism. The protestors felt, rightly so, that they had to exercise their First Amendment rights and raise their voices in dissent - the very dissent which has been violently squelched by Erdogan in his own country. What happened next was a chaotic and violent confrontation that left 11 people injured, two of whom required hospitalization. Tensions were already high, with pro-Turkish counter-protesters outside the residence scuffling with protesters. When Erdogan and his entourage arrived, the situation quickly spiraled out of control. As he exited his car, observing the protests, Erdogan can be seen on video speaking briefly to his security detail, and soon thereafter, several of these men, some of them armed with handguns, rushed past DC police officers to violently confront protestors, causing severe injuries. The images are indelible and bloody. A Kurdish woman was put in a chokehold, and told by the dark-suited man who attacked her that he was going to kill her. Protesters, men and women alike, were knocked to the ground and assaulted with kicks to the face and torso. This was not a “scuffle,” it was a full-fledged assault by professional thugs on a peaceful protest. Such scenes have become common in Turkey, where state sponsored violence and repression have become the chief instrument to cement Erdogan’s power. Selahattin Demirtas was until recently the leader of the Kurdish HDP party, and whom I had the honor to meet two years ago, now sits in prison as prosecutors seek to sentence him to 143 years of confinement. Turkey has become the world’s leading jailor of journalists, most recently adding French photojournalist Mathias Depardon, held in solitary confinement and without charge, to the ranks of the 81 journalists currently imprisoned. Mr. Speaker, Erdogan cannot export the violent repression he visits on his own citizens to our streets. The violence of May 16th cannot go unanswered or forgotten. Yesterday, the House unanimously passed H.Res. 354, condemning the attacks and calling on the Administration to pursue justice and hold those who carried them out responsible, whether they be Turkish or not. That is a good start, but it cannot be the end. The DC police department is carrying out an investigation into the attacks, and ultimately they will require cooperation from Turkish authorities in identifying those responsible. Nothing that Turkey has done so far indicates that cooperation will be forthcoming, and indeed rather than show even the slightest contrition after their security forces assaulted Americans, authorities in Ankara instead summoned the US ambassador to lodge a complaint against the United States and police officers who sought to keep the peace. The message from Turkey is clear as day: We can do as we please, whether at home to our citizens or on your own American soil. Mr. Speaker, I stand here today to affirm that we will not allow Turkey to beat innocent protestors on the streets of our nation's capital. We will continue to pursue justice, and to make clear that America will always stand up for the right of peaceful and free expression.
06.02.17	06.02.17 Rep. Schiff Announces Appointment of Local Students to U.S. Service Academies Record Number of Appointees from CA-28 Burbank, CA - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that eight students from California’s 28th District have been appointed to the U.S. Service Academies Class of 2021. This is the highest ever number of students to receive appointments from Schiff’s district. The eight impressive appointees come from a diverse set of backgrounds and include five women and three men. "Each student appointed to a Service Academy this year demonstrated excellence in academics and extracurricular activities and a profound commitment to serving our country,” Schiff said. “These students will receive a distinguished military education and many will become the leading defenders of our democracy. I have no doubt that this impressive group of students will make our community – and our country – proud.” The following students received appointments this year: Air Force Academy: Andrew Hyunwoo Ka is attending the Air Force Academy Preparatory School. Andrew graduated from Crescenta Valley High School. Naval Academy: Caitlin Patricia Argueta is a Glendale resident attending the Naval Academy Preparatory School. Caitlin graduated from Herbert Hoover High School. Claire Marie Garcia is a Glendale resident attending Clark Magnet High School in La Crescenta. Juliana Johana La France is a Burbank resident attending the Naval Academy Preparatory School. Juliana graduated from Burbank High School. Merchant Marine Academy: Sean de Moura is a Tujunga resident attending the Advantage Preparatory School in Santa Clarita. Shannon Glory Snyder is a Tujunga resident attending John H. Francis Polytechnic High School in Sun Valley. Military Academy - West Point: Elijah Parrott is a Burbank resident attending Burbank High School. Claire Mie Dano Yanai is a Glendale resident attending Glendale High School. Every year, Congressman Schiff nominates qualified and accomplished local students for admission to the U.S. Service Academies. The four academies requiring a Congressional nomination are the Air Force Academy, the Naval Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, and the Military Academy at West Point. The fifth is the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, and does not require a Congressional nomination. Students who attend one of the five academies receive a free college education at a highly-ranked, nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing for an officer's commission in the Armed Forces. Students interested in applying to a Service Academy for the Class of 2022 should call Congressman Schiff’s District Office at 818-450-2900 or (323) 315-5555 or click here to learn more.
06.01.17	06.01.17 Reps. Schiff, DeFazio, DelBene Send Letter to POTUS Criticizing Elimination of West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System President Trump’s FY2018 Budget Eliminates Critical Federal Funding for ShakeAlert Pasadena, CA – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA) sent a letter to President Trump expressing grave concern that the White House eliminated funding for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system in its Fiscal Year 2018 budget request. “Thanks to federal funding and a sizeable contribution from the state of California last year, the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system is on track to be available to the public on a limited basis next year,” the Members wrote in their letter. “To cut off the funding now will take us backwards and deprive American citizens and businesses along the West Coast of an invaluable tool to protect themselves and their property.” The United States Geological Survey (USGS) has been developing the system in conjunction with Caltech, UC Berkeley, the University of Oregon and the University of Washington. Eliminating funding for the long-planned ShakeAlert system would threaten life, property, and critical infrastructure on the West Coast. The full text of their letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We would like to convey our grave concerns with the decision to eliminate funding for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system in your Fiscal Year 2018 budget request. This relatively inexpensive and proven technology will save lives, prevent injuries, and reduce the economic impact of an earthquake. Support for the system has been sustained and increasing over the past few years. Congress appropriated $5 million for the system in FY15, $8.2 million in FY16, and $10.2 in FY17, demonstrating a growing, bipartisan appreciation for the system’s utility. A major earthquake on the West Coast could cause billions of dollars in damage and endanger countless lives. Earthquake Early Warning is a cost-effective investment to protect critical infrastructure, including utilities and manufacturers, from the damage caused by a major earthquake. Earthquake Early Warning technology has been deployed for years in other nations including Japan and Mexico. Thanks to federal funding and a sizeable contribution from the state of California last year, the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system is on track to be available to the public on a limited basis next year. To cut off the funding now will take us backwards and deprive American citizens and businesses along the West Coast of an invaluable tool to protect themselves and their property. We will be working to ensure that the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system continues to receive crucial federal funding, because investing in this technology now could save lives when a large earthquake strikes, and we would welcome your support for this critical project in the future. Sincerely, Adam Schiff (CA-28) Member of Congress Peter DeFazio (OR-04) Member of Congress Suzan DelBene (WA-01) Member of Congress
05.25.17	05.25.17 Schiff, Wilson Introduce Bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act Legislation Would Restrict Travel To, From and Within North Korea by American Citizens WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Congressmen Adam Schiff (CA-28) and Joe Wilson (SC-02) introduced the bipartisan North Korea Travel Control Act, which would require the Treasury Department to issue regulations requiring a license for transactions related to travel to, from, and within North Korea by American citizens. It also provides that no licenses may be issued for tourist travel. “In recent years, there has been an increase in tourist travel to the DPRK by citizens of Western countries, including the United States,” Rep. Schiff said. “With increased tensions in North Korea, the danger that Americans will be detained for political reasons is greater than ever. Given North Korea’s continuing destabilizing behavior and their demonstrated willingness to use American visitors as bargaining chips to extract high level meetings or concessions, it is appropriate for the United States to take steps to control travel to a nation that poses a real and present danger to American interests.” "Tourist travel to North Korea does nothing but provide funds to a tyrannical regime—that will in turn be used to develop weapons to threaten the United States and our allies, as I saw firsthand on a rare visit to Pyongyang,” Rep. Wilson said. “Worse, the regime has routinely imprisoned innocent foreign civilians and used them as bargaining chips to gain credibility with the West. We should not enable them any longer—which is why it is critical to carefully regulate travel to North Korea.” In the past, North Korea has shown a willingness to use American prisoners to seek diplomatic concessions, including securing visits from former U.S. Presidents and cabinet officials. At least seventeen Americans have been detained in the past ten years, despite the State Department strongly warning U.S. citizens against traveling to the DPRK. Currently, at least four Americans remain imprisoned. In addition to security concerns, Western visitors bring with them much needed foreign currency, especially valued in a country facing extensive international sanctions for its illegal nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programs.
05.23.17	05.23.17 Schiff, Bishop Praise House Passage of Bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act WASHINGTON D.C. – On Monday evening, Congressmen Adam Schiff (CA-28) Mike Bishop’s (MI-08) bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act of 2017 (CPIA), H.R. 695, passed the House by voice vote. CPIA ensures youth-serving organizations in every state can access FBI background checks for prospective staff and volunteers. “When parents send their children to after-school programs, sports camps, or for mentoring, they should be able to trust that their children are in good hands,” Rep. Schiff said. “An FBI background check is the gold standard, and I believe that’s what we should strive for when it comes to protecting children, seniors, and individuals with disabilities who are put in potentially vulnerable situations. The passage of CPIA will ensure that every child serving organization in America has access to the most comprehensive and effective background check possible. I’m pleased it has passed the House and hope that we can see it signed into law in the near future.” “As a father of three, I know there is nothing more important than our children’s safety,” Rep. Bishop said. “When they participate in camps and afterschool activities, parents deserve to have full peace of mind that their kids are in good hands. Youth-serving organizations across America agree, and they want to ensure they are hiring the best possible employees and volunteers. The bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act makes that possible by addressing gaps in the current system – so every youth-serving organization in America can access the gold-standard of background checks. The FBI database is the most efficient way for these organizations to crosscheck potential hires across state lines, and improving access to this resource is another common-sense way to keep bad actors out. I applaud the House for passing this legislation to keep kids safe.” Specifically, the Child Protection Improvements Act would: Ensure organizations that serve children, the disabled, and the elderly all across the country have access to FBI fingerprint searches in a timely and affordable manner; Protect privacy rights by ensuring that the specifics of a criminal record are never disclosed without explicit consent by the volunteer or employee and providing an opportunity for individuals to correct errors in their records; It does NOT authorize any new spending. The program will be supported by the fees assessed for background checks by the requesting nonprofit organizations; It does NOT require organizations to utilize FBI fingerprint background checks, only makes them available to those wishing to utilize them. The bipartisan bill passed with 45 co-sponsors in the House. The bill has also garnered support from 34 national organizations, including: American Camp Association Big Brothers, Big Sisters of America Boys and Girls Clubs of America Girl Scouts of the USA MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership Mentoring USA National 4-H Council National Network for Youth National Summer Learning Association National Center for Missing and Exploited Children National PTA YMCA of the USA
05.17.17	05.17.17 Reps. Schiff and Marino Introduce Bipartisan Vaccines Save Lives Resolution Resolution Emphasizes Importance of Vaccinations and Immunizations in the U.S. Washington D.C. - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Tom Marino (R-PA) introduced the bipartisan Vaccines Save Lives resolution (H. Res. 327), recognizing the importance of vaccines and immunizations in the United States. The resolution sends a message of unequivocal Congressional support for vaccines and urges parents, in consultation with their health care provider, to follow scientific evidence and the consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccination for the well-being of their children and surrounding communities. “The scientific and medical communities agree – vaccines are both safe and effective and there is no evidence to suggest that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases,” said Rep. Schiff. “Vaccines have saved millions of lives worldwide and prevented suffering for millions more. The importance of vaccinating your children cannot be overstated.” “Vaccines have been proven to be safe and are an important tool in fighting the spread of disease and saving countless lives,” Rep. Marino said. “This resolution reaffirms my support for the use of vaccines for our children to ensure that they can grow up and live healthy and prosperous lives.” The Vaccines Save Lives resolution rejects unfounded and debunked theories about the dangers of vaccines and recognizes that scientifically sound education and outreach campaigns about vaccination and immunization are fundamental for a well-informed public. The resolution is endorsed and supported by leaders in the medical community, including the American Medical Association, Adult Vaccine Access Coalition, Children’s Hospital Association, Every Child By Two, and March of Dimes. The full text of the resolution is below: A resolution to recognize the importance of vaccinations and immunizations in the United States. Whereas the contributions of Louis Pasteur and Edward Jenner to the discovery of the principles of vaccination and immunology are among the most consequential health findings in human history; Whereas vaccines have made it possible for the world to have eradicated smallpox, saving approximately 5 million lives annually, and for the international community to be on the brink of eradicating polio and to have saved an estimated 5 million people from this incurable disease over the past 2 decades, Whereas vaccines have dramatically reduced the spread of many more crippling and potentially life-threatening diseases such as diphtheria, tetanus, measles, mumps, and rubella, and vaccines prevent the spread of commonly infectious and potentially fatal diseases such as chickenpox, shingles, influenza, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, meningococcal disease, pneumococcal, rotavirus, and whooping cough (pertussis); Whereas the scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe, and the dissemination of unfounded, and debunked, theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health, and scientifically-sound education and outreach campaigns about vaccination and immunization are fundamental for a well-informed public; Whereas an estimated 43,000 adults and 300 children die annually from vaccine-preventable diseases or their complications in the United States, and the health and livelihood of young children, seniors, individuals with immunodeficiency disorders, and those who cannot be vaccinated, is particularly compromised by communities with low vaccination rates; Whereas substantial research has shown that vaccination is a highly cost-effective form of preventive medicine, and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimates that vaccinations will save nearly $295 billion in direct costs and $1.38 trillion in total societal costs in the United States; Whereas vaccines in the United States undergo exhaustive safety testing before they are licensed by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and are monitored for adverse events after health care providers begin administering them to patients. There are currently three post-marketing surveillance systems in the United States tracking adverse events after vaccination. Whereas it is estimated that vaccinations will prevent more than 21 million hospitalizations and 732,000 deaths among children born in the last 20 years, and that more than 100 million children all over the world are immunized each year and vaccines have saved an estimated 2.5 million children annually; Whereas one in five children worldwide still lack access to even the most basic vaccines and as a result, an estimated 1.5 million children a year die from vaccine-preventable conditions such as diarrhea and pneumonia or suffer from permanently debilitating illnesses; Whereas a strong investment in medical research to improve existing vaccines and develop many more life-saving vaccines is beneficial to all, both at home and abroad, and a robust immunization infrastructure is essential to the public health and well-being of the people of the United States by preventing and isolating outbreaks of contagious diseases where they start; Whereas encouraging high vaccination rates in the United States protects our citizens from contracting vaccine-preventable diseases that are pandemic in countries with low vaccination and immunization rates; Whereas routine and up-to-date immunization is the most effective method available to prevent the infection and transmission of potentially fatal diseases; Whereas the United States has been a leader in promoting vaccinations around the world through U.S. Agency for International Development, the Center for Disease Control, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, UNICEF, the World Health Organization, and a host of other multilateral and non-governmental organizations; Therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) Commends the international community, global and domestic health organizations, the private sector, school and community leaders, and faith-based organizations for their tireless work and immense contributions to bolstering our global and domestic health through vaccination; (2) Affirms vaccines and immunizations save lives and are essential to maintain the public health, economic and national security of the people of the United States; (3) Recognizes that the lack of vaccination can cause a true public health crisis, and that there is no credible evidence to show that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases in healthy children or adults; (4) Encourages a continued commitment to research to improve vaccines and to develop new vaccines against other infectious and fatal diseases, and (5) Urges parents, in consultation with their health care provider, to follow the scientific evidence and consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccinations to protect their children and their community. ###
05.04.18	05.04.18 Rep. Schiff Announces Winners of the Congressional Art Competition Burbank, CA – Last night, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) hosted the annual 28th Congressional District Art Competition Forum and Exhibit in Van De Kamp Hall at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge. During the exhibit, attended by more than 200 students, teachers and parents, Schiff announced that Jennifer Bae’s acrylic painting “Have a Slice” won first place and will be included in the nationwide Congressional Art Competition: An Artistic Discovery, in Washington, D.C. Her artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, alongside winners from other Congressional Districts across the nation. Jennifer attends Crescenta Valley High School, lives in La Crescenta and is in the 12th grade. Additionally, Schiff announced that Abrielle Marsden’s acrylic painting “Perception” and Alejandra Santana’s photograph “Sunny Light Up” won second and third place, respectively, and their artwork will be displayed in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, DC Office and his Burbank District Office. Abrielle attends Burbank High School, lives in Burbank and is in the 11th grade, and Alejandra attends John Burroughs High School, lives in Burbank and is in the 12th grade. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Vilen Manukyan for his graphite and acrylic artwork, “Path Behind the Glory.” Vilen attends the Village Christian School, lives in Sunland and is in the 11th grade. Vilen’s artwork will be displayed in Rep. Schiff’s Hollywood District Office. Over 3,000 constituents voted in the “People’s Choice” online contest this year. “Each year, it is an honor to see young artists from our community showcase their talent,” said Schiff. “Every student involved in this competition deserves recognition, and I hope they will continue to enrich our community with their artwork. I want to congratulate this year’s winners, Jennifer, Abrielle, Alejandra and Vilen. I look forward to viewing their art this year in my offices and in the Capitol building!” This year, the judges serving on the panel to award the different prizes included Kellye Nakahara Wallett, David Warren, and Patricia Peréz. Kellye Nakahara Wallett is a well-known watercolor artist who is also known for her role as “Nurse Kellye” in the television series “M*A*S*H.” David Warren is a former member of the Board of Trustees of the Hollywood Arts Council, a nonprofit organization that promotes, nurtures and supports the arts of Hollywood. Patricia Peréz is a multi-media artist and Board Member of the Elysian Valley Arts Collective. There were 43 students representing 19 schools in the 28th Congressional District this year. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition from Congressman Schiff. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. To see a photo of Congressman Schiff with the winners and their artwork, click here. ###
05.04.17	05.04.17 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on Passage of TrumpCare Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after voting no on the American Health Care Act, which would dismantle the Affordable Care Act: “Today I voted no on the American Health Care Act, or TrumpCare. This ill-considered bill would reduce the number of insured Americans by at least 24 million, eliminate essential health benefits, increase costs for older Americans and women, and deny care for countless Americans with a preexisting condition. And all of this is being done to fund tax breaks for wealthy families. The House Majority drafted this bill behind closed doors and rushed it to a vote without analysis from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, because they know CBO’s verdict on how many millions will lose their access to care will be devastating. “Speaker Ryan pulled this bill from a vote in March after a public outcry. Rather than go back to the drawing board to draft a bill that improves on the progress of the ACA, the Administration decided instead to cater to the extreme elements of their caucus. This bill keeps the same damaging policies in the first bill and adds an amendment that allows states to discriminate against the 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions. “House Republicans had to pull out all the stops to pass a bill this bad, but make no mistake, the fight isn’t over. A large majority of Americans know that this bill will hurt their families and millions of others, and they’re counting on us to fight for continued access to healthcare for all.”
04.27.17	04.27.17 Rep. Schiff Introduces Authorization for Use of Military Force Against ISIS, al Qaeda and the Taliban – “Congress Must Debate and Vote on Any New War” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, introduced a new Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) against ISIS, al Qaeda, and the Taliban. He was joined by nine of his Democratic colleagues. The Authorization introduced by Rep. Schiff would sunset the 2001 AUMF and 2002 AUMF immediately and replace them with a single authorization for the use of force against al-Qaeda, ISIS and the Taliban. The resolution would sunset in 3 years. It authorizes the President to deploy combat ground troops against the covered entities without geographical restriction; however it also provides a special mechanism to allow a privileged motion to repeal or modify the authorization in the event the President deploys ground forces in combat. Finally, it would put in place new reporting requirements both to Congress and to the public as to how the authorities are used and against what groups. “For far too long, Congress has abdicated its constitutional responsibility to authorize military action abroad, effectively ceding the war-making power to the executive branch,” said Schiff. “More than 15 years later, our operations against groups as diverse as the Taliban in Afghanistan, al Qaeda in Yemen, and ISIS in Syria are authorized under a 60 word authorization passed days after the attacks. As deployments to Iraq and Syria increase, and with complicating factors like the recent cruise missile strike against the Assad regime in response to the use of chemical weapons, Congress cannot stand on the sidelines any longer and must debate and vote on any new war. Congress must demand of this Administration and future Administrations the legal justifications for any military action, and hold them accountable for those actions.” For many years, Rep. Schiff along with other members has pushed Congress to sunset the 2001 AUMF and to debate and vote on a new authorization. In light of the increased troop presence in Syria and Iraq and recent attacks by both the Taliban and ISIS in Afghanistan, a new AUMF that reestablishes Congress’ vital role is critical. A new AUMF, guided by principles that are responsive to the war we are fighting today, will provide clear authority to the President and Armed Forces for the campaign against ISIS, al Qaeda and its affiliates, and the Taliban. It will also send a message of unity to our military forces and strengthen the international coalition to defeat these enemies. A nearly identical resolution circulated by Rep. Schiff last year received praise from observers across the legal spectrum, including Jack Goldsmith, former head of the Office of Legal Counsel under President George W. Bush, as well as law professors Steve Vladeck and Jen Daskal, and Marty Lederman. Just this week, Schiff and Senator Tim Kaine sent a letter to President Trump asking that he detail the legal basis for the strike against the Shayrat airbase in Syria on April 6th, which has yet to be provided to Congress and the American people. The legislation was introduced by Schiff with Reps. Andre Carson (D-IN), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), and Tim Walz (D-MN) as original co-sponsors.
04.25.17	04.25.17 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual 2017 Student Art Competition with Online Voting for “People’s Choice” Winner Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he will host the annual Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit for the 28th District, featuring students’ artwork from the 28th Congressional District, on Thursday, May 11, 2017. The Congressional Art Competition receives submissions from all across the country. The winner from each Congressional District has their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. This year, 54 students from 24 schools located in the 28th District participated in the competition. In addition, for the last several years, Rep. Schiff hosts a “People’s Choice” award, which will be decided through an online vote. To vote for the “People’s Choice,” constituents should go to Rep. Schiff’s website under Art Competition. Voting will be open Wednesday, April 26 through Friday, May 5, 2017. “I am continually blown away by the talent and creativity displayed in the artwork that is submitted from students around the District each year, and this year is no exception,” said Schiff. “I look forward to seeing all of these incredible entries in person and welcoming artists and their families to celebrate their accomplishments. I am equally excited to see who our community members choose as their own 'People’s Choice' pick – so don’t forget to visit my website and vote!” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide the opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. The first place winner’s artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, the piece awarded second place will be displayed in the Congressman’s Washington, D.C. Office for one year, the piece awarded third place will hang in his Burbank District Office for one year and the “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will be displayed in Rep. Schiff’s Hollywood District Office. The winners of the contest will be announced at the 28th Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit on Thursday, May 11, 2017. All student participants will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition. The exhibit will be held at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge at Van de Kamp Hall located at 1418 Descanso Drive, La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011. Parking and admission to Van de Kamp Hall are free. Exhibit viewing will begin at 5:00 pm and the Forum and Awards Presentation will take place at 7:00 pm. Light refreshments will be served. To RSVP, please contact Teresa Lamb Simpson in Rep. Schiff’s Burbank District Office at (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555.
04.25.17	04.25.17 Congressman Schiff Honors 2017 Women of the Year Los Angeles, CA– On Saturday, April 22, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honored the 2017 Women of the Year at a luncheon in Echo Park. These inspiring women come from communities in the 28th Congressional District –West Hollywood, Burbank, Pasadena, Silver Lake, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Los Feliz, Sunland/Tujunga, Glendale, La Cañada Flintridge and La Crescenta. This recognition is made each year during Women’s History Month. “This remarkable group of women demonstrate the truth of the maxim that if you need something done, ask a busy person,” Rep. Schiff said. “Each has worked tirelessly to support a myriad of charitable, business and community causes, and made an indelible mark on our region. I’m honored to recognize these women and show appreciation for their extraordinary work in our community.” Below is a full list of this year’s honorees: Holly Hampton (Echo Park), Marlene Hitt (Sunland/Tujunga), Anne-Marie Johnson (Silver Lake), Phyllis Kim (Glendale), Lena Kortoshian (La Crescenta), Camille Lombardo (Pasadena), Betty Porto (La Cañada Flintridge), Christine Rodriguez (Elysian Valley), Noemi Torres (West Hollywood), Amanda Truelove Fairey (Franklin Hills/Los Feliz), Karen Volpei-Gussow (Burbank), Amy Yanow (Hollywood Hills), and Netty Carr (Atwater Village). These honorees come from all backgrounds and professions and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our communities. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks to recognize women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff presented and entered a special tribute into the Congressional Record for each woman (below). A Tribute to Holly Hampton – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Holly Hampton of Echo Park, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Holly Hampton has been a resident of Echo Park for many years, calling this historic neighborhood and community home since 1989. Ms. Hampton currently serves as Vice President of the Echo Park Historical Society’s Board of Directors, which preserves and promotes the neighborhood’s architectural and cultural heritage. Holly also serves as Chair of the Historic Echo Park Home Tours. Ms. Hampton, a professional graphic designer, has been recognized for her involvement in numerous community design projects. Most notably, she participated as a judge for the Echo Park Community Parade’s children’s art contest for the past six years, and has designed installations for the Echo Park Historical Society. She received recognition from the City of Los Angeles at the Echo Park Farmers’ Market’s 10 year anniversary for her work with Katrina Alexy, an artist, on the creation of the market logo. In 2001, Ms. Hampton purchased a home in Echo Park, and became active in the development of her local neighborhood watch, which included neighbors on Grafton Street, Lemoyne Street, Effie Street, Lake Shore Avenue and Lobdell Place. She also began partnering with the Los Angeles City Council 13th District Office to organize staircase street clean-up events in an effort to help maintain the public staircase located on her street. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Holly Hampton. A Tribute to Marlene Hitt – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Marlene Hitt of Sunland, California. A lifelong Sunland resident and consummate volunteer, Marlene has been active in many organizations in the Sunland-Tujunga community. She has been a member of the Sunland-Tujunga Neighborhood Council for many years, serving in various leadership roles and on many committees. Marlene has been a dedicated and devoted member of the Little Landers Historical Society (LLHS), a non-profit organization founded in 1959 to preserve Bolton Hall, a 1913 historic stone building in Tujunga that was the Tujunga City Hall and the hub for many community activities up until the late 1950’s when it was saved from destruction. The LLHS subsequently collects, preserves and displays records, artifacts and landmarks of the history of the Sunland-Tujunga area and people active in that history in the Bolton Hall Museum. For nearly three decades, Ms. Hitt has capably and enthusiastically served the LLHS and Bolton Hall Museum as Museum Director, Docent Director, Boardmember, Archivist and Docent. In addition, Marlene and her husband Lloyd, were very involved in the successful effort to obtain historic designation for a portion of the Verdugo Hills Golf Course, where a World War II detention center for Japanese-Americans was located. A well-regarded writer, Ms. Hitt is a longtime member of the Chupa Rosa Writers of Sunland-Tujunga and the Foothills, and has authored anthologies, readings, poetry chapbooks, a non-fiction book: “Sunland-Tujunga, from Village to City, and has written articles for many newspapers. Along with other community members, Marlene co-founded the Sunland-Tujunga Poet Laureate program, where she was honored to serve as its first Poet Laureate. Married for sixty-one years, Marlene and Lloyd have two children, two grandchildren and one great grandchild. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Marlene Hitt. A Tribute to Anne-Marie Johnson – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Anne-Marie Johnson of Silver Lake, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Born in Los Angeles, Anne-Marie Johnson has been a lifelong Silver Lake resident, and graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles. Since 2011, she has served as an At-Large Representative on the Silver Lake Neighborhood Council. In this capacity, she has co-chaired town hall meetings and has served as co-chair of the Governmental Affairs Committee. Ms. Johnson is a familiar face in motion pictures and television. She has starred in numerous television series such as Melrose Place, In Living Color, In the Heat of the Night, and for a few seasons, she appeared on JAG, portraying Congresswoman “Bobbi Latham.” In addition, Anne-Marie has appeared on Days of Our Lives, Chasing Life, Hunter, The X-Files and CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, and most recently in Pretty Little Liars, Castle, Grey’s Anatomy, Major Crimes, and NCIS: Los Angeles. Anne-Marie Johnson has an impressive list of feature film credits, in addition to the remarkable roles she has had in many television series. She has appeared in Strictly Business, Robot Jox, Pursuit of Happiness, True Identity, and Sister Code among others. For many years, Ms. Johnson served as a Screen Actors Guild National Board officer, and served as the Screen Actors Guild’s first vice president for four terms. In 2016, she received the Screen Actors Guild Ralph Morgan Award, and was the first African American to receive this award since the inception of the honor in 1981. In 2017, Anne-Marie received the Rosa Parks Legacy Award from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, in recognition of her tireless efforts in the community. In addition, Ms. Johnson has volunteered with the Los Angeles Police Department, where she co-created, co-produced and co-directed a series of public service announcements called “Obey The Rules Of The Road” to bring attention to traffic safety. Anne-Marie has been married to Martin Grey since 1996. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Anne-Marie Johnson. A Tribute to Phyllis Kim – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Phyllis Kim of Glendale, California. Phyllis Kim received her Bachelor of Arts Degree and an Interpretation & Translation Certificate from the University of California, Los Angeles. Currently, she is a court interpreter in the Korean language in Los Angeles. For years, Ms. Kim has been very active with the Korean American Forum of California, which is dedicated to bringing public attention and recognition to the “comfort women” of World War II. From 1932 until the end of World War II, over 200,000 women and girls throughout Asia, many of them kidnapped, threatened, or lured from their homes under false pretenses, were forced into sexual slavery by the Imperial Armed Forces of Japan. Ms. Kim continues to raise awareness about these women, known as “comfort women,” and also works toward receiving a formal recognition and an apology from Japan for its past war crimes of sexual slavery by its military, and to prevent wartime crimes against women as well as children. Through the dedicated efforts of Ms. Kim and the Korean American Forum of California, the “comfort women” statue was built in Glendale, California. Phyllis makes every effort to visit the statue as often as she can to honor the Halmoni. Phyllis lives in Glendale with her husband of nine-years, Roy Hong. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Phyllis Kim. A Tribute to Lena Kortoshian – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Lena Kortoshian of La Crescenta, California. Ms. Kortoshian attended California State University, Northridge, where she received a Bachelor’s Degree in Mathematics, and a Master’s Degree in Leadership and Policy Studies. For many years, Ms. Kortoshian has been a pillar of education and an avid supporter of our youth. Lena’s career in education began in 1986, when she was working as an instructional assistant at an elementary and a middle school in the Glendale Unified School District. Since then, she has served in many capacities, including as a mathematics teacher at Glendale High School and Clark Magnet High School, Assistant Principal of Herbert Hoover High School, and a Mathematics Administrator at the Los Angeles County Office of Education. Lena has also served as Assistant Principal and Associate Principal of Clark Magnet High School, and is currently Principal of the school. Lena has always dedicated her time and efforts to ensure the success of her students. She served as a volunteer math tutor with the Committee for Armenian Students in Public Schools, a non-profit organization that addresses both the educational and social needs of immigrant children in public schools, and continues to tutor students after school, giving special attention to each student she helps. Lena is also a Member of the Board of Regents of Prelacy Armenian Schools - a board which is appointed by the Prelate and Executive Council of the Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church of America. Over the years, Lena has received recognition for her contributions to the community, such as the Armenian American Chamber of Commerce’s “Friend of the Armenian Community” award. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Lena Kortoshian. A Tribute to Camille Lombardo – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Camille Lombardo of Pasadena, California. Camille has a Bachelor of Arts in Theology degree from Pitzer College and a Master of Business Administration from Pepperdine University. For twenty-five years, Camille has admirably served as Executive Director of the Friends of the Observatory (FOTO), the non-profit organization that supports the world-renowned Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles. During this time, Ms. Lombardo has not only raised tens of millions of dollars for the Observatory, but has also been a leader in assisting with the development, planning and execution of key Observatory initiatives. During her tenure, she spearheaded the funding effort of the public-private partnership with the City of Los Angeles for the observatory’s ninety-three million dollar expansion and renovation project, raising over twenty-five million dollars of that in private funding and working with local, state and federal agencies to secure public funding. Ms. Lombardo has continued to raise millions of dollars for upgrades in the ten years to the observatory. These include the planetarium show production capability, theater projection and sound systems, and the ability to record and broadcast live astronomical observations and special events, thus greatly expanding its audience both world-wide and at the observatory itself. In addition, Camille raises funds for the observatory’s school program for fifth-graders which serves 25,000 mostly-public school students annually, and Bus Scholarship program for disadvantaged schools, resulting in free school programs. A consummate professional, Ms. Lombardo capably guides FOTO with its thousands of members and many activities, and works effortlessly with the City of Los Angeles and the observatory staff on policy issues, building improvements, and major events organization and implementation. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Camille Lombardo. A Tribute to Betty Porto – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Betty Porto of La Cañada Flintridge, California. The success of the Porto family stems from humble beginnings in Manzanillo, Cuba. After Fidel Castro’s violent revolution erupted in Cuba in the 1950’s, Raul, Sr. and his wife, Rosa requested permission to leave the country. As they waited for approval, both Raul, Sr. and Rosa were dismissed from their jobs. To support their three children, Betty, Raul, Jr., and Margarita, Rosa, a talented baker, refined her recipes and started selling her cakes to neighbors and friends. The Porto family’s request to leave the country was eventually approved, and they entered the United States in the early 1970’s. In the United States, they opened a bakery in the Echo Park area of Los Angeles that quickly flourished, and Betty Porto, in addition to her siblings, was there to lend a helping hand. Betty Porto attended John Marshall High School in Los Angeles, and simultaneously worked at the family’s bakery, Porto’s Bakery & Café, taking care of the front of the house since she loved interacting with people and enjoyed customer service. Her mother, who valued the importance of receiving a higher education and credits a large part of her success to having a Bachelor’s Degree, influenced Betty’s love of learning. Upon graduating from high school, Betty received a Bachelor’s Degree and a Master’s Degree in Political Science from California State University, Los Angeles, and the University of California, Los Angeles, respectively. Her goal was to attend law school, but she quickly changed her mind as spending time with her family at the bakery had awakened her passion for the family business, and she wanted to support her parents, keeping in mind all the sacrifices they had made to give her a better life. Over the years, Ms. Porto and her siblings became increasingly involved in the community by supporting many worthwhile organizations, including Glendale Healthy Kids, American Red Cross, Glendale police and fire departments, and the Alex Theatre to name a few. For the past seven years, Betty has been a staunch supporter of Union Rescue Mission, donating the remaining food from Porto’s Bakery & Café at the end of each day. She also gives tours of Porto’s Bakery & Café to culinary students, to show them first-hand, out of the classroom setting, how to run a bakery, and has even hired some of these students to work at Porto’s Bakery & Café. Betty and Rick, her husband of twenty-five years, have two daughters. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Betty Porto. A Tribute to Christine Rodriguez – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Christine Rodriguez, of Elysian Valley, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Christine has spent many years of her life serving her community through her work as a librarian and through volunteering. She was the Children’s Librarian at the East Los Angeles County Library, and then became a volunteer at that library, leading the Summer Reading Program. Since 1994, Ms. Rodriguez has worked for the City of Burbank’s libraries, and is currently Supervising Librarian at the Buena Vista Branch Library. A consummate volunteer, Christine has been active at Dorris Place Elementary School, running school book fairs, fundraising and participating in the parent support organization. She is a graduate of the Leadership Burbank program, where she assisted with fundraising for Monterey High School in Burbank, and was active in the John Burroughs High School Boosters, where she raised money for the water polo team. Ms. Rodriguez served as Secretary and Treasurer of the Elysian Valley Neighborhood Council, chairing the Neighborhood Purposes Grants Committee, utilizing her longtime city employment knowledge. Her current volunteer organizations include serving as a member of the Elysian Valley Fruit Share, where excess fruit from neighborhood gardens is given to residents without gardens, attending a variety of neighborhood community meetings, and as a member of the Elysian Valley Art Collective where she raised funds for two of the annual Frogtown Artwalks. In addition, Christine is an art quilter whose artwork has been displayed at the Cactus Gallery in Elysian Valley. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Christine Rodriguez. A Tribute to Noemi Torres - 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Noemi Torres of West Hollywood, California. Noemi Torres immigrated to the United States from Guadalajara, Mexico at the age of 13. After some time in Seattle, Washington, she came to Los Angeles and now calls West Hollywood home. Ms. Torres came to California, as many do, to pursue her dreams. While she has a passion for photography and acting, she found herself working with a successful startup telecommunications company, and it was while at that company, that she was exposed to the real estate industry. Now Noemi is on the Modern Living LA team of the John Aaroe Group Sunset, where she uses her considerable talents to help her clients with their real estate needs. Along with her incredible professional accomplishments, Ms. Torres has also shown herself to be an astoundingly capable community leader. She volunteers for Project Angel Food, AIDS Walk Los Angeles, the Revlon Run/Walk, Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, Heal the Bay, and the Downtown Women’s Center. Noemi especially shines in her advocacy in her two terms on the City of West Hollywood Women’s Advisory Board, which she currently chairs. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Noemi Torres. A Tribute to Amanda Truelove Fairey – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman Amanda Truelove Fairey of the Franklin Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Amanda Truelove Fairey is a co-founder and partner with her husband, Shepard Fairey, in the creative agency Studio Number One, the art and project space Subliminal Projects Gallery, and the online store Obey Giant/The Art of Shepard Fairey; all based in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los Angeles. Ms. Truelove Fairey became a vocal advocate for research advancements through the MS Hope Foundation, after her own diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis in 2013. She also believes in the importance of arts and music education for all, through her work with Art of Elysium and the Silverlake Conservatory of Music. Ms. Truelove Fairey currently sits on the board of the Library Foundation of Los Angeles and was the 2016 Chair of the foundation’s annual fundraiser, The Young Literati Toast. Funds raised at the Toast support Adult Literacy Services, a vital program of the library that breaks the cycle of low literacy throughout Los Angeles with one-on-one tutoring, self-directed and online practice, and group classes. In 2016, Ms. Truelove Fairey and her husband founded Make America Smart Again, an organization that encouraged voter education and registration during the 2016 election season. It has evolved from a call to action into a movement that empowers citizens to stay engaged and informed about social issues. Make America Smart Again has partnered with a variety of non-profit organizations including Rock the Vote, The Young Literati, and Vote Detroit to continue its mission in building a coalition of a well-informed citizenry. Ms. Truelove Fairey enjoys family time with her husband, Shepard and their two wonderful daughters, Vivienne and Madeline. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Amanda Truelove Fairey. A Tribute to Karen Volpei-Gussow – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Karen Volpei-Gussow of Burbank, California. For over twenty years, Ms. Volpei-Gussow has symbolized the tireless and dedicated work of a true pillar of her community. She has given of herself with joy, humility, and grace and, along the way, has changed so many lives for the better in Burbank. Her kind and relaxed demeanor is not only evident in her treasured relationships with her husband Barry, her family and friends, but also in her charitable work in the community. Ms. Volpei-Gussow has brought her incredible talent, insight, time, and energy to numerous boards and special committees over the years. She currently sits on the Boards of the Burbank Chamber of Commerce, City of Burbank Heritage Commission, Burbank Arts for All, Burbank on Parade, Burbank Business Partners, and Keller Williams Agent Leadership Council. She serves on committees for the Providence Saint Joseph Foundation Emergency Service Campaign, Boys and Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley, Burbank Temporary Aid Center, and Family Service Agency of Burbank. Her past community involvement includes Ambassador Chair of the Burbank Chamber of Commerce, Docent at the Burbank Historical Society’s Gordon R. Howard Museum, and Board Member of both the Kids Community Dental Clinic and The Burbank Association of REALTORS, Community Service Foundation. Ms. Volpei-Gussow’s charitable and professional work has not gone unnoticed as she was awarded 2012 “Realtor of the Year” by the Burbank Association of REALTORS and named “Community Leader of the Year” at the Boys and Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley 2013 Gala Dinner. Ms. Volpei-Gussow rarely says no when asked to give a helping hand, and once given, her level of leadership, support, and generosity never waivers. She is a community leader who is unafraid of challenging the ways things were done in the past as she looks towards the future with a bold new plan to make the organizations she is involved with and the City of Burbank grow and thrive. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Karen Volpei-Gussow. A Tribute to Amy Yanow – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Amy Yanow of the Hollywood Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Amy Yanow has always had a passion for community. After a career in real estate development, she obtained a Master of Business Administration from the Anderson School of Management at UCLA and combined her love of community with her love for small businesses. As co-owner of two of the most notable craft beer destinations in Southern California, Mohawk Bend in Echo Park and Tony’s Darts Away in Burbank, Ms. Yanow has found innovative ways to incorporate her desire to support community and her passion for locally sourced products and services. Ms. Yanow formalized sourcing guidelines which focus on procuring products that celebrate Los Angeles and California local farming. Charitable giving is built into every level of Ms. Yanow’s restaurant strategy from menu offerings to marketing efforts. She believes in personal outreach to build lasting and meaningful relationships with her community. On behalf of Mohawk Bend, Ms. Yanow has partnered with thirty local non-profits to achieve fundraising and awareness of community-based initiatives in her backyard. Machine Project, 826LA, Echo Park Recreational Center, Echo Park Parenting and Education, Sandra Cisneros Academy, Fire Station 20 Echo Park, Echo Park Community Parade, Edendale Branch Library, and Food Forward are a few of the beneficiaries of her generosity. Under her guidance, Tony’s Darts Away has supported community-based initiatives in the City of Burbank by providing funds to the Family Service Agency of Burbank, the Beagle Freedom Foundation, and Keep-A-Breast Foundation to name a few. Ms. Yanow and her husband, Tony Yanow, have shown great dedication to the non-profit organization River LA and its mission to unlock the potential and beauty of the Los Angeles River’s fifty-one miles. From late 2015 until February 2016, the Yanows led a public matching grant campaign to raise funds and awareness for the creation of the community-oriented recreation areas and green spaces along the river. Ms. Yanow was deeply involved in the fundraising drive by creating a public awareness campaign through personal outreach and building a comprehensive social media strategy that ultimately accomplished the fundraising goal of $500,000. Ms. Yanow is a treasure to her community and an inspiration to all who know her. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Amy Yanow. A Tribute to Netty Carr – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Netty Carr of Atwater Village, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Netty Carr was born in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, and has been a resident of Atwater Village for many years. A successful small business owner, Ms. Carr founded Netty’s Restaurant in 1987 in Silver Lake, serving comfort food to customers until 2007. Over the years, Ms. Carr has dedicated her time and efforts to better her community. She is an avid supporter of green space, the environment, and historic preservation. Most notably, in 1999, Netty spearheaded the Coalition to Save the Van de Kamp’s bakery building on Fletcher Drive, because a developer had plans to demolish the building to build a “big box” store. Through the hard work and commitment of Ms. Carr and the Coalition, which was comprised of 23 community groups, they succeeded in saving this historical building. Ms. Carr co-founded Friends of Atwater Village, a non-profit organization, where volunteers work together with the common goal of improving Atwater Village, and promoting and preserving the local history. From neighborhood clean-ups to mural projects, two of which Netty personally funded, Netty’s dedication to improve the community through beautification projects is nothing short of extraordinary. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Netty Carr. ###
04.25.17	04.25.17 Congressman Adam Schiff and Senator Tim Kaine Send Letter to President Trump Asking for Legal Basis of Syria Strike Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Intelligence Committee, and Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA), a member of the Senate Armed Services and Senate Foreign Relations Committees, sent a letter to President Trump asking that he detail the legal basis for the strike against the Shayrat airbase in Syria on April 6th, which has yet to be provided to Congress and the American people. Schiff and Kaine stated that a full understanding of the domestic and international legal basis for the strike is of great importance to Congress in exercising its constitutional responsibilities. As the letter states, “By articulating a legal basis for military action, as well as laying out a strategic vision for such action, a president provides a justification for the use of the momentous power to commit American lives to a cause, but also an understanding of the limits of those powers.” Both Schiff and Kaine believe that Bashar al-Assad must be held accountable for his atrocities and war crimes, but have argued that the missile strikes on the Syrian regime without congressional approval were unlawful. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We write regarding the April 6 strike against the Shayrat military airbase in Syria. We share your horror at the chemical weapons attack on civilians carried out by the Syrian regime in Idlib province on April 4. This horrific act, in contravention of international law as well as human decency, is only the latest brutality visited upon the Syrian people by the Assad government, and its Russian and Iranian patrons. It has now been over two weeks since you ordered the strike on the airfield, and your Administration has yet to put forward any detailed legal analysis or justification for that action under domestic and international law. While the Administration provided a notification to Congress, consistent with the requirements of the War Powers Resolution, that notice simply asserted that the strike was ordered, “Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct foreign relations and as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive.” The notification further informed Congress and the public that you might order, “Additional action, as necessary and appropriate, to further important national interests.” These assertions of authority do not provide Congress with the information it needs to exercise our constitutional responsibilities. Nor do they provide comfort to a public that fears deeper involvement in a horrific civil war at a time when the U.S. troop presence in the region is already increasing. The legal justification for an attack on the Syrian government is not an afterthought, but rather a first order consideration, and something that is vital for the American people to understand at the outset. The need for a fulsome explanation of your war making power under these circumstances is all the more necessary as tensions rise in the Korean Peninsula, with the suggestion that a preemptive military strike or a retaliatory strike against North Korea are among the options "on the table." While the President has the authority to use force to defend our service members and allies from an imminent threat, a preemptive strike could easily spiral into a full-fledged war with a nuclear-armed adversary. It is precisely because the decision to go to war is such a momentous one for any nation that the Constitution provides Congress alone with the power to declare war. President Obama took an expansive view of the President’s Article II authority and the scope of the 2001 AUMF. At times, we have been critical of his views, and the Congress for failing to exercise its constitutional duties to authorize and oversee the use of force. Indeed, when the Obama Administration considered launching military strikes against the Assad Regime in 2013, the President asserted independent authority to do so, even though he ultimately made the appropriate decision to seek Congressional approval. However, the Obama Administration, through the publications of analyses by the Office of Legal Counsel, in public speeches by senior administration officials, and statements by the President himself took care to provide the legal basis for his military actions, as well as the limits of those interpretations. By articulating a legal basis for military action, as well as laying out a strategic vision for such action, a president provides a justification for the use of the momentous power to commit American lives to a cause, but also an understanding of the limits of those powers. Accordingly, we ask that you provide a detailed analysis of the legal precedents and authorities supporting the action in Syria, and in particular an explanation of whether this action expands those precedents for action under Article II. We also ask that you instruct senior officials in the White House, Department of Defense, and Department of State to articulate the Administration’s legal rationales for military action on an ongoing basis to better inform the public and Congress. Thank you for your quick action on this request. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Member of Congress Tim KaineU.S. Senator
04.24.17	04.24.17 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on Yom HaShoah Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement: “Today marks Yom HaShoah, the annual day of remembrance and mourning for the six million Jews and the millions of others who perished in the Holocaust. “On this day, we solemnly remember the lives lost, and rededicate ourselves to combatting the hatred and bigotry that gave rise to such dehumanization and horror. We also pay tribute to those who survived the Holocaust, many of whom are alive today because of the courage of average citizens who risked everything to protect friends, neighbors, and strangers from Nazi persecution. We must listen to their stories and pass them on to our children and our children’s children. Only in this way can we ensure that the lessons of the Holocaust – that we must fight against persecution wherever we find it and never be silent – are not lost. “Yom HaShoah tells us that ‘Never Again’ is not a phrase, but a promise, and that we must work ceaselessly to stamp out anti-Semitism, racism, and xenophobia, here at home and around the world.”
04.24.17	04.24.17 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on Failure of President Trump to Recognize the Armenian Genocide Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), sponsor of the bipartisan resolution to recognize the Armenian genocide, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s failure to recognize the Armenian genocide: “Today, we received another disappointing statement from yet another President, refusing to acknowledge the murder of 1.5 million Armenians from 1915-1923 for what it was -- a genocide. President Trump now joins a long line of both Republican and Democratic Presidents unwilling to confront Turkey, and by refusing to do so, he has made the United States once again a party to its campaign of denial. How can we speak with the moral clarity we must about the genocidal campaign by ISIS against religious minorities in Syria and Iraq, if we are unwilling to condemn the first genocide of the last century? If the President will not speak out, the Congress must, and I join my colleagues -- Democrats and Republicans -- in calling on the House to take up the Armenian Genocide resolution.”
03.23.17	03.23.17 Schiff, Trott Introduce Bipartisan Resolution to Recognize Armenian Genocide Washington D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Adam Schiff (CA-28) and Dave Trott (MI-11) introduced legislation to officially recognize the Armenian Genocide of 1915. The Resolution recognizes the genocide against the Armenian people from 1915-1923 by the Ottoman Empire, while drawing links to the modern scourge of genocide, including attacks on religious minorities in Iraq and Syria by ISIS. "Over 100 years ago, the Ottoman Empire undertook a brutal campaign of murder, rape, and displacement against the Armenian people that took the lives of 1.5 million men, women, and children in the first genocide of the 20th century," said Schiff. "Genocide is not a historic relic - even today hundreds of thousands of religious minorities face existential threat from ISIS in Syria and Iraq. It is therefore all the more pressing that the Congress recognize the historical fact of the Armenian Genocide and stand against modern day genocide and crimes against humanity." “After over a hundred years, it is long overdue that the United States government stand in solidarity with the Armenian people to officially recognize the genocide waged against their families a century ago,” said Trott. “I am honored to be able to represent such a vibrant Armenian population in Southeast Michigan and I will continue to fight for them in Congress.” Representatives Adam Schiff and Dave Trott were also joined by the other leaders of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, Representatives Valadao, Bilirakis, Pallone, and Speier in underscoring their support for the recognition of the Armenian genocide. ###
03.21.17	03.21.17 Intel Committee Ranking Member Adam Schiff Speech at Brookings – “The Rise of Autocrats: The Role of Congress in Protecting Liberal Democracy” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, delivered a foreign policy speech at the Brookings Institution – “The Rise of Autocrats: The Role of Congress in Protecting Liberal Democracy.” Below is the speech, as delivered, which can be viewed here: The past months have left all of us reaching – for an understanding of where we are, for a sense of what lies ahead, for a path forward to meet the challenges, and, sometimes, for the right words to describe the unprecedented. As I often like to say, I’m running out of adjectives and expletives. In the two months since Inauguration Day, things that seemed once unthinkable now seem routine. An air of semi-permanent crisis has settled over the nation’s capital, where there is a palpable disquiet that I have never seen in the decade and a half I’ve served in Congress, and I think that disquiet crosses party lines. Consider the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence’s investigation into the Russian Active Measures campaign against the 2016 election. Yesterday morning, the HPSCI held the first of two open hearings this month – the next will be next Tuesday – a hearing in which the Directors of the FBI and NSA stated unequivocally that a startling accusation of illegal wiretapping made by the sitting President against his predecessor was patently false, rebutted another statement the President issued during the hearing as also inaccurate – a rare opportunity to use the directors to fact-check the president in real time – and informed the country for the first time that the President’s campaign personnel were under federal investigation for possible collusion with the Russians. And all this was before lunch. I came to Congress in 2001 and vividly recall the September 11th attacks and the weeks that followed. The tension was palpable back then as well – F-15s patrolled the skies over Washington and the National Guard troops were on the streets of major American cities. But there was also a unity of purpose, and a resolve that together, as Americans, we would confront the scourge of al Qaeda and win. There were prolonged and bitter disagreements in the months and years ahead about how to defeat terrorism, but we were united in identifying the threat and recognizing the need to act. This time is different – despite the unanimous conclusion of the 17 entities that make up the U.S. Intelligence Community that the Russian government sought to sow discord in our political process and undermine the Clinton campaign, there is a seeming hesitancy to dig too deeply into possible collusion between the Trump organization and the Russians, and to ascribe too much to Moscow, lest it call into question the “legitimacy” of the outcome of the 2016 election. As I have been saying for several weeks, I hope that our committee can transcend partisan division and work together in the coming months to produce a report to which we can all attach our names. This is a difficult test for Congress in an era where the legislative process has too often failed to fulfill even its most routine duties. And whether we can meet that test is far too early to say. But I certainly believe that it would be in the country’s interest for us to do so. If, at the end of the day, both parties issue competing conclusions, we will have added very little to the nation’s understand of this attack on our democracy. It is no secret that I do not think that our investigation, or the parallel one being undertaken by our Senate counterparts, should be the last word on this matter. Last December, former Acting Director of the CIA, Michael Morrell, a man who has devoted his life to keeping this nation secure and who has served presidents of both parties throughout his career, told the Cipher Brief that Russia’s interference in the 2016 elections was “the political equivalent of 9/11.” I agree with Mike and I have been pushing for the creation of a 9/11-style commission that will have the time, resources, and charter to undertake a truly comprehensive investigation of what has happened. The Russian attack on our democracy last year was an unprecedented act and it was directed obviously at us and unprecedented in its success. In fact the Russian government and the Soviets before them have long been working to destabilize their European neighbors – perfecting the techniques that were deployed so effectively here last year. While Russia has always devoted enormous intelligence resources towards countering what they refer to as the “Main Enemy,” it has had much greater success in mounting political operations in Europe, especially in Eastern and Central Europe, where there are populations of ethnic Russians or economic ties to Moscow. Many of the same macroeconomic and demographic forces that have buffeted our country in recent years are also present overseas and often to a greater degree. Across Europe, high unemployment, fraying social welfare systems and graying populations are propelling right wing and populist parties. The most consequential manifestation of this populist tide was the Brexit vote in Britain last June. Much as with Hillary Clinton in our own Presidential election four months later, the “remain” campaign was expected to prevail, but instead was overwhelmed by a late surge of older, rural voters – a similar demographic to those who would later propel Donald Trump to victory. In France, Marine Le Pen, the National Front candidate who shares Trump’s hostility to immigrants, skepticism of NATO and affinity for Putin, is expected to make it through the first round of presidential voting and into a two-candidate runoff on May 7. In Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel faces re-election in September, the far-right Alliance for Germany is expected to improve on its previous performance and will probably meet the threshold required to gain seats in the German parliament. The party, founded just four years ago, has been riding a surge of support in reaction to the Merkel government’s 2015 decision to admit large numbers of Syrian refugees. Hungary and Poland, two former Warsaw Pact states that are now members of both NATO and the European Union, are governed by right wing parties that use the power of the state to undermine the judiciary, the press and other pillars of civil society. Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orbán, famously boasted in a 2014 speech that “the new state that we are building is an illiberal state, a non-liberal state.” In Slovakia, another former Soviet satellite, Prime Minister Robert Fico has presided over a steady erosion of the country’s rankings in terms of governance and transparency as he has worked to restrict civil liberties and judicial independence. The antidemocratic tide has even threatened countries renowned for their tolerance, progressivism, and commitment to the democratic path. In the Netherlands, voters last week may have turned back far-right candidate Geert Wilders’ bid to become Prime Minister, but his party increased its seats in Parliament, where it is now the second largest party. Europe’s illiberal parties are not uniform in their platforms, but they are generally nationalistic, hostile to immigrants, and skeptical of the European Union and greater integration. Some, like Bulgaria’s Rumen Radev and France’s LePen and Francois Fillon, the French center-right candidate now charged with embezzlement, openly embrace Vladimir Putin and call for easing sanctions against Moscow. Others, including Polish Prime Minister Beata Szyd?o, are committed to retaining membership in NATO and the EU. But, all of them, whatever their ostensible position on Russia, serve the Kremlin’s interest by undermining the political order throughout Europe and especially for the EU and NATO. This is not the Cold War and the relationship between European populists and Moscow bears little resemblance to the mostly slavish devotion of European communists in earlier times. Rather, Russia has sought to exploit existing fractures in European societies by means of a simple, but successful recipe that encompasses the following elements: · Economic relationships – some above-board and some otherwise; · Political influence, either direct or through cut-outs like supposedly “independent” media or NGOs; and · Covert influence, such as the acquisition and dumping of emails, personal information and other documents that could be damaging or embarrassing to one party or another, a phenomenon that I call the “weaponization” of information. A report issued by the Center for Strategic and International Studies last October on Russian influence in Central and Eastern Europe identified these tactics as elements “of Russia’s doctrine of New Generation Warfare, which is ‘primarily a strategy of influence, not of brute force’ and its primary goal is break[ing] the internal coherence of the enemy system- and not about its integral annihilation.” The objective is simple: to arrest and reverse European integration, to push NATO back from Russia’s borders, and, to the extent possible, recreate Soviet-era influence in Moscow’s Near Abroad. The Russians have been using these types of tactics for decades going back to Soviet times, and analysts on both sides of the Atlantic expect their “active measures” campaigns to continue. In the next few months, France and Germany will hold national elections and authorities in both Paris and Berlin are bracing for a wave of hacking and dumping, as well as the dissemination of misinformation in hopes of unseating Angela Merkel and boosting the fortunes of Marine LePen. Whether Putin succeeds will depend in no small measure on whether, and to what extent, the people of Europe recognize the Russian actions for what they are and respond accordingly. Some early indications, including the Dutch elections I mentioned a few minutes ago, would seem to lend credence to the theory that European electorates, now that they have seen it happen here, will be better able to repel the Kremlin’s attempts to influence their own decision-making. But alert voters do not guarantee that Putin will fail. As I mentioned earlier, Trump benefited from Russia’s active measures in spite of the fact that public speculation centered on Russian intelligence from the moment that the first DNC emails began to surface in the days before the Democratic National Convention last July. Ensuring that the assault by Russia and others on democracy does not succeed must now take its place among the first rank of foreign policy issues – a docket that is already overwhelming and not likely to get any more manageable in the foreseeable future. We – and here I am referring to the international community of democracies – have a duty to act in concert to protect the electoral process in France and Germany and in other countries where Russia or other antidemocratic regimes are working to subvert elections and distort internal dialogue. As the birthplace of modern democracy and its great champion, the United States must lead this effort, but the sense among allies and others is that this is a role that our new President neither desires, nor considers a priority for the United States. Several weeks ago, I accompanied Senator John McCain and a bipartisan delegation from both Houses of Congress to the annual Munich Security Conference, which brings together several hundred senior policymakers and experts. The panels at this year’s gathering focused on the challenge to the West, to NATO, and to democracy itself. But there was really only one question on everybody’s mind in Munich that weekend– where is America? On the stage and in the hallways, everybody wanted to know why the new President and his team have so suddenly, and with so little forethought, abandoned America’s traditional place as the leader of the world’s democracies. That sentiment has only intensified in the weeks since and when Chancellor Merkel visited the White House at the end of last week, much of the commentary on both sides of the Atlantic echoed Politico’s headline: “The Leader of the Free World Meets Donald Trump.” While in Munich, I attended a small dinner organized by Irish rocker and global humanitarian Bono – that’s one of the advantages of traveling with John McCain, a dinner with Bono and Bill Gates, that’s pretty sad company really. I actually have a bone to pick with Bono – no one man should have that much talent because it leaves a lot less for the rest of us. He’s not only a brilliant musician, and obviously a world class philanthropist, but he speaks like a poet. And after he was done discussing efforts that he and others are making to end extreme poverty and preventable diseases, he affectingly reminded my colleagues and me when he said something really precious about America. He said: “I’m very proud to be Irish, I’m very proud of Ireland. But Ireland is just a country, America is also an idea.” As an American, hearing Bono’s words, and those of a parade of world leaders visiting the White House – Canada’s Justin Trudeau, Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny, and, most recently, Chancellor Merkel – who have pointed out and pointedly reminded the President of America’s proud heritage as both the Land of Opportunity and as a sanctuary for those in peril. This has been both remarkable and humbling. And it has impressed upon me the damage that his Executive Orders are doing to our international reputation, separate and apart from the damage to our national security. In 1990, former President Ronald Reagan traveled to Westminster College, the site of Winston Churchill’s famous “Iron Curtain” speech to keynote the dedication of a Cold War Memorial constructed from eight sections of the Berlin Wall, which had come down only the year before. Towards the end of his remarks, Reagan addressed the students directly: He said: “I received a letter just before I left office from a man. I don't know why he chose to write it, but I'm glad he did. He wrote that you can go to live in France, but you can't become a Frenchman. You can go to live in Germany or Italy, but you can't become a German, an Italian. He went through Turkey, Greece, Japan and other countries. But he said anyone, from any corner of the world, can come to live in the United States and become an American.” That essence of renewal and rebirth has always been at the heart of what America means to the world. It is why governments and hundreds of millions of ordinary people around the globe are so concerned. And if we are to restore America’s place as guardian of democracy and the American President as the leader of the free world, we must begin with a repudiation of this ill-conceived and odious order and the indiscriminate crackdown on undocumented immigrants. Proving once again the unique genius of the Founders, the courts have stepped into the breach to block implementation of both of the President’s immigration orders, but it does not alleviate Congress from our responsibility, as a co-equal branch of government, to look for better, fairer, more humane ways to secure our borders. And if Congress as a whole will not speak out, then my party must. Returning the welcome mat to America’s doorstep is one of a number of steps that Congress can take to turn back the tide of illiberalism abroad and reassert our traditional leadership of the international effort to enlarge the circle of freedom. But, there are others. First, the world’s superpower deserves a first-rate diplomatic and development corps, properly resourced and with the capacity to direct and disburse effective foreign assistance that also advances our national interests around the world. The proposed cuts to the State Department and USAID would fundamentally impair our ability to conduct a range of vital work around the world and must be opposed and reversed. Congress, through the appropriations process, has the power to reject the gutting of our diplomacy and I am confident that we will. Second, the promotion of human rights has always been at the heart of American foreign policy, yet the new Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, did not even bother to show up for this year’s release of the report on human rights, a sharp break with the practice of previous secretaries. I hope that the new Secretary will look for ways to highlight support for human rights going forward. Here, too, Congress has the power to act – to impose sanctions such as those authorized under the Magnitsky Act; by directing or withholding spending; and by using the bully pulpit of the Congress to shine a spotlight on particularly egregious cases, as I and others have been doing for the past decade through the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press. And in this context I think about people all over the world who look to the United States. I think about those young protestors in Tahrir Square before their revolution was hijacked by the Islamists. Many of them now are in prison and others are worried about going to prison, and I think that they must look to the United States and wonder – are we still here? Do they still have an advocate? Do they still have a voice? And if that voice doesn’t come from the White House, it is incumbent on Congress to be that voice. Third, we must respond to manipulation of the media. The creation of actual “fake news,” state-sponsorship of networks like RT in Russia and China’s CCTV, and armies of Internet trolls who help to amplify and spread malign content, are effective tools to undermine democracy and pluralism and keep the West off balance and on the defensive. Rather than slowly starving our international broadcasting programs, which for seven decades have been bringing “real news” and hope to millions trapped by oppression, Congress should dramatically increase our ability to meet the challenge by expanding languages and platforms and ensuring that content is relevant to a contemporary audience. We also need to direct assistance to strengthen independent media in the states along Russia’s frontiers, which are the target of relentless pro-Moscow propaganda. Fourth, we must continue to work with our international partners to share intelligence on attempts to undermine democracy. According to press reports, it was a tip from British intelligence that first alerted our government that Russia was hacking into the DNC, and our best guarantee of success is collective action and constant vigilance. Through the annual Intelligence Authorization Act and our ongoing oversight, this is an area in which the two intelligence committees in Congress can be extremely helpful and I intend to push for additional sharing on Russian activities. Finally, we must reaffirm our commitment to the alliances and international structures that we created in the decades after the Second World War. The UN may be maddeningly imperfect, our NATO partners may not meet their funding commitments, and it may seem that we are on the short end of trade disputes, but the global system that some see as so constraining, is, by and large, an American work product and one that locks in structural advantages for the United States. Congress should reject cuts to the UN and other international organizations and forcefully restate our commitment to NATO and our other allies around the world. These are a few things that we can do outside of our borders to strengthen the general capacity of the West to defeat “active measures” and other hybrid campaigns against our politics, but this is a battle that must also be fought at home. The Russians, and the Soviets before them, have long sought to interfere in our elections. The difference is that this time they succeeded. Perhaps their tradecraft was better and their ability to use WikiLeaks as a conduit to dump thousands of emails directly into millions of homes made the attack more effective. Or, perhaps, we were more vulnerable than we realized to an attack of this sort. For several decades now, since the Watergate era, a range of American institutions, including the press, has fallen dramatically in the eyes of the American people, as has trust in government. The growth of highly partisan media, amplified by megaphones like Fox and Breitbart, have made our politics so tribalized and so focused on zero-sum victories that any expression of bipartisanship is subject to criticism. When we are inclined to believe the absolute worst about each other, is it surprising that an attack comprised of hacked and dumped material that reinforces a pre-existing opinion was so effective? In the short run, Congress can work to institute early warning systems that dictate procedures by which the intelligence community can forward timely notification to the President, the Congressional leadership, and the affected party as soon as a suspected “active measures” attack is detected. We also need to look for ways to more actively engage the public in warning them of the provenance of what they are reading or watching. Much of this effort will have to come from private industry, and Facebook, Google and others are engaged in efforts to combat the plethora of fake news that was disseminated on their sites. Their work is decidedly in our national interest and we should be looking for ways to support it, consistent with our commitment to free expression. We must also do more to harden our political infrastructure to mitigate the chances of intrusions and possible manipulation of state voter rolls, or other data necessary for the conduct of elections. And, clearly no President can allow an attack of this sort to continue without make public attribution and informing the public. I understand the dilemma President Obama found himself in, but his voice would have been critical in ensuring that the full dimensions of the Russian meddling penetrated into the electorate’s consciousness. Ultimately, however, the Russian effort succeeded in its goal of undermining support for Hillary Clinton and in the democratic process more generally because we allowed it to. I have said it twice before this morning, I will repeat it for a third time now, media reports, from the beginning, pointed to Russian involvement; everybody knew what was going on and who was behind it – while it was occurring. When Donald Trump, on July 27, 2016, called on Russia to hack and release Hillary Clinton’s e-mails, he was doing so in response to the nearly universal belief that Russia was behind the dumping of internal DNC communications. Nevertheless, Trump, his campaign, and news outlets from coast-to-coast gleefully pounced on the emails from senior DNC staff and from senior Clinton campaign aide, John Podesta, without much hesitation given how and why it ended up in their hands. Worse still, was the receptivity of huge swaths of the American public to Moscow’s ill-gotten gains. This must never be allowed to happen again. To do that, we must harden our population against these types of attacks and simultaneously work to detoxify our politics. Neither will be easy. We need to prepare the American people to recognize and reject these types of attacks when they occur. Finland, which shares a long border with Russia and has been the target of protracted active measures campaigns going back decades, relies on strong institutions and a well-educated populace as its first line of defense against its enormous neighbor. In the U.S., the state of civics education is woeful and it is an afterthought for many school districts in an era when parents (and many future employers) want a greater emphasis on science and math. That needs to change and America’s schoolkids need to have a much more consistent and detailed exposure to civics all the way from K-12. Not only will it build a population that is less susceptible to manipulation, it will have the added benefit of boosting our embarrassingly low voter participation rate. Finally, no active measures campaign will succeed against a government whose citizens believe that it is serving their interests and discharging its duties honestly. Russia succeeds where there is mistrust and a lack of confidence in government and in other national institutions. That is the case in this country at the moment, and I am reminded almost daily that I am a member of an institution with an approval rating in the low single, maybe the low double digits. The American people see us as ineffective, corrupt, or both and they desperately want us to work together to solve the nation’s problems. When we repeatedly fail to pass appropriations bills; when nominees for senior government posts languish for years in the Senate, or when simple debt extension votes become an occasion for political hostage-taking, we are doing Putin’s work for him and preparing the ground for his next attack. We may be in an era when neither party can afford to give an inch, but at some point both Republicans and Democrats are going to have to re-learn the art of compromise and to redefine “victory” if the American experiment is to flourish and if we are to beat back the challenge of nativism and foreign attacks on liberal democracies. For nearly three decades now, the old ways of consensus and cooperation have been eclipsed by a 24/7 brawl in which truth is the first casualty and all of us lose. That has to stop, for all of our sakes. And the hunger for cooperation – any kind of cooperation – is there. When two of my colleagues from Texas, Democrat Beto O’Rourke and Republican Will Hurd, drove together from Texas to Washington to escape last week’s snowstorm, it made the news all the way around the world. Liberty and democracy are not our birthright to be taken for granted, and the United States of America is not exempt from the siren song of authoritarianism, nor are we invulnerable to the machinations of others. Our democracy has been paid for with blood and it must be nurtured and treated with reverence. In some respects, our commitment to popular sovereignty is a point of vulnerability, but it is also our greatest strength. If Putin and other undemocratic leaders around the world were not so fearful of the appeal of liberal democracy, they would not seek to weaken it. Now that we know the enemy within our midst, it is up to us to rise to the challenge. ###
03.20.17	03.20.17 Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Schiff Opening Statement During Hearing on Russian Active Measures Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, delivered the following statement during the Committee’s open hearing on Russian active measures during the 2016 election. Below is his statement (as prepared): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank Director Comey and Admiral Rogers for appearing before us today as the committee holds this first open hearing into the interference campaign waged against our 2016 Presidential election. Last summer, at the height of a bitterly contested and hugely consequential Presidential campaign, a foreign, adversarial power intervened in an effort to weaken our democracy, and to influence the outcome for one candidate and against the other. That foreign adversary was, of course, Russia, and it acted through its intelligence agencies and upon the direct instructions of its autocratic ruler, Vladimir Putin, in order to help Donald J. Trump become the 45th President of the United States. The Russian “active measures” campaign may have begun as early as 2015, when Russian intelligence services launched a series of spearphishing attacks designed to penetrate the computers of a broad array of Washington-based Democratic and Republican party organizations, think tanks and other entities. This continued at least through winter of 2016. While at first, the hacking may have been intended solely for the collection of foreign intelligence, in mid-2016, the Russians “weaponized” the stolen data and used platforms established by their intel services, such as DC Leaks and existing third party channels like Wikileaks, to dump the documents. The stolen documents were almost uniformly damaging to the candidate Putin despised, Hillary Clinton and, by forcing her campaign to constantly respond to the daily drip of disclosures, the releases greatly benefited Donald Trump’s campaign. None of these facts is seriously in question and they are reflected in the consensus conclusions of all our intelligence agencies. We will never know whether the Russian intervention was determinative in such a close election. Indeed, it is unknowable in a campaign in which so many small changes could have dictated a different result. More importantly, and for the purposes of our investigation, it simply does not matter. What does matter is this: the Russians successfully meddled in our democracy, and our intelligence agencies have concluded that they will do so again. Ours is not the first democracy to be attacked by the Russians in this way. Russian intelligence has been similarly interfering in the internal and political affairs of our European and other allies for decades. What is striking here is the degree to which the Russians were willing to undertake such an audacious and risky action against the most powerful nation on earth. That ought to be a warning to us, that if we thought that the Russians would not dare to so blatantly interfere in our affairs, we were wrong. And if we do not do our very best to understand how the Russians accomplished this unprecedented attack on our democracy and what we need to do to protect ourselves in the future, we will have only ourselves to blame. We know a lot about the Russian operation, about the way they amplified the damage their hacking and dumping of stolen documents was causing through the use of slick propaganda like RT, the Kremlin’s media arm. But there is also a lot we do not know. Most important, we do not yet know whether the Russians had the help of U.S. citizens, including people associated with the Trump campaign. Many of Trump’s campaign personnel, including the President himself, have ties to Russia and Russian interests. This is, of course, no crime. On the other hand, if the Trump campaign, or anybody associated with it, aided or abetted the Russians, it would not only be a serious crime, it would also represent one of the most shocking betrayals of our democracy in history. In Europe, where the Russians have a much longer history of political interference, they have used a variety of techniques to undermine democracy. They have employed the hacking and dumping of documents and slick propaganda as they clearly did here, but they have also used bribery, blackmail, compromising material, and financial entanglement to secure needed cooperation from individual citizens of targeted countries. The issue of U.S. person involvement is only one of the important matters that the Chairman and I have agreed to investigate and which is memorialized in the detailed and bipartisan scope of investigation we have signed. We will also examine whether the intelligence community’s public assessment of the Russian operation is supported by the raw intelligence, whether the U.S. Government responded properly or missed the opportunity to stop this Russian attack much earlier, and whether the leak of information about Michael Flynn or others is indicative of a systemic problem. We have also reviewed whether there was any evidence to support President Trump’s claim that he was wiretapped by President Obama in Trump Tower – and found no evidence whatsoever to support that slanderous accusation – and we hope that Director Comey can now put that matter permanently to rest. Today, most of my Democratic colleagues will be exploring with you the potential involvement of U.S. persons in the Russian attack on our democracy. It is not that we feel the other issues are not important – they are very important – but rather because this issue is least understood by the public. We realize, of course, that you may not be able to answer many of our questions in open session. You may or may not be willing to disclose even whether there is any investigation. But we hope to present to you and the public why we believe this matter is of such gravity that it demands a thorough investigation, not only by us, as we intend to do, but by the FBI as well. Let me give you a little preview of what I expect you will be asked by our members. Whether the Russian active measures campaign began as nothing more than an attempt to gather intelligence, or was always intended to be more than that, we do not know, and is one of the questions we hope to answer. But we do know this: the months of July and August 2016 appear to have been pivotal. It was at this time that the Russians began using the information they had stolen to help Donald Trump and harm Hillary Clinton. And so the question is why? What was happening in July/August of last year? And were U.S. persons involved? Here are some of the matters, drawn from public sources alone, since that is all we can discuss in this setting, that concern us and should concern all Americans. In early July, Carter Page, someone candidate Trump identified as one of his national security advisors, travels to Moscow on a trip approved by the Trump campaign. While in Moscow, he gives a speech critical of the United States and other western countries for what he believes is a hypocritical focus on democratization and efforts to fight corruption. According to Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence officer who is reportedly held in high regard by U.S. Intelligence, Russian sources tell him that Page has also had a secret meeting with Igor Sechin (SEH-CHIN), CEO of Russian gas giant Rosneft. Sechin is reported to be a former KGB agent and close friend of Putin’s. According to Steele’s Russian sources, Page is offered brokerage fees by Sechin on a deal involving a 19 percent share of the company. According to Reuters, the sale of a 19.5 percent share in Rosneft later takes place, with unknown purchasers and unknown brokerage fees. Also, according to Steele’s Russian sources, the Trump campaign is offered documents damaging to Hillary Clinton, which the Russians would publish through an outlet that gives them deniability, like Wikileaks. The hacked documents would be in exchange for a Trump Administration policy that de-emphasizes Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and instead focuses on criticizing NATO countries for not paying their fare share – policies which, even as recently as the President’s meeting last week with Angela Merkel, have now presciently come to pass. In the middle of July, Paul Manafort, the Trump campaign manager and someone who was long on the payroll of Pro-Russian Ukrainian interests, attends the Republican Party convention. Carter Page, back from Moscow, also attends the convention. According to Steele, it was Manafort who chose Page to serve as a go-between for the Trump campaign and Russian interests. Ambassador Kislyak, who presides over a Russian embassy in which diplomatic personnel would later be expelled as likely spies, also attends the Republican Party convention and meets with Carter Page and additional Trump Advisors JD Gordon and Walid Phares. It was JD Gordon who approved Page’s trip to Moscow. Ambassador Kislyak also meets with Trump campaign national security chair and now Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Sessions would later deny meeting with Russian officials during his Senate confirmation hearing. Just prior to the convention, the Republican Party platform is changed, removing a section that supports the provision of “lethal defensive weapons” to Ukraine, an action that would be contrary to Russian interests. Manafort categorically denies involvement by the Trump campaign in altering the platform. But the Republican Party delegate who offered the language in support of providing defensive weapons to Ukraine states that it was removed at the insistence of the Trump campaign. Later, JD Gordon admits opposing the inclusion of the provision at the time it was being debated and prior to its being removed. Later in July, and after the convention, the first stolen emails detrimental to Hillary Clinton appear on Wikileaks. A hacker who goes by the moniker Guccifer 2.0 claims responsibility for hacking the DNC and giving the documents to Wikileaks. But leading private cyber security firms including CrowdStrike, Mandiant, and ThreatConnect review the evidence of the hack and conclude with high certainty that it was the work of APT28 and APT29, who were known to be Russian intelligence services. The U.S. Intelligence community also later confirms that the documents were in fact stolen by Russian intelligence and Guccifer 2.0 acted as a front. Also in late July, candidate Trump praises Wikileaks, says he loves them, and openly appeals to the Russians to hack his opponents’ emails, telling them that they will be richly rewarded by the press. On August 8th, Roger Stone, a longtime Trump political advisor and self-proclaimed political dirty trickster, boasts in a speech that he “has communicated with Assange,” and that more documents would be coming, including an “October surprise.” In the middle of August, he also communicates with the Russian cutout Guccifer 2.0, and authors a Breitbart piece denying Guccifer’s links to Russian intelligence. Then, later in August, Stone does something truly remarkable, when he predicts that John Podesta’s personal emails will soon be published. “Trust me, it will soon be Podesta’s time in the barrel. #Crooked Hillary.” In the weeks that follow, Stone shows a remarkable prescience: “I have total confidence that @wikileaks and my hero Julian Assange will educate the American people soon. #Lockherup. “Payload coming,” he predicts, and two days later, it does. Wikileaks releases its first batch of Podesta emails. The release of John Podesta’s emails would then continue on a daily basis up to election day. On Election Day in November, Donald Trump wins. Donald Trump appoints one of his high profile surrogates, Michael Flynn, to be his national security advisor. Michael Flynn has been paid by the Kremlin’s propaganda outfit, RT, and other Russian entities in the past. In December, Michael Flynn has a secret conversation with Ambassador Kislyak about sanctions imposed by President Obama on Russia over its hacking designed to help the Trump campaign. Michael Flynn lies about this secret conversation. The Vice President, unknowingly, then assures the country that no such conversation ever happened. The President is informed Flynn has lied, and Pence has misled the country. The President does nothing. Two weeks later, the press reveals that Flynn has lied and the President is forced to fire Mr. Flynn. The President then praises the man who lied, Flynn, and castigates the press for exposing the lie. Now, is it possible that the removal of the Ukraine provision from the GOP platform was a coincidence? Is it a coincidence that Jeff Sessions failed to tell the Senate about his meetings with the Russian Ambassador, not only at the convention, but a more private meeting in his office and at a time when the U.S. election was under attack by the Russians? Is it a coincidence that Michael Flynn would lie about a conversation he had with the same Russian Ambassador Kislyak about the most pressing issue facing both countries at the time they spoke – the U.S. imposition of sanctions over Russian hacking of our election designed to help Donald Trump? Is it a coincidence that the Russian gas company Rosneft sold a 19 percent share after former British Intelligence Officer Steele was told by Russian sources that Carter Page was offered fees on a deal of just that size? Is it a coincidence that Steele’s Russian sources also affirmed that Russia had stolen documents hurtful to Secretary Clinton that it would utilize in exchange for pro-Russian policies that would later come to pass? Is it a coincidence that Roger Stone predicted that John Podesta would be the victim of a Russian hack and have his private emails published, and did so even before Mr. Podesta himself was fully aware that his private emails would be exposed? Is it possible that all of these events and reports are completely unrelated, and nothing more than an entirely unhappy coincidence? Yes, it is possible. But it is also possible, maybe more than possible, that they are not coincidental, not disconnected and not unrelated, and that the Russians used the same techniques to corrupt U.S. persons that they have employed in Europe and elsewhere. We simply don’t know, not yet, and we owe it to the country to find out. Director Comey, what you see on the dais in front of you, in the form of this small number of members and staff is all we have to commit to this investigation. This is it. We are not supported by hundreds or thousands of agents and investigators, with offices around the world. It is just us and our Senate counterparts. And in addition to this investigation, we still have our day job, which involves overseeing some of the largest and most important agencies in the country, agencies, which, by the way, are trained to keep secrets. I point this out for two reasons: First, because we cannot do this work alone. Nor should we. We believe these issues are so important that the FBI must devote its resources to investigating each of them thoroughly; to do any less would be negligent in the protection of our country. We also need your full cooperation with our own investigation, so that we have the benefit of what you may know, and so that we may coordinate our efforts in the discharge of both our responsibilities. And second, I raise this because I believe that we would benefit from the work of an independent commission that can devote the staff and resources to this investigation that we do not have, and that can be completely removed from any political considerations. This should not be a substitute for the work that we, in the intelligence committees should and must do, but as an important complement to our efforts, just as was the case after 9/11. The stakes are nothing less than the future of liberal democracy. We are engaged in a new war of ideas, not communism versus capitalism, but authoritarianism versus democracy and representative government. And in this struggle, our adversary sees our political process as a legitimate field of battle. Only by understanding what the Russians did can we inoculate ourselves from the further Russian interference we know is coming. Only then can we help protect our European allies who are, as we speak, enduring similar Russian interference in their own elections. Finally, I want to say a word about our own committee investigation. You will undoubtedly observe in the questions and comments that our members make during today's hearing, that the members of both parties share a common concern over the Russian attack on our democracy, but bring a different perspective on the significance of certain issues, or the quantum of evidence we have seen in the earliest stages of this investigation. That is to be expected. The question most people have is whether we can really conduct this investigation in the kind of thorough and nonpartisan manner that the seriousness of the issues merit, or whether the enormous political consequences of our work will make that impossible. The truth is, I don’t know the answer. But I do know this: If this committee can do its work properly, if we can pursue the facts wherever they lead, unafraid to compel witnesses to testify, to hear what they have to say, to learn what we will and, after exhaustive work, reach a common conclusion, it would be a tremendous public service and one that is very much in the national interest. So let us try. Thank you Mr. Chairman, I yield back. ###
03.17.17	03.17.17 Rep. Schiff Reintroduces ORCA Act to Phase Out Display of Captive Killer Whales Federal Legislation Would Prohibit Breeding, Wild Capture, Import or Export of Species Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Orca Responsibility and Care Advancement (ORCA) Act. This legislation, first introduced last Congress, would phase out the captivity of orcas so that their display ends with this generation. Specifically, it would prohibit the breeding, the taking or wild capture, and the import or export of orcas for the purposes of public display. This legislation will also allow for the orderly phasing out of the display of this species, giving orca-holding facilities time to transition to a more humane future. “Last year, SeaWorld made the voluntary and laudable decision to phase out orca captivity in its parks, but these changes need to be made permanent across the country not just at SeaWorld, but in all parks, said Schiff. “The ORCA Act would ensure that this is the last generation of orcas who live in captivity, and we will appreciate these incredible creatures where they belong – in the wild.” The current global population of captive orcas has two sources – wild capture and captive breeding programs. Under current federal law, the federal government can issue permits for the capture or import of orcas for the purposes of public display. This is how, in the past, U.S. display facilities legally acquired orcas from the wild. While a wild capture of an orca has not occurred in U.S. waters since 1976, and wild-caught orcas from other parts of the world have not been imported since 2001, permits can still be issued legally. All other captive orcas have been bred in captivity. These practices would be prohibited under the ORCA Act. When this bill was first introduced in November 2015, there was no indication that captive orcas would be phased out absent Congressional action. However, after both political and public pressure, and the great progress made in the State of California, SeaWorld announced in March 2015 that they would voluntarily implement the steps put forth by this legislation. Rep. Schiff applauded this decision and urges the passage of this legislation to codify the changes. This legislation is supported by the Animal Welfare Initiative, Humane Society Legislative Fund, Born Free USA, and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. It was introduced with 15 co-sponsors, including Reps. Don Beyer, David Cicilline, Katherine Clark, Gerald Connolly, Rosa DeLauro, Suzan DelBene, Denny Heck, Jared Huffman, Derek Kilmer, Rick Larsen, Barbara Lee, Gwen Moore, Jared Polis, Adam Smith, and Jackie Speier. ###
03.17.17	03.17.17 Members of the U.S. Congress Call to Drop Criminal Charges Against Crimean Journalist Mykola Semena Washington, DC – Today, Members of the U.S. Congress called on Prosecutor General Oleg Kamshylov to drop all charges against Crimean journalist Mykola Semena, who was charged after writing an article expressing the view that the Crimea should be returned to Ukraine. The letter sent late Friday was signed by Reps. Adam Schiff, Brendan Boyle, Gerry Connolly, Marcy Kaptur, William Keating, Sandy Levin, Bill Pascrell, Mark Pocan, John Shimkus, and Louise Slaughter. The full letter, linked here, is below: Dear Prosecutor General Kamshylov, The trial of Mykola Semena, a prominent Crimean journalist who contributes to Radio Free Europe//Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) Ukrainian service is scheduled to begin on March 20, 2017. Mr. Semena is charged with public incitement to undermine Russian territorial integrity via mass media, after he wrote an article expressing the view that the Crimea should be returned to Ukraine. We believe these charges are part of a concerted effort by Russian and Russian-backed authorities to clamp down on independent media. Mr. Semena has worked and lived as a journalist in Crimea since 1991. He was one of the only independent journalists to remain on the peninsula following Russia’s March 2014 annexation of Crimea, and has continued to courageously provide an independent press to residents of Crimea. He is currently under a court order that bars him from leaving Crimea and forces him to seek permission before traveling outside the region, despite his requests to travel to Kyiv for urgently needed medical care. As members of the U.S. Congress, we have vowed to promote and protect international human rights norms on freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We add our voice to that of the European Union (EU), the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE), the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), to express our deep concern over the Semena case. Mr. Semena is being tried for exercising his rights to free speech; criticizing authorities is not a crime. We strongly urge you to drop all charges against Mr. Semena, and allow him to leave the Crimean peninsula to seek medical treatment in Ukraine. Sincerely, Adam SchiffMember of Congress
03.02.17	03.02.17 Intel Committee Ranking Member Schiff Calls on Sessions to Step Down, Special Prosecutor Appointed Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee, released the following statement: “After reviewing Attorney General Session's testimony during his confirmation hearing and his statements this afternoon, I have come to the reluctant conclusion that the Attorney General should step down. As a Senator, Mr. Sessions demanded complete and truthful testimony by those appearing before him for confirmation, and I do not believe he met his own rigorous standard. “First, Session's testimony clearly misled the Senate on the subject of his contacts with Russian officials. Whether he deliberately misled the Senate, depends on what he intended, a matter that is difficult to know or prove. Jeff Sessions wasn't someone occasionally considered a surrogate, as he demurely suggested at the hearing, but one of the earliest and most prominent surrogates of the Trump campaign. His explanation for omitting to tell the Senate of his meetings with the Russian Ambassador – that he was sought out by the Russian ambassador at the Republican convention or thereafter in his personal office because of his work on the Armed Services Committee – is simply not credible. In the midst of a Russian campaign aimed at undermining our election and as a highly visible proxy for candidate Trump, Sessions would have had to be extraordinarily naive or gullible to believe that the Ambassador was seeking him out in his office for a discussion on military matters, and Sessions is neither. “Second, the partial nature of the Attorney General's recusal from matters pertaining to the Trump campaign is not enough to remedy his flawed testimony, or to give the public confidence that counterintelligence concerns related to Russia and the Trump Administration and organization will be fully investigated or, if necessary, prosecuted. In the interests of justice, I believe that an independent prosecutor should be appointed to examine whether any counter-intelligence or other investigation warrants prosecution. With the Attorney General's recusal, the Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente should take this step immediately.”
02.14.17	02.14.17 Intel Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on Resignation of Michael Flynn Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: "General Flynn's decision to step down as National Security Advisor was all but ordained the day he misled the country about his secret talks with the Russian Ambassador. In fact, Flynn was always a poor choice for National Security Advisor, a role in which you need to be a consensus builder, and possess sobriety and steady judgment. It is certainly no role for someone who plays fast and loose with the truth. "But Flynn's departure does not end questions over his contacts with the Russians, which have been alleged to have begun well before December 29. These alleged contacts and any others the Trump campaign may have had with the Kremlin are the subject of the House Intelligence Committee's ongoing investigation. Moreover, the Trump Administration has yet to be forthcoming about who was aware of Flynn's conversations with the Ambassador and whether he was acting on the instructions of the President or any other officials, or with their knowledge."
01.27.17	01.27.17 Rep Schiff Statement on Trump Executive Order Targeting Muslim Refugees Schiff: That Order Issued On Holocaust Remembrance Day Demonstrates What a Poor Student of History Trump Is Los Angeles, CA -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the house Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: "We are a nation founded on religious liberty whose doors have always been open to those fleeing persecution and seeking a better life. Donald Trump's executive order today establishes a religious test for those coming from certain Muslim countries. It would turn away women and children fleeing violence unless they worship in the right way or to the right God. It would represent a dangerous first step in the institutionalization of prejudice against practitioners of a certain faith. "That this order was issued on Holocaust Remembrance Day demonstrates what a poor student of history the President is, and how much it will fall upon Congress to ensure that America does not allow any repetition of the mistakes and tragedies of the past." ###
01.24.17	01.24.17 Rep. Schiff Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Protect Children From Predators by Requiring Criminal Background Checks Washington, DC – Every year, thousands of youth recreation programs are a vulnerable target for child predators who hope to gain access to their next victims under the guise of seeking employment or volunteer opportunities. In as many as 34 states, child-serving organizations do not have reliable access to both state and national FBI fingerprint-based background checks – the gold standard for criminal background checks – because access to the FBI system is often limited, unreasonably time-consuming, or prohibitively expensive. The bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act (CPIA), introduced by Rep. Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Bishop (R-MI), will make FBI fingerprint-based background checks permanently and widely available to youth-serving organizations nationwide. They introduced the legislation with 26 bipartisan co-sponsors. “When parents send their children to after-school programs, sports camps, or to be with mentors, they must be able to trust that their children are in safe hands,” Rep. Schiff said. “Every organization that serves our youth should have access to the FBI fingerprint-based background check system so they can thoroughly screen anyone who will be working with kids. The results of a multi-year pilot program strongly indicate that this system will be effective in catching child predators who try to avoid detection by moving across state lines.” “Congress has a duty to ensure every youth-serving organization in America can afford and access the very best background checks on staff and volunteers, and doing so means utilizing the FBI’s gold-standard database,” said Rep. Bishop. “We cannot allow a single bad actor to slip through the cracks when it comes to our children’s safety. Protecting kids was a top priority of mine in the Michigan Senate, and I am proud to continue working with Congressman Schiff on this important effort.” Currently, many child-serving organizations have the ability to request state background checks on prospective employees and volunteers that will work with children. However, a state background check alone is no match for the FBI’s finger-print based system – the only one capable of performing a nation-wide search and preventing child predators from avoiding detection by moving from state to state. CPIA builds on the success of the PROTECT Act’s Child Safety Pilot which ran from 2003 until 2011. The pilot provided access to FBI fingerprint background checks for a variety of child-serving non-profits. The pilot conducted over 105,000 background checks and 6.2% of potential volunteers were found to have criminal records of concern – over 6,500 individuals. In addition, over 40% of individuals with criminal records of concern had crimes in states other than where they were applying to volunteer – meaning that only a nationwide check would have flagged these individuals’ criminal records. The criminal offenses among some of these applicants included convictions for criminal sexual conduct with a child, child endangerment, and manslaughter. To build on the success of the Child Safety Pilot and make these essential background checks permanently and widely available to youth-serving organizations, we have introduced the Child Protection Improvements Act. The legislation would: Ensure that organizations that serve children, the disabled, and the elderly all across the country have access to FBI fingerprint searches in a timely and affordable manner. Protect privacy rights by ensuring that the specifics of a criminal record are never disclosed without explicit consent by the volunteer or employee and providing an opportunity for individuals to correct errors in their records. Does NOT authorize any new spending. The program will be supported by the fees assessed for background checks by the requesting nonprofit organizations. Does NOT require organizations to utilize FBI fingerprint background checks, only makes them available to those wishing to utilize them. An earlier version of this legislation passed the House in 2010 on a 413-4 vote.
01.17.17	01.17.17 Rep. Schiff Will Attend Both Inauguration and Women’s March in DC Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement: “On Friday, I will be attending the Inauguration and on Saturday I will march with constituents who traveled to DC for the Women's March. I want to share my thoughts on these upcoming events, even though I know many of you may disagree with my decision. “This is the first time I've ever truly considered not attending an Inauguration, both because of a foreign adversarial power's role in Donald Trump's election, and because of his deplorable conduct before and after November 7. “During the campaign, I repeatedly warned of Russia's interference in our democracy and the assistance it was giving Trump by hacking and releasing documents detrimental to Secretary Clinton. In fact, as the Ranking Democrats on the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, Senator Feinstein and I took the rare step of attributing the hacks to Russia well before the Administration was willing to, and I will be helping to lead the investigation into its pernicious interference in our affairs. “Since the election, Trump has only made matters worse, continuing his denials of the extent of Russian involvement and persisting in offensive conduct that only divides the country. “There are few people I respect more than John Lewis, a hero of the civil rights movement and a man I was honored to join in a civil rights pilgrimage to the Edmund Pettis Bridge and during a sit-in on the House floor to protest inaction on gun violence. “Trump's lack of respect for Rep. Lewis and his insulting attitude towards others offends me greatly. As I have said many times, no one is doing more to undermine the legitimacy of Donald Trump's Presidency than Donald Trump. “So why go? “In my view, Congressional participation at a Presidential Inauguration is not about the President, it's about the Presidency. Yes, many in the public attend because they are pleased with the election and want to be present when their candidate is sworn in. But the reason that Congress surrounds the new President during the ceremony -- members from both parties -- is not because both parties are pleased with the result of the election. Far from it. We participate on a bipartisan basis because we are acknowledging the peaceful transition of power that is the hallmark of our democracy. “Like many of you, I was appalled when candidate Trump wouldn't commit to respecting the result of the election if he lost. I feel I would be doing the same thing if I boycotted the ceremony in which the office of the Presidency is passed from one occupant of the office to the next. There's a reason why Senators Feinstein, Harris, Sanders and others are attending the Inauguration, and it is out of respect for the office, even if the man who is taking the oath has demonstrated little understanding of what that means. If former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton can demonstrate the grit to attend the Inauguration after Trump's slanderous attacks on her, then so can I. “On the day following the Inauguration, I will join constituents in Washington for the Women's March and participate in another fundamental aspect of our democracy -- the right to protest. Our message that day, and every day of his Presidency will be the same: That we will not allow Trump to roll back the progress we have made, that his actions and words have consequences, that we will hold him accountable, that demeaning women, minorities and anyone who disagrees with him will not be acceptable, and that we will not be silent. “Once again, thank you for sharing your thoughts and I hope you will continue to do so.”
01.03.17	01.03.17 Rep. Adam Schiff Sworn Into Congress for New Term Representing California's 28th Congressional District Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) was sworn into Congress for his ninth term to serve California's 28th Congressional District. Schiff also announced that he will continue to serve as Ranking Member of the powerful House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and will be on leave from House Appropriations Committee this term. “As we enter the 115th Congress, our nation remains deeply divided, but over the next two years we have the opportunity – not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans – to work to improve our economy, protect our country, and ensure that the middle class continues to grow and thrive,” said Schiff. “This coming term will present some very clear challenges, but I will work to further improve our economy, help small businesses, and ensure that all Americans have access to affordable healthcare. I will also continue my work to preserve and expand our public lands for future generations to enjoy. “I will also continue to champion efforts to conduct a real investigation into Russia’s attack on our democratic institutions so that Americans are better informed about what took place, and so that Russia is deterred from future interference in our elections. And as the Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee, I will work to keep our country safe while preserving the privacy and civil liberties of all Americans.” “When new ideas are presented that move our country forward, I promise to support them -- whether they come from Democrats or Republicans. But when proposals are introduced that would take our country back, or that would diminish the rights of any Americans, I will fight them in every way.” Rep. Schiff will continue representing the 28th District in Congress, including all or parts of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood. Prior to serving in the House of Representatives, Schiff completed a four-year term as State Senator for California's 21st State Senate District, chairing the Senate Judiciary Committee, the Senate Select Committee on Juvenile Justice and the Joint Committee on the Arts. He led legislative efforts to guarantee up-to-date textbooks in the classroom, overhaul child support, and pass a patient's bill of rights. Before serving in the Legislature, Schiff served with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Los Angeles for six years.
12.02.16	12.02.16 Rep. Schiff Heralds Bipartisan Legislation Passed in House to End Clawback of National Guard Bonuses, Pay Back Servicemembers Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement after a measure that included in the National Defense Authorization Act to permanently halt efforts to claw back reenlistment bonuses and benefits paid to California National Guard soldiers a decade ago was passed with broad bipartisan support in the House: "The bipartisan legislation we passed today should give Guard members the confidence they need that if they accepted a bonus in good faith, they won't have to pay it back, and if they did so already, the soldiers will be repaid. It's rare for a deeply divided Congress to move quickly on any issue, but with only a few weeks left in the year, we wanted to pass this legislation before the Holiday season. Even now that the bill has passed, we will keep a watchful eye on the Pentagon and if any further relief is necessary, we stand ready to act again." This provision passed today mirrors legislation that the members of Congress introduced earlier in this month to require the Pentagon to suspend all collection efforts and establish a streamlined process to provide financial relief for affected service members. According to the Pentagon, almost 10,000 members of the Army National Guard may have received improper benefits from 2004 to 2010. The language in the NDAA prevents the Army from recouping those funds from any service members who unknowingly received them during that time period. It also requires the Army to reimburse any soldier who has already repaid the government, and to notify credit agencies that any debt previously reported was invalid. The bill would not cover National Guard members who engaged in fraud or misrepresentation. The Senate is expected to vote on the NDAA in the coming days.
11.30.16	11.30.16 Schiff, Feinstein, Boxer Announce Protections for California National Guard Bonuses Included in NDAA Washington—Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer and Representative Adam Schiff (all D-Calif.) announced that a measure was included in the National Defense Authorization Act to permanently halt efforts to claw back reenlistment bonuses and benefits paid to California National Guard soldiers a decade ago. This provision mirrors legislation that the members of Congress introduced earlier in this month to require the Pentagon to suspend all collection efforts and establish a streamlined process to provide financial relief for affected service members. “The goal was to make it clear that California National Guard soldiers won’t be forced to unfairly repay bonuses promised for their service a decade ago and this bill accomplishes that,” said Senator Feinstein. “The language in the NDAA will ensure that the commitments made by Secretary Carter will be honored by the next administration, any money already repaid will be given back and that the Pentagon will help soldiers who face financial hardship fully recover from this ordeal.” “This is an important step toward protecting service members and their families from being held responsible‎ for the mistakes and illegal actions of others,” Senator Boxer said. “With only a few days left before Congress leaves town for the rest of the year, the defense authorization bill introduced will ensure that those National Guard soldiers who were required to pay back bonuses and benefits they received in good faith are not the subject of clawbacks both now or in the future,” said Rep. Schiff. “This legislation, which mirrors the bill I introduced with Senators Feinstein and Boxer and which I worked on as a conferee on the NDAA, will provide relief to soldiers who accepted a bonus or incentive in good faith. I hope that we can move quickly to provide this well-deserved relief so we can help provide peace of mind for our service members and their families during this holiday season.” According to the Pentagon, almost 10,000 members of the Army National Guard may have received improper benefits from 2004 to 2010. The language in the NDAA prevents the Army from recouping those funds from any service members who unknowingly received them during that time period. It also requires the Army to reimburse any soldier who has already repaid the government, and to notify credit agencies that any debt previously reported was invalid. The bill would not cover National Guard members who engaged in fraud or misrepresentation. The House and Senate are expected to vote on the bill in the coming days.
10.24.16	10.24.16 Rep. Schiff Calls on California National Guard to Halt Efforts to Seek Repayment of Enlistment Bonuses, Is Drafting Legislation Los Angeles, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) called on the California National Guard and the Pentagon to immediately halt efforts to obtain repayment of enlistment bonuses, student loan payments, and other payments granted incorrectly to members of the California Guard. In a letter to Adjutant General of the California National Guard David Baldwin, Schiff pushed the Guard to immediately halt these efforts saying that “seeking reimbursement for these funds when they were accepted in good faith imposes a substantial financial hardship on those who have served our nation and their families.” In the letter, Schiff also announced that he is working on a legislative remedy for when Congress is back in session in November. In a statement accompanying the letter, Schiff stated: "The men and women of the National Guard serve our nation well, and they deserve better than being hounded for repayment of enlistment bonuses and other benefits they were mistakenly provided through no fault of their own. These soldiers enlisted during the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and frequently served overseas, and we owe them a debt that we can never repay, but we can start by ensuring they are not subject to tax liens or wage garnishments based on the errors of others. Congress can, and I believe will, address this unacceptable situation, and in the meantime the California National Guard should suspend all debt collection activities against these soldiers." The text of the full letter is below: Dear General Baldwin: I request that the California National Guard immediately halt efforts to obtain repayment of enlistment bonuses, student loan payments, and other payments granted incorrectly to members of the California Guard, as discussed in the Los Angeles Times article dated October 22, 2016. The facts detailed in the article are deeply concerning, and suggest that at the very least, Congress must investigate legislative options to provide relief to current and former members of the California guard who are now being required to repay overpayments, in some cases nearly a decade after the bonuses were first issued. Seeking reimbursement for these funds when they were accepted in good faith imposes a substantial financial hardship on those who have served our nation and their families. According to the article entitled "Thousands of California soldiers forced to repay enlistment bonuses a decade after going to war," as many as ten thousand members of the guard are being required to repay enlistment bonuses and other benefits that were later determined to be provided in error. In some cases, these soldiers are subject to wage garnishments and tax liens, as well as required to pay interest charges. Simply put, the men and women who serve our nation in the National Guard deserve better. And all the more so for those who enlisted or reenlisted in the midst of two major military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq that stretched our military forces and soldiers to their breaking point. The reward for their bravery and service should be our eternal gratitude and assistance. It is evident that there were severe failures in financial controls and oversight that allowed overpayments of this magnitude to occur. However, It should not fall to men and women who joined the national guard to serve their country to shoulder the burden of others' mistakes, particular so many years later. I appreciate your statement released in response to public inquiries stating that though you lack the authority to waive these debts, "the California National Guard welcomes any law passed by Congress" to address the issue. I believe that corrective legislation is possible, and intend to pursue all legislative means to advance a solution. In the meantime, and as Congress conducts a thorough investigation, veterans of the guard and their families should be able to live free from the stress and hardship caused by efforts to collect on these repayments. I urge you to publicly suspend debt collection while we work towards a resolution that appropriately recognizes the service of these soldiers, as well as addressing soldiers who have already repaid these debts as well as the underlying issues that allowed overpayments to occur and go undetected for years. Thank you for your attention to this issue, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Adam Schiff cc: General Joseph L. Lengyel, Chief, National Guard Bureau
08.26.16	08.26.16 Rep. Schiff Calls on FDA to Address Lack of Competition for Epinephrine in Pharmaceutical Industry Schiff: FDA must prioritize the introduction of safe and affordable generic alternatives Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) sent a letter to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) urging the regulatory agency to address the recent shocking price increase of the epinephrine medication by the Mylan Corporation. After a meeting with Elizabeth Isabella and her husband Ed, Burbank constituents who are parents to two children susceptible to anaphylaxis, Rep. Schiff witnessed first-hand the burden that this type of drug price increase places on an average American family. In his letter, Rep. Schiff writes "to request that the Food and Drug Administration prioritize the introduction of safe and affordable generic alternatives. The affordability of epinephrine injectors is critical to the health of Americans at risk of anaphylaxis. For families with high-deductible insurance plans, as well as those insured through Medicare, Medicaid, or the VA, or without insurance at all, the out of pocket costs for the EpiPen has become cost-prohibitive.” “As the mother of two children with severe allergies requiring auto-injection epinephrine, every year I must purchase multiple boxes of EpiPens: sets for each child for school, home and after school activities,” said Elizabeth Isabella.“I am incredibly fortunate that my family has savings to pay for this life-preserving medication, though if the price continues to exponentially increase it will be difficult. I cannot imagine the fear and panic that parents who are not so fortunate are being forced to live with every day." The full text of the letter is below, click here to view a PDF of the letter: Dr. Robert M. Califf Commissioner U.S. Food and Drug Administration 1093 New Hampshire Avenue Silver Spring, MD 20993 Dear Commissioner Califf: I write to express my concern over the recently reported substantial price increase of the Epinephrine Auto-Injector (EpiPen) manufactured by Mylan Pharmaceuticals, and to request that the Food and Drug Administration prioritize the introduction of safe and affordable generic alternatives. The affordability of epinephrine injectors is critical to the health of Americans at risk of anaphylaxis. The EpiPen has been in use since 1977, yet, since acquiring the product in 2007, Mylan has steadily increased the price of EpiPen by over 400 percent. I recently met with constituents who expressed their consternation at the exponential price increase and worry they will not be able to access this life-saving treatment for their children. EpiPens expire after one year and, as more schools require students that suffer from severe allergies to carry EpiPens, families are forced to purchase costly replacements each school year. For families with high-deductible insurance plans, as well as those insured through Medicare, Medicaid, or the VA, or without insurance at all, the out of pocket costs for the EpiPen has become cost-prohibitive. With the recall of competing product, Auvi-Q, in October 2015 and the recent rejection by the FDA of Teva Pharmaceutical’s generic EpiPen alternative, Mylan is left to face virtually no market competition; leaving them space to aggressively promote their product while simultaneously increasing costs. Due to the price increase, families and first responders across America are reluctantly turning to cost saving alternatives. News outlets report the use of expired EpiPens and manual syringes, which require extensive medical training to ensure correct dosage and proper administration. Following building public outrage, Mylan has already announced that they will increase the subsidy for those purchasing the EpiPen, which will be helpful to many who are struggling with the out of pocket cost. However, it does not resolve the underlying issue of a lack of a generic alternative, and the reality that some patients who need EpiPens will not have them due to their costs, putting them at risk of potentially fatal injury or lengthy and expensive medical treatment. For that reason, I ask that the FDA consider addressing any barriers that currently exist for emerging epinephrine treatments currently in development. Expediting the review process of alternative products will encourage healthy competition in the marketplace and ensure that this life-saving treatment will remain affordable for those that need it most. As the FDA continues its review process of potential new auto-injectable epinephrine devices, I urge you to utilize all available resources and authorities to accelerate the process of approving safe and effective treatments to patients diagnosed with this, potentially fatal, condition. To that end, I would ask that you respond in writing regarding the status of alternatives to the EpiPen currently under FDA review, and the timeline for approval, provided they prove safe and effective. Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to your response and appreciate your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, ###
06.28.16	06.28.16 Rep. Schiff Blasts Republican Benghazi Report Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a Member of the Benghazi Select Committee and Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement after Republicans released their partisan report on the tragic attack in Benghazi: "After seven million taxpayer dollars and two years, the Republican Benghazi report fails to alter the core conclusions of the eight other investigations that went before. In an eight hundred page report which attempts to substitute quantity for quality, it adds little that is appreciably new. There is no evidence that the military was ordered to stand down, no evidence of gun running, no evidence that the President or Secretary of State interfered with security in Benghazi or the response to the tragedy and no evidence of politicization – except by the Select Committee itself. "The Chairman attempts to make a virtue out of the fact it could produce no new evidence with which to criticize Secretary Clinton, despite two years of trying, arguing that this was never their intention. But this claim was belied by Republic Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who admitted the purpose behind establishing the committee was to drive down the Secretary's numbers. More important, the partisan goal of the Select Committee was demonstrated by the behavior of the committee itself. "When this investigation began, Chairman Gowdy promised to put aside partisanship and to work with Democrats – regrettably, the reality was very different. The Majority excluded Democrats from participating in certain interviews and even concealed them, issued subpoenas with no Minority consultation or vote, withheld transcripts, subjected Secretary Clinton to an eleven hour hearing, and produced its official Committee report without any input or review from Democrats. And in their report today, some Republicans felt that Chairman Gowdy didn’t go far enough in attacking Secretary Clinton and issued their own addendum that is so blatantly political it should have been issued by the Republican National Committee, not a congressional committee. "Ultimately, the Republican's conduct of the committee and its report will go down as one of the worst abuses of Congress's extraordinary investigative powers in its history. Far from tarnishing the reputations of those who tried valiantly to save American lives during the wake of that tragedy, the GOP members of the Select Committee have only impugned themselves.” ###
06.27.16	06.27.16 Rep. Schiff Statement On Benghazi Committee Democrats Issuing Report and Releasing Interview Transcripts Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a member of the Benghazi Select Committee and Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement after Democrats on the Benghazi Committee issued a 339-page report entitled, “Honoring Courage, Improving Security, and Fighting the Political Exploitation of a Tragedy” and also all of the unclassified interview transcripts in their possession so the American people can read them for themselves: "After more than two years and millions of taxpayer dollars devoted to the partisan Select Committee on Benghazi, the result was unsurprising – nothing the committee has found alters the core conclusions of the eight other investigations that went before. Its principal objective of damaging the political prospects of Secretary Clinton was also unrealized; instead, the most partisan select committee in Congressional history merely harmed the reputation of the GOP leadership and members that gave birth to it. "The Majority opted to conduct its business in shockingly partisan fashion – not even sharing its draft report with the Minority for input or comment – and although we found some new details about the events of that tragic night, they merely provided context rather than changing what we already knew. "We found that those who responded that night in Benghazi are true American heroes and did everything they could to save the lives of Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Tryonne Woods and Glen Doherty, and saved other lives in the process. We found that there was nothing more the military could have done that night that would have saved their lives, nor was there any political interference with rescue efforts. Instead, military assets needed to be better pre-positioned, changes that have already long since been made. Additionally, we confirmed that the State Department's security precautions were not adequate because of decisions made by the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, but debunked the claims that Secretary Clinton played any role in refusing additional security. "We yet again debunked conspiracy theories that there was any CIA arms trafficking or that the agency had advance notice of the attack. We also confirmed that the CIA security team's response was delayed for a matter of minutes while leadership at the base sensibly sought to secure local support. Finally, we confirmed that politics played no part in the initial intelligence assessments after the attack and the talking points provided to Congress and Administration officials. "When this investigation began, Chairman Gowdy promised to put aside partisanship and to work with Democrats – regrettably, the reality was very different. The Majority excluded Democrats from participating in certain interviews (even concealed them), issued subpoenas with no Minority consultation or vote, withheld transcripts, subjected Secretary Clinton to an eleven hour hearing, and produced its official Committee report without any input or review from Democrats. It's my hope that by issuing our report this week, as uncontroversial as the findings are, we can finally put this sad political chapter behind us once and for all." ###
06.16.16	06.16.16 Rep. Schiff Calls on Administration to Create Alert System When Those Previously Under Terror Investigation Purchase Weapons Asks Administration to Allow FBI to Place Flag in Background Check System Even After Investigation Ceases Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, sent a letter to President Obama urging the Administration take a small step to help prevent future attacks like the Orlando massacre. Schiff encourages the Administration to consider providing F.B.I. agents with the discretion to place a tag on someone who had been under a terror investigation that would generate a hit when they go to purchase a weapon. Schiff also reiterated his support for “No Fly No Buy” legislation to prevent known or suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms or explosives. In the letter, Schiff writes: “The perpetrator of the Orlando attack, Omar Siddiqui Matteen, had previously been known to the FBI, and in 2013 and 2014, he was the subject of a terrorism investigation. During these periods of FBI suspicion, Matteen would have been listed in the FBI's Terrorist Screening Database (TSDB) as a known or reasonably suspected terrorist (KST), a designation which would have triggered a ‘hit’ in response to a search of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). While designation as a known or suspected terrorist is not cause under existing law to prohibit a weapons transfer, it could trigger a 72-hour waiting period and notification to the FBI that the individual was seeking to purchase a firearm… “As we seek to reform our gun laws, I believe that an initial step that the Administration may be able to take under existing authority would be to create a mechanism whereby the FBI could, on a discretionary basis, keep in place the KST flag in the NICS system even after an investigation ceased to be active. In the case of Matteen, such a policy would have meant that the FBI could have learned of his purchase of a Sig Sauer MCX assault rifle and a handgun just a week prior to the attack in Orlando. Had the agent been so informed, it is possible that additional investigation could have disrupted his plot.” The full letter is below: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As we grieve the loss of 49 innocent lives and the more than 50 individuals who were injured during the worst mass shooting in American history, we feel a deep sense of urgency to take steps to prevent further bloodshed. You have long warned that our lax gun safety laws, including the absence of universal background checks and the wide availability of military style assault weapons with extended ammunition clips, could be exploited by terrorists. Tragically, we have seen that demonstrated in all its horror by a gunman radicalized by ISIS and filled with hatred against the LGBT community. I believe that everything must be done to prevent terrorist attacks on American soil, and when they cannot be prevented, every step must be taken to reduce their lethality. As ISIS exhorts its sympathizers and followers to carry out attacks in the United States, we must do more to prevent easy access to powerful firearms by those who would use them to murder Americans as quickly as possible. In your speech on June 14, you called upon Congress to pass legislation to give the Attorney General the discretion to bar certain individuals on the terrorist watch list and the no fly list from purchasing a firearm. It is imperative that Congress enact such “no fly, no buy” legislation without further delay. But a legislative remedy is not the only option. The perpetrator of the Orlando attack, Omar Siddiqui Matteen, had previously been known to the FBI, and in 2013 and 2014, he was the subject of a terrorism investigation. During these periods of FBI suspicion, Matteen would have been listed in the FBI's Terrorist Screening Database (TSDB) as a known or reasonably suspected terrorist (KST), a designation which would have triggered a “hit” in response to a search of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). While designation as a known or suspected terrorist is not cause under existing law to prohibit a weapons transfer, it could trigger a 72-hour waiting period and notification to the FBI that the individual was seeking to purchase a firearm. However, because the investigation of Matteen was subsequently closed, no such notice was generated to allow agents to take a second look when Matteen went to purchase his assault rifle. As we seek to reform our gun laws, I believe that an initial step that the Administration may be able to take under existing authority would be to create a mechanism whereby the FBI could, on a discretionary basis, keep in place the KST flag in the NICS system even after an investigation ceased to be active. In the case of Matteen, such a policy would have meant that the FBI could have learned of his purchase of a Sig Sauer MCX assault rifle and a handgun just a week prior to the attack in Orlando. Had the agent been so informed, it is possible that additional investigation could have disrupted his plot. Such a designation could be made at the discretion of the FBI agent in charge of a particular investigation, and it could be either indefinite or for a specific period of time, subject to renewal. Since it would not prevent any individual from purchasing a weapon, it would not violate any Second Amendment rights, but rather would simply provide the FBI – which faces an enormous challenge in tracking and investigating terrorist activity in open cases across all 50 states – with a valuable piece of information that could potentially disrupt an operational plot. I fully recognize that such a change is not sufficient in and of itself, and we believe congressional action is imperative to provide the Attorney General with clear authority to prohibit a sale to an individual based on a designation as a dangerous terrorist, including individuals listed on the no fly list. While this proposal will not prevent all acts of gun violence, it will help reduce the barbarous efficiency of another attack like the one we witnessed this week in Orlando. I look forward to your response and to working with you to prevent additional acts of gun violence across our nation. Sincerely,
06.14.16	06.14.16 Rep. Schiff and Senator Boxer Introduce Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act in Congress Would Add 193,000 Acres to Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) announced they will be introducing the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act. This landmark legislation would add more than 193,000 acres of the Rim of the Valley Corridor to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA). The Rim of the Valley stretches from the Simi Hills and Santa Susannas, the Verdugos and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. In 2008, Congressman Schiff passed the Rim of the Valley Corridor Study Act. This bill directed the National Park Service (NPS) to conduct a special resource study of the Rim of the Valley Corridor. The study sought to determine the suitability and feasibility of designating all or a portion of the Rim of the Valley Corridor as a unit of the existing Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA), and how these areas could be better managed and preserved. The National Park Service began the study in 2010 and transmitted its final report to Congress and the public in February 2016. Throughout the process, both NPS and Congressman Schiff solicited and considered thousands of comments from the public. "The Rim of the Valley is the critical bridge between the urban city centers and suburbs in the Los Angeles basin and the spectacular wilderness beyond, and our bill would help protect these lands for generations to come," said Rep. Schiff. "As more of this area is developed and open space diminishes, the wildlife it support is increasingly at risk. Congress has the power to preserve the Rim of the Valley for generations to come, but we must act quickly, or the opportunity will be gone." “The Santa Monica Mountains are one of California’s greatest treasures,” Senator Boxer said. “I am proud to join Congressman Schiff in introducing this bill, which will protect an additional 193,000 acres of wild and beautiful lands in the Rim of the Valley Corridor for current and future generations to enjoy.” The Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act would expand the SMMNRA to include many, but not all, of the land included in the study. The lands included within the expansion will be known as the Rim of the Valley Unit. The bill will enable NPS and the local community to better protect natural resources and habitats, and provide members of the community with improved access to nature for recreational and educational purposes. It will provide NPS with the authority to: Implement capital improvements (i.e. trails, roads, facilities for public enjoyment) Monitor and study wildlife and ecosystems Participate in cooperative conservation and recreation planning Provide technical assistance for resource protection and recreation planning Contribute financially to projects that protect important natural resources Acquire land through donation, exchange, or purchase from will sellers; directly manage NPS lands The expansion of the SMMNRA boundaries respects private property rights and existing local land use authorities. It will not require a land owner to participate in any conservation or recreation activities, and it will not put any additional restrictions on property owners. The bill does not allow for land acquisition through eminent domain. To view a map of the proposed expansion under the Rim of the Valley Corridor Preservation Act, click here. To view the fact sheet about the legislation, click here. ###
05.13.16	05.13.16 Rep. Schiff Applauds Governor Brown’s Inclusion of Funds for Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) praised Governor Brown for including $10 million in his revised budget to support the implementation of the Earthquake Early Warning system in California. “I am very pleased by Governor Brown’s decision to request $10 million in state funding for the Earthquake Early Warning system, and I look forward to additional details as to how this funding will accelerate the deployment of a robust early warning system. The federal government has provided substantial financial support already, and the state’s backing will go a long way towards having a fully functional system in place before a major quake strikes. We know the ‘big one’ is coming -- it’s just a matter of when, and the sooner we get the early warning system up and running, the better prepared we will be.” A limited earthquake early warning system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley, and other west coast universities, in conjunction with the U.S. Geological Survey, has already been deployed in a beta testing phase and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. Congressman Schiff has been a leader on the issue in Congress, securing $5 million and $8.2 million respectively, in the Fiscal Year 2015 and Fiscal Year 2016 Appropriations bills specifically for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. Earlier this year, he was joined by 40 other members of Congress in urging the Appropriations Committee to continue to provide strong funding in Fiscal Year 2017. It is estimated that the system in California will cost approximately $23 million to build out, and roughly $11 million/year for operation and maintenance. ###
05.12.16	05.12.16 House Passes Rep. Schiff Amendment to Opioid Legislation to Study Creation of National Database to Prevent “Doctor Shopping” Washington, DC – This week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation to help combat the opioid crisis, H.R. 4641, which would create an Interagency Taskforce to update and clarify guidelines for pain management. It would convene the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Department of Defense (DOD), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and other agencies, to modify and update best practices for chronic and acute pain management and for doctors who prescribe pain medication. H.R. 4641 would include agencies at the federal level, as well as state medical boards, health care practitioners, pharmacists, experts from both the pain and addiction recovery community, actual patients, and other stakeholders. During the debate on the bill, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) offered an amendment that was passed unanimously, that would require the Task Force to consider ways to improve the sharing of data collected from State Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs) across the country, including consideration of a national database. PDMPs allow physicians and pharmacists –among other eligible clinicians – to access a patient’s prescription drug history in an electronic database for controlled substances. This allows health care professionals to assess the risk for individual patients, identify signs of opioid abuse, and intervene before addiction spirals out of control. PDMPs also prevent “doctor shopping” activities by individuals with no legitimate medical needs. And while individual state-run PDMPs are effective, there is no system currently in place to allow data to be shared nationally to deter “doctor shopping” across state lines. The Schiff amendment encourages the Task Force to study the coordination and sharing of data between all State PDMPs, and a potentially national database. Schiff spoke during the debate on his amendment: “While information sharing between some adjacent State PDMPs currently exists to prevent illicit ‘doctor shopping’ activities from occurring across state lines, I believe it’s time that we boost efforts to strengthen this sharing across all State PDMPs. I recently met with physicians from my district who described from their experience how prevalent the issue of ‘doctor shopping’ is – particularly in the state of California – and how it is becoming more and more common for individuals with histories of opioid abuse to attempt to receive illicit prescriptions in nearby states. With passage of this amendment, I urge the Task Force to explore the benefits of establishing a national PDMP that will vastly improve our ability to prevent and disincentivize ‘doctor shopping’ in all regions of the country – and I look forward to working with other concerned members on this important topic.” Schiff’s full remarks in support of his amendment can be found here. The legislation passed the House Wednesday night 412-4.
04.20.16	04.20.16 Rep. Schiff Delivers Open Letter to President Obama on House Floor on the Armenian Genocide Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution in Congress, spoke on the House Floor and delivered an open letter to the President of the United States, Barack Obama, urging him to recognize the Armenian Genocide in his final year in office in advance of the 101st anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. The commemoration of the genocide will take place on Sunday, April 24. Watch the speech, or read the text below (as delivered): Dear Mr. President: In 2009, less than a year after assuming the Presidency, you accepted the Nobel Peace Prize. You began your acceptance of this honor by acknowledging that it was bestowed, at the “beginning, and not the end, of my labors on the world stage.” You spoke on that day with eloquence and conviction about fundamental human rights – rights that are endowed not by accidents of birth like nationality or ethnicity or gender, but by our common humanity. And the principles that you articulated have indeed guided and defined your presidency. In your foreign policy, you have emphasized the rights of ethnic and religious minorities worldwide and put these causes closer to the center of our foreign policy. You have extended aid to refugees fleeing horrific violence. You established the Atrocities Prevention Board to coordinate and monitor our efforts to prevent mass atrocities and genocide. And in a few days, you will have a chance to add to your legacy. On April 24th, the world will mark 101 years since the systematic extermination of 1.5 million Armenians by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923. The facts of the slaughter are beyond dispute. And I know you are well-acquainted with these horrors visited upon the Armenian people, having spoken eloquently about them as Senator. I have sat with survivors of the Genocide. Men and women, their numbers dwindling year after year, and heard them recall the destruction of their lives and their families and all they had known. As children, they were forced from their homes and saw their families beaten, raped, and murdered. They fled across continents and oceans to build lives in our nation. Mr. President, for them and for their descendants, the word “genocide” is sacred because it means the world has not and will not forget. To deny genocide on the other hand, is profane. It is, in the words of Elie Wiesel, a “double killing.” This April 24th will be your final opportunity to use the presidency to speak plainly about the genocide. In past years as President, you have described the campaign of murder and displacement against the Armenian people as a “mass atrocity,” which it surely was. But, of course, it was also much more, and you have avoided using the word genocide even though it has been universally applied by scholars and historians of the period. In fact, as you know better than most, the Ottoman Empire’s campaign to annihilate the Armenian people was a prime example of what Rafael Lemkin was trying to describe when he coined the very term “genocide”. I know that as you consider your words this year, you will hear the same voices as in the past who will tell you to hold your tongue and speak in euphemisms. They will say that the time is not right or that Turkey is too strategically important or that we should not risk their ire over something that happened a century ago. Mr. President, regardless of what you say on April 24th, there can be little doubt that Turkey will do exactly as it has always done in its relations with the United States – and that is whatever Turkey believes to be in its self-interest. Many of our European allies and world leaders, including Pope Francis, have recognized the genocide, yet they have continued to work closely with Turkey, because that has been in Turkey’s interest. The same will be true after U.S. recognition of the Genocide. I dearly hope, as do millions of Armenians descended from genocide survivors around the world, that you take this final opportunity to call the Armenian Genocide what it was – Genocide. To say that the Ottoman Empire committed this grotesque crime against the Armenians, but that their campaign of extermination failed. And that, above all, we will never forget and we will never again be intimidated into silence. Let this be part of your legacy, and you will see future Administrations follow your example. When you spoke in Oslo, more than 7 years ago, you closed your remarks by returning to the counsel of Dr. Martin Luther King and said, “I refuse to accept the idea that the 'isness' of man's present condition makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the eternal 'oughtness' that forever confronts him." Mr. President, confronting painful, difficult but vital questions “is” who you are. Help us be the America we “ought” to be, that beacon of freedom and dignity that shines its light on the darkness of human history and exposes the vile crime of genocide. Sincerely, Adam Schiff
04.08.16	04.08.16 Rep. Schiff Provides Detailed Map of National Park Service’s Recommendation for Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Boundary Expansion On February 16, 2016, the National Park Service released its final recommendation on the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resources Study, which examined the possibility of expanding the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) to include the Rim of the Valley Corridor, which can be viewed here. This recommendation is not binding and as Rep. Schiff moves forward with drafting legislation to expand the SMMNRA boundary, he is providing a more detailed map for the public to solicit feedback on the NPS proposal. Click here to view the map. Representative Schiff encourages the public to share their thoughts with him regarding the final report and the boundaries you would like to see via email at SchiffROTV@mail.house.gov. Background: In 2008, Congress passed Rep. Schiff's bill directing the National Park Service to conduct a special resource study to determine the feasibility of providing federal protection to the Rim of the Valley Corridor – an area which stretches from the existing Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, through the Simi Hills and Santa Susanas, Verdugos, and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. The study explored whether any portion of the Rim of the Valley study area was eligible to become a unit of a national park system or added to an existing one, and how the resources could be protected and best utilized by the public. In the spring of 2015, the National Park Service released its draft report, and offered four alternatives – Alternatives A through D – and opened up the conversation for public comment. In their draft report, the Park Service designated Alternative C the preferred alternative. Alternative A would result in a continuation of current management, and thus no action. Alternative B would authorize the SMMNRA to create partnerships within the study area, but result in no boundary adjustments; NPS involvement would come in the form of technical assistance and cooperative partnerships to establish an interconnected system of parks, habitat and open space. Alternative C would expand the SMMNRA boundary to include areas within the Rim of the Valley study area and focus on areas closest to dense urban populations for the purposes of connecting people to parks; it would include the full range of NPS tools and authorities to protect habitats, provide access to recreation and education, and provide NPS technical assistance and capital improvements. Finally, Alternative D would expand the boundaries set forth in Alternative C to include more resource and wildlife protections. In response to the draft report, approximately 1800 members of the public, government agencies, organizations and other institutions submitted their comments to both the NPS and Congressman Schiff’s office. The comments were overwhelmingly in favor of Alternative D – the most expansive of the alternatives. Last year, Schiff and other Members of Congress urged the Park Service to adopt alternative D in their final report. In their letter to the NPS, the Members wrote: “[The] Los Angeles congressional delegation colleagues have joined together to support Alternative D — a more expansive option that will provide for more connections between urban populations and nature and better wildlife habitat protection. If we don't act now to preserve these wildlife corridors, they will be gone for good and, along with them, a lot of what we love about Los Angeles." The final report recommended another alternative, which combined parts of previous alternatives C and D. A map of the recommendation can be examined online here along with the final report: Congressman Schiff is now working to draft legislation based on the NPS recommendation and feedback from members of the community and interested stakeholders. ###
04.07.16	04.07.16 Rep. Schiff Announces 2016 Congressional App Challenge Winners Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced the winners of the annual congressional science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) academic competition, the Congressional App Challenge, for the 28th Congressional District. The competition aims to foster an early interest and engagement in STEM education and technology by challenging students to develop an application (“app”). Justin Park, from Crescenta Valley High School won first place for his app, Digit, – to help mass-produce low budget prosthetics for amputees. The runners up, also from Crescenta Valley High School, were Andrew Dertli and Lyron Co Ting Keh for their Locker Master App and Taeklim Kim and Nicolas Doubrosky for their Attendance Checker App. The students were inspired to participate in this challenge by their teacher, Dr. Gregory Neat. “Students participating in this challenge never fail to impress me,” said Rep. Schiff. “The applications designed by these students are so clever, sophisticated and useful – they demonstrate the enormous creativity of young people in our community. They give me every confidence that the next generation will help to keep our country competitive in this technologically driven age. If this contest is any indication, we’ll have some amazing talent headed to Silicon Valley.” Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, the competition is open to all high school students who live in or attend high school in the 28th Congressional District. High school students compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. More information about the winners and their Apps: Justin Park – Digit App (1st Place) Digit serves to help amputees who would otherwise not be able to have prosthetics. By mass-producing the internal components and 3D printing the outside, prices can be kept low, and the savings will be passed on to the patient. With low costs and easily made parts, Digit serves to provide an affordable way to allow amputees to return to their normal lives quicker, anywhere in the world. Fitting in the market between modern day prosthetic hooks and $11,000 prosthetic hands, Digit is controlled by a consumer grade neural sensor to allow the user to control the hand with the mind, rather than muscle sensors. To view a video of his app, click here. Andrew Dertli, and Lyron Co Ting Keh – Locker Master App (2nd Place) We developed an electronic locker system for students to sign up on. It removed all the hassle of turning in forms and fighting for lockers on the first day. Now, students can go to our webpage online and register themselves. They will receive a locker based on their preferences and the preferences of others. A school admin can log on any time to view, edit, and remove student-locker pairs from the website. Our clients(secretaries and principal/assistant-principals of our school), are trying it out with a test group of students to prepare the web-app for use in the coming school year. To view a video of their app, click here. Taeklim Kim and Nicolas Doubrosky – Attendance Checker (Team Project) App (3rd Place) This app is an early version of an attendance checker for school clubs and other groups. It is designed so that any computer with Java installed will be able to run the app. The app needs an external database of all students named “data” in order to run. When the code runs, it takes in all attendance input from the user, and then compiles the information into a single excel file that contains the list of students with their attendance record. Students are identified by their 6-digit ID number issued by our high school on this program. To view a video of their app, click here. ###
04.05.16	04.05.16 Nearly 80 Members of Congress Urge Census Bureau to Expand Data Collection by Census Bureau on LGBT Individuals Data Would Enable Government to More Effectively Regulate and Legislate on LGBT Issues Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), along with 76 other Members of Congress sent a bipartisan to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) urging the Committee to include report language in its Fiscal Year 2017 bill that expresses support for expanded data collection by the Census Bureau on lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender individuals. In the letter the Members write: “Despite tremendous progress in the fight to secure equal recognition under the law, LGBT Americans continue to face discrimination in facets of everyday life such as in employment, housing, and even in the justice system. There is also compelling evidence that many, particularly transgender people, are at greater risk of being victimized by violence, as well as facing a variety of other challenges. While the Census Bureau took an important step forward in 2013 by including the marital status of same-sex couples as part of ACS data on families, the fact remains that we know little else about the social and economic circumstances of the LGBT population at large. Expanded data collection on LGBT people is needed to help policymakers and community stakeholders understand the full extent of these disparities, as well as identifying the needs of these communities so they can be better served. It is also crucial to our ability to respond with effective and sensible policy solutions that address the unique needs of this vulnerable population. For these reasons, we believe that the Census Bureau should advance plans to expand LGBT data collection in future national surveys and urge you to assist us in reaching this goal.” The letter was signed by 78 Members of Congress, including Schiff and Ros-Lehtinen, who led the letter, and Reps. David Cicilline (D-RI), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Joe Heck (R-NV), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY),Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CA), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), and Mark Takano (D-CA). The full letter, with the text below, can be found here: Dear Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Honda: We write to request the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) include report language in its Fiscal Year 2017 bill that expresses support for expanded data collection by the Census Bureau on lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender individuals. As you know, the Bureau routinely collects demographic information through the decennial census and the annual American Census Survey (ACS). The federal government, states, and local communities rely on Census and ACS data to determine how resources should be allocated to meet the needs of certain populations. Despite this critical mission, neither of these assessments nor any other major federal population survey currently asks respondents to share their sexual orientation and gender identity. This means that even the most basic of statistics – the number of people who identify as LGBT – cannot be counted. Despite tremendous progress in the fight to secure equal recognition under the law, LGBT Americans continue to face discrimination in facets of everyday life such as in employment, housing, and even in the justice system. There is also compelling evidence that many, particularly transgender people, are at greater risk of being victimized by violence, as well as facing a variety of other challenges. While the Census Bureau took an important step forward in 2013 by including the marital status of same-sex couples as part of ACS data on families, the fact remains that we know little else about the social and economic circumstances of the LGBT population at large. Expanded data collection on LGBT people is needed to help policymakers and community stakeholders understand the full extent of these disparities, as well as identifying the needs of these communities so they can be better served. It is also crucial to our ability to respond with effective and sensible policy solutions that address the unique needs of this vulnerable population. For these reasons, we believe that the Census Bureau should advance plans to expand LGBT data collection in future national surveys and urge you to assist us in reaching this goal. Therefore, we respectfully recommend that the Committee include the following report language in the accompanying report of its Fiscal Year 2017 CJS bill: “The Committee is aware of concerns regarding the lack of reliable data on the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) population in the United States. The Committee believes that the availability of such data on the size, location, and circumstances of the LGBT population would be useful to policymakers and researchers. Therefore, the Committee urges the Bureau to study the feasibility of expanding data collection on the LGBT population in its future federal population surveys and to report to the Committee within 180 days on its plans.“ The Census Bureau’s data collection efforts has always played a significant role in our ability to understand the communities that we represent and how best to represent them. LGBT Americans – like every American – deserve to be counted and recognized in all federally-supported surveys. We appreciate your consideration of our request and your willingness to engage on this critical issue. Sincerely,
04.02.16	04.02.16 Rep. Schiff Statement on Azerbaijan's Military Assault Against Nagorno Karabakh Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: "I am deeply disturbed by and condemn this terrible new escalation in Azerbaijan's aggression against Nagorno Karabakh in the form of a significant military assault which killed 18 Armenian soldiers and at least one civilian -- a young boy. That this attack comes just hours after Azerbaijan's President Ilham Aliyev returned from meetings in Washington, D.C. with Vice President Biden and Secretary Kerry demonstrates that the policy of the United States and the Minsk Group is simply not working. "Until Azerbaijan faces strong and meaningful consequences over their policy of escalation and violence and its self-serving refusal to agree to international monitoring of the Line of Contact, there is little chance of resolving the conflict and avoiding further bloodshed. The true victims of this policy are the people of Artsakh who simply want to live free of sniper fire and mortar barrages and to exercise their right of self determination." ###
03.28.16	03.28.16 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual 2016 Student Art Competition with Online Voting for “People’s Choice” Winner Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he will host the annual Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit for the 28th District, featuring students’ artwork from the 28th Congressional District, on Sunday, April 10, 2016. The Congressional Art Competition receives submissions from all across the country. The winner from each Congressional District has their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. This year, 53 students from 22 schools located in the 28th District participated in the competition. In addition, for the last several years, Rep. Schiff hosts a “People’s Choice” award, which will be decided through an online vote. To vote for the “People’s Choice,” constituents should go to Rep. Schiff’s website under Art Competition. Voting will be open Monday, March 28 through Wednesday, April 6, 2016. “I am continually blown away by the talent and creativity displayed in the artwork that is submitted from students around the District each year, and this year is no exception,” said Schiff. “I look forward to seeing all of these incredible entries in person and welcoming artists and their families to celebrate their accomplishments. I am equally excited to see who our community members choose as their own 'People’s Choice' pick – so don’t forget to visit my website and vote!” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide the opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. The first place winner’s artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, the piece awarded second place will hang in the Congressman’s Washington, D.C. Office for one year, the piece awarded third place will hang in his Burbank District Office for one year and the “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will be displayed in Rep. Schiff’s Hollywood District Office. The winners of the contest will be announced at the 28th Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit on Sunday, April 10, 2016. All student participants will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition. The exhibit will be held at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge at Van de Kamp Hall located at 1418 Descanso Drive, La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011. Parking and admission to Van de Kamp Hall are free. Exhibit viewing will begin at 1:00 pm and the Forum and Awards Presentation will take place at 3:00 pm. Light refreshments will be served. To RSVP, please contact Teresa Lamb Simpson in Rep. Schiff’s Burbank District Office at (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555. ###
03.24.16	03.24.16 Rep. Schiff, Rep. DelBene and 39 Members Urge Increased Funding to Construct Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Suzan DelBene (D-WA) were joined by 39 colleagues in Congress – primarily from California, Washington, and Oregon – in sending a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging them to increase federal funding level to $16.1 million in the Fiscal Year 2016 to fully build and maintain an earthquake early warning system on the West Coast. Schiff first secured $5 million in funding for the system in FY15 and Congress increased funding to $8.2 million for FY16. This year, the members are requesting $16.1 million in funding. It is estimated that a full system of sensors will cost $38.2 million to build out along the West Coast, with annual operating and maintenance costs of $16.1 million. A limited earthquake early warning system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley, University of Washington, and the University of Oregon in conjunction with the United State Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed in a beta testing phase and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. “It is imperative that Congress help to fund construction and continued maintenance of an earthquake early warning system along the west coast,” said Rep. Schiff. “The west coast resides on top of hundreds of fault lines – making our residents and infrastructure particularly vulnerable to earthquakes. The technology has proven itself both in testing here in the United States as well is in countries like Mexico and Japan and it would be irresponsible not to fund this critical technology before the next ‘big one’ hits.” “While the Pacific Northwest is one of the most beautiful places to live, its landscape also presents unique challenges,” said Rep. DelBene. “Unfortunately, we know all too well earthquakes can cause great devastation and the U.S. Geological Survey has told us it’s only a matter of time before the next big one,” Rep. DelBene said. “We can and must make smart investments now in resources and research efforts to help prevent future natural disasters from becoming national tragedies.” Schiff and DelBene were joined on the letter by Representatives Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), and Maxine Waters (D-CA). In the letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, the Members wrote: Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: As you craft the Fiscal Year 2017 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you provide the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) with $16.1 million for the construction, operation and maintenance of a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. The USGS, in collaboration with Caltech, UC Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon has developed an Earthquake Early Warning system that detects waves radiating from the epicenter of a quake and would provide people with several to tens of seconds of warning in California, and up to few minutes in Washington and Oregon through their phones, computers and other media. With advanced notice, people can take cover, automated systems can be triggered to slow down trains and manage the power grid, doctors can pause surgeries, and more. The technology has been tested and proven to work effectively. FEMA has estimated that earthquakes cost the United States, averaged over the long term, more than $5 billion a year. This common-sense investment will save lives, protect businesses, and could make a real difference in more rapid recovery for local communities, the federal government and the economy as a whole. Support in both Congress and the Administration has grown over the past few years. In his FY2017 budget, the President requested the highest level for the system yet – $8.2 million, and we appreciate the Committee’s support for the system in recent years. While we cannot predict when and where the next major earthquake will hit, we must do all we can to prepare ourselves so that we can mitigate the injuries, destruction, and chaos as much as possible. We appreciate your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you. Sincerely, ###
03.23.16	03.23.16 Intel Committee Ranking Member Schiff – Trump and Cruz Comments on Muslims and Torture Appalling, Dangerous to National Security Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “Some of the statements from presidential candidates in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Brussels have been, quite simply, appalling and dangerous to our national security. “Torture is immoral and illegal. It is also a great way to get people to say anything to make the pain stop, and send authorities chasing false leads. Comments by Donald Trump espousing the virtues of torture are spoken by a person with no national security experience and who obviously knows little about how to obtain reliable and accurate intelligence. Comments by Senator Cruz are also as offensive and ill-informed as they are counterproductive. His demagogic suggestion that we ‘patrol’ Muslim neighborhoods and put the entire Muslim community under the glare of suspicion will lead to greater radicalization at home and feed into the ISIS narrative abroad. It also would set a modern precedent of singling out entire communities and ethnicities for unequal treatment and protection under the law. “These proposals by leading candidates for the presidency show that claiming to oppose ‘political correctness’ is often a subterfuge for expressing the most divisive and bigoted views. These calls for torture and religious policing have never worked, will never work, and should never be attempted. Instead, the U.S. must continue to take strong military action abroad when necessary, build the capacity of foreign governments to counter terrorism, and work to defeat the terrorists' message with our own, positive vision – not one of exclusion, anger, bigotry and torture.” ###
03.17.16	03.17.16 Rep. Schiff Applauds SeaWorld Decision to Phase Out Orca Captive Breeding Program Schiff: Ensures “Current Generation of Captive Orcas Will Be The Last” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), author of the ORCA Act which would phase out the captivity of orcas so that their display ends with this generation by prohibiting the breeding, the wild capture, and the import or export of orcas for the purposes of public display, released the following statement after SeaWorld’s announcement: “SeaWorld's decision to end captive breeding and make no additional wild captures in the future, means that the current generation of captive Orcas in their parks will be the last. The partnership they are making with the Humane Society, with its focus on rescue, rehabilitation, and advocacy on important marine issues not only represents a change in their business model, but an exciting new direction for the company. These changes are something that advocates have been urging for years, and I think SeaWorld will find that visitors will reward their actions with a renewed interest in the parks. “Last year, I introduced the ORCA Act to end the breeding and wild capture of Orcas and with these changes today, SeaWorld is making this change a reality. Congress should now pass the ORCA Act to make these changes permanent across the country, not just at SeaWorld, but in all parks.” Background: In 2015, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Orca Responsibility and Care Advancement (ORCA) Act. This landmark legislation would phase out the captivity of orcas so that their display ends with this generation. Specifically, it would prohibit the breeding, the taking (wild capture), and the import or export of orcas for the purposes of public display. This legislation would also allow for the orderly phasing out of the display of this species, giving orca-holding facilities time to transition to a more humane future. The current global population of captive orcas has two sources – wild capture and captive breeding programs. Under current federal law, the federal government can issue permits for the capture or import of orcas for the purposes of public display. This is how, in the past, U.S. display facilities legally acquired orcas from the wild. While a wild capture of an orca has not occurred in U.S. waters since 1976, and wild-caught orcas from other parts of the world have not been imported since 2001, permits can still be issued legally. All other captive orcas have been bred in captivity. These practices would be prohibited under the ORCA Act. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is currently working to update decades-old federal regulations for captive marine mammals. However, while updated standards may improve the welfare of smaller, more adaptable marine mammals, no amount of regulation can ensure that orcas thrive while in captivity. Unlike other intelligent animals, there is no indication that the population of captive orcas will see any relief. Recently, Ringling Bros. Circus announced that it will retire its performing elephants, and the National Aquarium announced that it is retiring its dolphins. Until today, no such announcements had been made for the population of captive orcas in the U.S., and in fact, holders of captive orcas had been doubling-down on their belief that captivity is not detrimental to the health or well-being of orcas. In 2014, Reps. Adam Schiff and Jared Huffman, and 38 members of Congress called on USDA to take immediate steps to ensure the regulations protecting captive orcas and marine mammals reflect modern science. In a bipartisan letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the members of Congress urged his department to immediately update Animal Welfare Act (AWA) regulations for captive marine mammals, which have not been updated since 1995. The legislation can be viewed online here, and a fact sheet about the ORCA Act can be viewed online here. ###
03.07.16	03.07.16 Rep. Schiff Statement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) issued the following statement: When I announced my opposition to Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation last year, I made it clear that for any trade deal to earn my support, I must be confident that it will address the already historic and growing income inequality in America -- not make matters worse. I have always accepted the premise that expanded trade, if fair, would increase our economic growth. But if that increased prosperity accrues only to those who have already done well, and comes at the cost of further losses to middle class and working families, it is not a bargain worth making. After reviewing the now-concluded Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and considering the views of those in support and those opposed, I have concluded that the agreement is likely to exacerbate income inequality and as a result I intend to oppose the agreement if it's brought to the floor for a vote. In my statement on the TPA legislation, I identified concerns that my constituents and I have had over certain sections of the proposed TPP, and what would be necessary to address them. One of those concerns was currency manipulation by our trading partners, a practice that places American workers at a severe disadvantage and has cost our economy countless billions in lost wages. I believed then, as I do now, that the TPP must include strong and enforceable provisions addressing currency issues. Similarly, it is vital for TPP to include strong labor standards, environmental protections, and human rights guarantees, along with truly enforceable mechanisms to ensure compliance. In addition, the investment dispute process must not permit foreign investors to gut domestic labor, environmental and other protections already in place or have a chilling effect on countries working to pass those protections. These provisions are important in their own right, but they take on even greater significance when considered in light of their impacts on the disparity in wealth. Unfortunately, the TPP fails to include such pivotal safeguards and enforceable standards. The Administration and supporters of the TPP argue that, nonetheless, this deal is our opportunity to write the rules of global trade, particularly in the Pacific where China commands a growing influence. I understand that goal and I share it, and I fully concur that there are compelling geopolitical reasons to expand our engagement in the Pacific. I also recognize and appreciate that the deal preserves important protections for intellectual property rights and copyright, a vital issue for the creative industry that I am so proud to represent. For these reasons, I hope that a subsequent Administration can negotiate a different kind of treaty for the Pacific region, and one that better protects American workers while also expanding our influence in the region. American workers and businesses can outcompete anyone on an even playing field, but I'm not convinced that TPP provides one. Our nation has always prided itself on its upward mobility, and a strong middle class. To compete and win globally, America should be investing far more in education, training to prepare workers for high-skilled jobs, infrastructure, and data-driven industries. Until we do more to ensure that American workers have the support they need and deserve, and that trade agreements are structured to broadly benefit the American people, I will continue to view them with a healthy skepticism. And the TPP as it currently stands does not meet these essential requirements. ###
03.02.16	03.02.16 Reps. Schiff and Brownley to Host Town Halls to Discuss Legislation to Expand and Preserve Rim of the Valley Corridor Los Angeles, CA – On Tuesday, March 8, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) will host a town hall event in Los Angeles, and another town hall along with Rep. Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village) in Oak Park on Wednesday, March 9. The town halls will allow constituents, advocates and homeowners to discuss the final report on the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resources Study which examined the possibility of expanding the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) to include the Rim of the Valley. The report recommends a significant expansion of the existing recreation area, and has been delivered to Congress and the public. Rep. Schiff is working on legislation to make this expansion a reality, and is gathering input from community stakeholders. EVENT ONE: TOWN HALL IN LOS ANGELES (HOSTED BY REP. SCHIFF) WHEN: Tuesday, March 8th – 7-8:30PM WHERE: Los Angeles Zoo, Witherbee Auditorium 5333 Zoo Drive Los Angeles, CA 90027 EVENT TWO: TOWN HALL IN OAK PARK (HOSTED BY REP. BROWNLEY, WITH REP. SCHIFF AS GUEST) WHEN: Wednesday, March 9th – 7-8:30PM WHERE: Oak Park High School Room G-9 899 N. Kanan Rd Oak Park, CA 91377 Schiff encourages the public to share their thoughts with him regarding the final report via email at SchiffROTV@mail.house.gov. Background: Last month, the National Park Service (NPS) released its final report on the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resources Study, which examined the possibility of expanding the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) to include the Rim of the Valley. The report recommends a significant expansion of the existing recreation area, and has been delivered to Congress and the public. After legislation sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) passed in 2008 authorizing the Interior Department to examine the feasibility of increasing the size of the Recreation Area by encompassing part or all of this corridor and preserve it within our National Park system was signed into law, this report is the next step towards the process of preserving the Rim of the Valley Corridor for future generations. In their report, the Park Service recommended expanding the existing SMMNRA boundary to include significant portions of the study area, more than doubling the size of the SMMNRA. Its objectives are to protect natural resources and habitats and provide people with better access to nature for recreational and educational purposes. It also authorizes the Park Service to provide technical assistance to the community. The Park Service recommended adding 170,000 acres to the SMMNRA to bring the total to 323,000 acres. Now that the Park Service has delivered its final report, Congressman Schiff will work with the community and stakeholders to determine what should be included in the final legislation to make the expansion a reality. In 2008, Congress passed Rep. Schiff's bill directing the National Park Service to conduct a special resource study to determine the feasibility of providing federal protection to the Rim of the Valley Corridor – an area which stretches from the existing Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, through the Simi Hills and Santa Susanas, Verdugos, and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. The study explored whether any portion of the Rim of the Valley study area was eligible to become a unit of a national park system or added to an existing one, and how the resources could be protected and best utilized by the public. In the spring of 2015, the National Park Service released its draft report, and offered four alternatives – Alternatives A through D – and opened up the conversation for public comment. In their draft report, the Park Service designated Alternative C the preferred alternative. Alternative A would result in a continuation of current management, and thus no action. Alternative B would authorize the SMMNRA to create partnerships within the study area, but result in no boundary adjustments; NPS involvement would come in the form of technical assistance and cooperative partnerships to establish an interconnected system of parks, habitat and open space. Alternative C would expand the SMMNRA boundary to include areas within the Rim of the Valley study area and focus on areas closest to dense urban populations for the purposes of connecting people to parks; it would include the full range of NPS tools and authorities to protect habitats, provide access to recreation and education, and provide NPS technical assistance and capital improvements. Finally, Alternative D would expand the boundaries set forth in Alternative C to include more resource and wildlife protections. In response to the draft report, approximately 1800 members of the public, government agencies, organizations and other institutions submitted their comments to both the NPS and Congressman Schiff’s office. The comments were overwhelmingly in favor of Alternative D – the most expansive of the alternatives. Last year, Schiff and other Members of Congress urged the Park Service to adopt alternative D in their final report. In their letter to the NPS, the Members wrote: “[The] Los Angeles congressional delegation colleagues have joined together to support Alternative D — a more expansive option that will provide for more connections between urban populations and nature and better wildlife habitat protection. If we don't act now to preserve these wildlife corridors, they will be gone for good and, along with them, a lot of what we love about Los Angeles." The final report recommended another alternative, which combined parts of previous alternatives C and D. A map of the recommendation can be found below, and can be examined online here along with the final report:
02.16.16	02.16.16 Rep. Schiff Applauds Park Service Releasing Final Rim of the Valley Report – Recommends Adding 170,000 Acres to Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Schiff Will Work on Legislation with Community in Coming Months Washington, DC – Today, the National Park Service (NPS) released its final report on the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resources Study, which examined the possibility of expanding the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) to include the Rim of the Valley Corridor. The report recommends a significant expansion of the existing recreation area, and has been delivered to Congress and the public. After legislation sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) passed in 2008 authorizing the Interior Department to examine the feasibility of increasing the size of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area by encompassing part or all of this corridor and preserve it within our National Park system was signed into law, today's report is the next step towards the process of preserving the Rim of the Valley Corridor for future generations. In their report, the Park Service recommended expanding the existing SMMNRA boundary to include significant portions of the study area, more than doubling the SMMNRA. Its objectives are to protect natural resources and habitats and provide people with better access to nature for recreational and educational purposes. It also authorizes the Park Service to provide technical assistance to the community. The Park Service recommended adding 170,000 acres to the SMMNRA to bring the total to 323,000 acres. Now that the Park Service has delivered its final report, Congressman Schiff will work with the community and stakeholders to determine what should be included in the final legislation to make the expansion a reality. Schiff commented: “In 2008, Congress passed legislation I authored to study expanding the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include the land known as the Rim of the Valley Corridor. After the study was funded, the National Park Service (NPS) began the long process of assessing its suitability for inclusion. The NPS today released its report – the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resource Study and Environmental Assessment – and recommended to Congress that the unit be substantially expanded. This is a significant milestone in the very long journey to protect and preserve this vast and amazing open space. “The broad recommendation from the Park Service would more than double the size of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area and include much of the study area originally laid out by Congress. Such an expansion will enable the National Park Service, local governments, and private citizens to better preserve green space and increase access to recreational opportunities for our urban and suburban communities. I applaud the Park Service for embracing a vision of an expanded recreation area to preserve this wonderful natural landscape. I wish, however, that the Park Service went even further in some of the areas as was clearly the hope of the many thousands of constituents who submitted public comment and advocated for an even bigger park, as provided for in Alternative D of the Park Service’s draft report. “Now that we have the completed study in hand, we will move forward with the work of crafting legislation to make the park expansion a reality. I look forward to continuing to consult with the community and stakeholders as we pursue our shared goal of preserving the natural resources in our area for generations to come.” Background: In 2008, Congress passed Rep. Schiff's bill directing the National Park Service to conduct a special resource study to determine the feasibility of providing federal protection to the Rim of the Valley Corridor – an area which stretches from the existing Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, through the Simi Hills and Santa Susanas, Verdugos, and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. The study explored whether any portion of the Rim of the Valley study area was eligible to become a unit of a national park system or added to an existing one, and how the resources could be protected and best utilized by the public. In the spring of 2015, the National Park Service released its draft report, and offered four alternatives – Alternatives A through D – and opened up the conversation for public comment. In their draft report, the Park Service designated Alternative C the preferred alternative. Alternative A would result in a continuation of current management, and thus no action. Alternative B would authorize the SMMNRA to create partnerships within the study area, but result in no boundary adjustments; NPS involvement would come in the form of technical assistance and cooperative partnerships to establish an interconnected system of parks, habitat and open space. Alternative C would expand the SMMNRA boundary to include areas within the Rim of the Valley study area and focus on areas closest to dense urban populations for the purposes of connecting people to parks; it would include the full range of NPS tools and authorities to protect habitats, provide access to recreation and education, and provide NPS technical assistance and capital improvements. Finally, Alternative D would expand the boundaries set forth in Alternative C to include more resource and wildlife protections. In response to the draft report, approximately 1800 members of the public, government agencies, organizations and other institutions submitted their comments to both the NPS and Congressman Schiff’s office. The comments were overwhelmingly in favor of Alternative D – the most expansive of the alternatives. Last year, Schiff and other Members of Congress urged the Park Service to adopt alternative D in their final report. In their letter to the NPS, the Members wrote: “[The] Los Angeles congressional delegation colleagues have joined together to support Alternative D — a more expansive option that will provide for more connections between urban populations and nature and better wildlife habitat protection. If we don't act now to preserve these wildlife corridors, they will be gone for good and, along with them, a lot of what we love about Los Angeles." The final report recommended another alternative, which combined parts of previous alternatives C and D. A map of the recommendation can be found below, and can be examined online here along with the final report: Representative Schiff encourages the public to share their thoughts with him regarding the final report via email at SchiffROTV@mail.house.gov. ###
02.11.16	02.11.16 Momentum Builds as Rep. Schiff Announces $8.2 Million for West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System Included in President’s Budget Obama Included Funding at Urging of Schiff, Lawmakers; To Date, Congress Has Appropriated Almost $15 Million Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that President Obama included $8.2 million for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system in his Fiscal Year 2017 budget released this week, a significant increase from last year’s budget – a $5 million request – and further recognition of the importance of the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. The Earthquake Early Warning system is being developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley and the University of Washington in conjunction with the U.S. Geological Survey. It can provide users with seconds to even a minute or more of warning before shaking hits, depending on the distance to the epicenter. A limited system already deployed for test users has proved that the early warning technology is sound. “The question is not if, but when, the big one will hit the Western United States,” said Rep. Schiff. “A fully-built out West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system is critical to saving lives and protecting infrastructure by giving us a heads up before an earthquake arrives. I’m pleased the President has once again recognized the importance of this continued federal investment. But the federal government cannot, and will not, fund this system on its own, and I'm also grateful to see several influential state lawmakers including State Senator Jerry Hill, Assemblymember Adam Gray and Senator Robert Hertzberg take up the cause.” In 2015, Schiff secured $8.2 million in the FY 2016 funding bill specifically designated for a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. The $8.2 million was a substantial increase over what the President requested in his budget. In 2015, Schiff led a group of 35 Members of Congress – primarily from California, Washington, and Oregon – to request that the President include funding for an Earthquake Early Warning System for the West Coast for the FY 2017 budget. Additionally, the final FY16 budget funded the Early Warning System at a higher level than the $5 million originally included in the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. To date, Schiff and other congressional leaders have helped secured $14.7 million for the build out of the system. This week, leaders in the California State legislature, State Senator Jerry Hill, Assemblymember Adam Gray and Senator Robert Hertzberg, unveiled a bill to provide $23.1 million in vital funding for an early warning system. SB 438 and AB 1346 will strike language in current law that prohibits General Fund dollars from being used to fund the Earthquake Early Warning System. Additionally, the bills will appropriate funds to install the needed seismic sensors, to implement the telecommunications technology, and to get the system up and running. The language included in the President’s budget is below, and can be found here.: Natural Hazards Programs – The 2017 budget provides $149.7 million for Natural Hazards, $10.7 million above the 2016 enacted level. This activity provides scientific information and tools to help understand and respond to hazards such as volcanoes, earthquakes, tsunamis, solar flares, and landslides with a goal of reducing potential fatalities, injuries, property damage, and other social and economic effects. This activity also includes efforts to characterize and assess coastal and marine processes, conditions, vulnerability, and change. The budget continues funding of $8.2 million in the Earthquake Hazards program for West Coast earthquake early warning and $3.0 million in the Volcano Hazards program to improve disaster response. ###
02.02.16	02.02.16 Rep. Schiff Applauds White House Announcement of New Resources and Support for Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), who helped last year to secure $8.2 million in the FY 2016 funding bill specifically designated for a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System and $5 million the previous year, released the following statement before the start of the White House Earthquake Resilience Summit which he will participate in: “The West Coast is due for another earthquake, and the question is not if, but when, the next big one will hit,” said Schiff. “When it does, it will undoubtedly cause significant damage to homes, businesses and infrastructure, cause injuries, and potentially result in fatalities. We have the real opportunity to mitigate that damage and save lives if we act now on an early warning system. We have had significant success over the past few years in Congress funding the effort to fully build out a West Coast Early Warning System, but the federal government cannot – and will not – fund the system in its entirety. And so I am very pleased that the private sector is getting involved and lending their support, as many companies based on the West Coast will benefit tremendously by the implementation of an early warning system. We are also hearing encouraging words of support from the affected states which I hope will soon be followed by more concrete pledges of financial assistance.” Last year, Rep. Schiff secured $8.2 million in the FY 2016 funding bill specifically designated for a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. The $8.2 million was a substantial increase over what the President requested in his budget. In 2015, Schiff also led a group of 35 Members of Congress – primarily from California, Washington, and Oregon – to request that the Appropriations Committee fund an Earthquake Early Warning System for the West Coast. The final FY16 budget funds the Early Warning System at a higher level than the $5 million originally included in the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. The funding level in the FY16 budget also exceeded the President’s $5 million budget request earlier this year. Senator Feinstein, Rep. Schiff and 35 other Members of Congress sent a letter to the President in October 2014, asking him to include funding for the West Coast Early Warning System for FY2016. In December 2014, Congress passed a funding bill for FY2015 which included an additional $5 million specifically for the Earthquake Early Warning System, bringing the total funding for the system for FY2015 to $6.5 million. Below is the White House fact sheet about the U.S. government’s executive action and increased state government and private sector support: FACT SHEET: Obama Administration Announces Steps to Increase Nation’s Resilience to Earthquakes The Obama Administration remains committed to improving the resilience of our communities, States, and the Nation to important hazards, such as earthquakes. A 2015 scientific assessment from the U.S. Geological Survey shows that more than 143 million Americans in the continental United States could experience potentially damaging earthquakes. This estimate is nearly double the previous 2006 estimate because populations have grown in earthquake-prone areas and there are now better methods for estimating earthquake risks. Improving warning systems, better building protections, and informed citizens can help mitigate losses, injuries, and deaths, and also can help communities recover faster. Today, the White House is hosting an Earthquake Resilience Summit to highlight how a whole-community approach—including scientists, engineers, public officials, nonprofit entities, and private companies—is the best approach for improving resilience to earthquakes and other hazards; and to explore how science and technology can improve our ability to detect and respond to earthquakes in the future. At the summit, the Administration and stakeholders will announce new commitments toward a future with greater earthquake safety based on next-generation approaches to earthquake-resilient building and warning technologies, including: Executive Order for Enhanced Seismic Safety President Obama today signed an Executive Order: Establishing a Federal Earthquake Risk Management Standard, which will improve the capability of federal buildings to function after an earthquake, reducing risks to people, lowering post-quake recovery costs, and making it easier for communities to recover swiftly. The Executive Order requires that Federal agencies responsible for the design and construction of a new building, or an alteration to an existing building, ensure that the building is constructed or altered using the earthquake-resistant design provisions in the most current building codes. The latest building codes, which encompass the current understanding of the earthquake hazard potential, are one of the best ways to achieve earthquake safety and preserve the lives of the people who live in a building. This Executive Order will also help ensure that federal assets are available to support recovery efforts. Federal Actions to Advance Earthquake Early Warning On February 1, 2016, the United States Geological Survey (USGS), along with partners from state government, universities, and private foundations deployed a beta operational phase of ShakeAlert, the West Coast earthquake early warning test system. This next-generation production prototype will allow beta users to develop and deploy pilot implementations that take protective actions based on the USGS ShakeAlert warnings in areas with sufficient station coverage. USGS and the United States Forest Service are announcing that they have begun working together to explore streamlined and expedited permitting for siting of seismic monitoring stations with an initial emphasis on sites important for earthquake early warning and other locations supporting life and safety. The independent Federal Communications Commission recently issued one set of new proposed rules, which is out for public comment, and another, released January 28, 2016, which is not yet out for comment, that pertain to earthquake early warning and other next-generation warning systems. The proposed rules would: facilitate the delivery of narrowly geo-targeted alerts, such that warnings can be targeted to receivers’ locations and everyone in a location can receive a warning; reduce alert delivery delays throughout the IPAWS (Integrated Public Alert and Warning System) and other alerting systems; integrate Emergency Alert System tests, including actual alert signals and text, into community public safety exercises; ensure that alerts will be consistent across different technology platforms, including those that use the internet; and facilitate community feedback to alerts using 911 and social media so that alert initiators can know that the alerts are effective and allow them to efficiently direct resources to areas in need. State and Local Commitments to Advance Earthquake Early Warning State of Oregon: Governor Kate Brown is committed to increasing Oregon’s seismic readiness. Having just hired a State Resilience Officer, the Governor is directing the officer to prominently feature earthquake early warning in the state resilience planning efforts as the officer’s first order of business. Oregon also took a significant step in 2015 by acquiring 15 seismometers for nearly $700,000. The Governor wants the State to build on that investment in collaboration with universities and other stakeholders interested in saving lives and capacity through early warning. A crucial component of Oregon’s effort is the integration of a robust public-education program giving businesses, schools, critical facilities, and the public actionable information on how to respond to earthquake alerts. The City of Eugene, Oregon: The City of Eugene, Oregon, will host public forums to further explain earthquake preparedness, answer questions the community may have, and empower the community with knowledge and resources. The Eugene Water and Electric Board: Eugene Water and Electric Board (EWEB) and the University of Oregon will place four earthquake early warning sensors on EWEB property, which will contribute to the Pacific Seismic Northwest Network, a USGS facility maintained by the University of Washington and the University of Oregon. The sensors will improve the coverage and reliability of the Pacific Seismic Northwest Network. State of Washington: Today, Governor Jay Inslee is announcing commitments that the State of Washington is making in earthquake and tsunami preparedness and resilience, in order to protect lives and speed the recovery of communities in the aftermath of a large-scale seismic event. Washington has experienced approximately 15 major destructive earthquakes in the last 150 years, and its proximity to the Cascadia Subduction Zone—a major fault line off the Pacific Coast of North America—presents the dangers of significant earthquakes and tsunamis in the region. The new commitments include seismic improvements for state building standards; investing $4.6 million to map, identify, and better anticipate geologic hazards; and a tsunami safe haven project that will open in June 2016 at Ocosta Elementary School in Westport, Washington. Additional Commitments to Advance Earthquake Early Warning The Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation is announcing $3.6 million in grants to advance the ShakeAlert system. The funding to California Institute of Technology; University of California, Berkeley; University of Washington; and the U.S. Geological Survey supports the research behind the technology to detect earthquakes, determine likely magnitude, and provide a warning before shaking begins, potentially saving thousands of lives and millions of dollars in damage. This new funding will take advantage of the particular strengths of each research group to advance three important areas of early warning: UC Berkeley scientists will pursue a novel plan to detect the shaking caused by earthquakes, harnessing the same sensors used in smart phones to count your daily steps; Caltech scientists will work to develop a humanlike decision-making process to gather information from seismic networks to issue prompt and reliable alerts; and University of Washington scientists will study implementation of a network of sensors on the ocean floor to provide early warning for earthquakes from the Cascadia Subduction Zone, the largest threat for a catastrophic earthquake in the Pacific Northwest. Puget Sound Energy is announcing a $100,000 grant to the University of Washington Pacific Northwest Seismic Network for the purchase of eight strong-motion seismometers that will be installed throughout Washington during the next four years. These modern, low-delay instruments will significantly improve earthquake early warning capability. Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) has recently agreed to join the ShakeAlert beta system and is beginning to work with UC Berkeley’s Seismological Laboratory to identify potential applications. This will allow both automated and human actions in the seconds before an earthquake, which will protect lives, lessen property damage and ensure rapid service restoration. PG&E values the potential for early earthquake warnings for their customers and employees. PG&E will continue its participation in the test phase and system build out for California and the West Coast. Intel Corporation has committed to help lead an effort to ensure private sector businesses play an appropriate role in building and sustaining the ShakeAlert Earthquake Early Warning. Initial meetings are being held this week. As Oregon’s largest private sector employer and largest capital investor, Intel designs and builds its latest generations of microprocessors and other computing innovations at four major campuses in the Portland Metro area. Intel views ShakeAlert as a key part of its Crisis Management program, and has pledged to lead efforts to bring the high-technology community to the table to support it. The business impacts from a Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake would be extreme. Having advance notice of an event will allow Intel and other private sector companies to safely react to an earthquake before it occurs, saving millions of dollars per hour in potential downtime. Businesses such as Intel will be able to advise staff to take protective actions, such as Drop, Cover and Hold, as well as automatically shut down elevators and production. Intel’s leadership role will catalyze their suppliers and customers, as well as other businesses, to support the ShakeAlert system. Amazon Catalyst is announcing a research grant to the University of Washington to integrate GPS capabilities into the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network in order to better discriminate the size of large earthquakes, a problem that current earthquake warning systems cannot solve well ###
01.27.16	01.27.16 Schiff and Blumenthal Introduce Legislation to Give Gun Victims Their Day in Court and End Gun Industry’s Liability Shield Legislation Would Repeal Liability Shield Gun Sellers and Manufacturers Currently Enjoy Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) introduced legislation – the Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act – to ensure that the victims of gun violence are allowed to have their day in court and that the gun industry – manufacturers, sellers and interest groups – is not shielded from liability when it acts with negligence and disregard for public safety. The bill would repeal the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA). In 2005, Congress passed PLCAA, which provides immunity in state and federal court from civil liability for manufacturers, distributors, and dealers of firearms, as well as their trade associations, in most negligence and products liability actions. This immunity from liability under well-established common law principles that apply to everyone else in society is unique to the gun industry. As a result, gun makers and sellers have a lesser obligation to act with reasonable care for the safety of the public. It also means that gun sellers can turn a blind eye to straw purchasers or traffickers who may buy hundreds of weapons and traffick them to others with no background check whatsoever. As most gun companies are responsible businesses, this immunity only protects the worst actors in the industry. “Good gun companies don’t need special immunity from the law, and bad gun companies certainly don’t deserve it,” said Rep. Schiff. “Other industries across our country like automotive manufacturers, pharmaceutical firms and even cigarette companies don’t enjoy special protection under the law, and there is no reason to give the gun industry the right to act negligently. As part of our larger effort to stop gun violence in the country, everyone – including gun companies – should be held accountable for their actions.” "Victims of law-breaking gun makers and dealers deserve a day in court – fair rights and remedies restored by this measure,” said Sen. Blumenthal. “Alone among all industries, guns are protected by a near absolute wall of legal immunity that bars the courthouse doors to victims. Our proposal would unlock the courthouse doors – holding gun makers and dealers accountable, and giving them a strong incentive to make safer, smarter products. Breaking the industry's legal shield means that bad actors can be made to pay, and good ones have a fairer playing field." “Making the gun industry immune from lawsuits effectively handed them a license to kill. Congress intentionally let gun makers and sellers off the hook for the murder and mayhem they knew would happen. And they looked the victims’ families in the eye and said ‘Tough luck. There’s nothing you can do about it’,” said Sen. Chris Murphy (D-CT). “The gun lobby doesn't own Congress like it used to - this legislation is essential to ending the firearms industry's grip on Washington.” “A decade ago, Congress shamefully passed a law that protects gun manufacturers and dealers from liability for the tragedies caused by their negligence,” said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). “This legislation is necessary to give victims of gun violence and their families recourse for irresponsible practices in the industry, and in turn encourage gun manufacturers and dealers to adopt common sense practices that will save lives in Maryland and across the country.” When Congress passed the PLCAA, its supporters argued that it was necessary to protect the gun industry from frivolous lawsuits, but that victims of gun violence would not be shut out of the courts. Senator Larry Craig, the sponsor of the legislation and at the time a member of the NRA’s board, stated during debate on the Senate floor, “This bill will not prevent a single victim from obtaining relief for wrongs done to them by anyone in the gun industry.” In reality, numerous cases around the nation have been dismissed on the basis of PLCAA even when the gun dealers and manufacturers acted in a fashion that would qualify as negligent if it involved any other product. Victims in these cases were denied the right to even discover or introduce evidence of negligence. This legislation allows civil cases to go forward against irresponsible bad actors. Letting courts hear these cases would provide justice to victims while creating incentives for responsible business practices that would reduce injuries and deaths. “My family was not only robbed of a loved one, we were also robbed of our right to justice under the law,” said Hector Adames, uncle to gun violence victim Josh Adames. “Nothing can bring Josh back, but we can do so much more to save other families from the pain and suffering my family went through. For too long Congress has shielded the gun industry from responsibility for the people its products kill each year. It’s time to repeal this law, and hold the corporate gun lobby accountable for the pain, suffering and death it causes every single day in this country.” "PLCAA is as low as it gets – a truly evil piece of special interest legislation that not only gives the gun industry protection from liability that no other industry in our nation enjoys, but it strips the rights of already devastated families,” said Dan Gross, President of Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence. “The Brady Center is proud to have worked with Representative Schiff, Senator Blumenthal, and Senator Murphy to craft the Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act. This bill is a golden opportunity for politicians in Congress to show some backbone and put the rights of the American people before the profits and interests of the corporate gun lobby. We are calling on all members in the House and Senate to co-sponsor this important bill and immediately schedule a vote to pass it." “For a decade, the gun industry has enjoyed sweeping immunity from liability that has slammed the courthouse doors shut against valid lawsuits seeking to hold gun manufacturers and dealers responsible for their products,” said Chelsea Parsons, Vice President for Guns and Crime Policy at the Center for American Progress. “The legislation being introduced today restores the balance to allow civil litigation to proceed again the gun industry, which will provide redress for victims of gun violence and their families and incentivize industry actors to implement best practices to prevent negligent and criminal use of their products. Congress should act quickly to pass this crucial legislation." “In 2005, Congress enacted one of the biggest giveaways to private industry in American history by handing gun makers and dealers broad immunity from civil lawsuits,” said Adam Skaggs, Senior Counsel at Everytown For Gun Safety. “In any other business, a victim of a negligent manufacturer or retailer can seek relief in a civil lawsuit—but Congress slammed the courthouse door shut for victims of gun violence. More than 300,000 Americans have been killed with guns since Congress passed the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act would right that wrong and make the gun industry play by the same rules as every other American business.” "The current protections that give immunity to gun dealers and gun manufacturers are just one more example of irresponsible, dangerous steps taken by a Congress in the gun lobby's grip," said Peter Ambler, Director of Americans for Responsible Solutions. "By the removing these protections, the Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act will provide victims and survivors of gun violence tools to finally hold negligent dealers and manufacturers accountable while also creating new incentives for responsible business practices. Passing this bill is the responsible, commonsense thing to do for public safety, and Americans for Responsible Solutions urges Congress to act." Watch a live stream of the press conference introducing the Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act. To read the one page background document on the Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act, please click here. To read the legislation, please click here. To read the Center for American Progress background document on the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act and its history, please click here. ###
01.15.16	01.15.16 Rep. Schiff Seeks Nominations for 2016 Woman of the Year Award Burbank, CA – Every March, in recognition of Women’s History Month, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honors outstanding women from the communities of the 28th Congressional District. Rep. Schiff invites nominations from anyone residing in the district, which includes the cities and communities of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood. “Each year I look forward to receiving nominations for the ‘Woman of the Year Award’ and learning more about what individuals are doing in the 28th District to improve our community. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region,” Rep. Schiff said. “I urge constituents to contact my office and help us recognize some of the admirable women in our communities by nominating them for this year’s award.” Constituents are encouraged to nominate women in their community -- while there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who through their work or volunteerism have improved the quality of life in our community. Nominations should include a written description of your nominee’s accomplishments, the home address, phone number and e-mail of the nominee, and the nominator's name and contact information. Please try to include specific examples of leadership and all of your nominee’s philanthropic efforts and service. Nominations can be sent to Mary Hovagimian at mary.hovagimian@mail.house.gov. The deadline for nominations is February 15, 2016.
12.22.15	12.22.15 Rep. Schiff Announces Extension of Lautenberg Amendment for Iranian Religious Minorities Fleeing Persecution Included in Omnibus Washington, D.C. – Congress included a one-year extension of a program to assist Iranian religious minorities fleeing persecution in the FY 2016 omnibus spending bill as the result of a bipartisan effort led by Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Trent Franks (R-AZ). The bill was signed into law by President Obama this week. Commonly referred to as the “Lautenberg Amendment,” the provision extends a program established by the State Department and the government of Austria to provide a safe pathway to asylum for Iranian refugees at a critical time when the Iranian regime perpetuates campaigns that vilify Christians, deny the Holocaust and persecute Jews, and incarcerates Baha'i leaders who are put on trial for their beliefs. The provision today predominantly facilitates the resettlement of Iranian Jews, Christians, Baha’is, as well as other historically persecuted religious minorities from the Former Soviet Union, Eastern Ukraine, and Crimea. The provision previously expired on September 30, 2015, and will now be extended through September 2016. “The Lautenberg Amendment has served as a lifeline for over two decades to tens of thousands of Jewish, Christian, Baha’i, and other religious minorities fleeing Iran and the FSU,” Schiff said. “Without it, there would be no recourse or refuge for many of these individuals. I am pleased that Congress supported my request for its extension, which will continue to provide a beacon of hope for those seeking safety from discrimination and abuse solely for their religious beliefs.” Background: The Lautenberg Amendment was first enacted in 1990 at the request of former Senator Frank R. Lautenberg to provide expedited refugee processing and a presumption of eligibility for historically persecuted religious minority groups from the former Soviet Union and Southeast Asia. It was then expanded in 2004 to include minority groups from Iran and has since been reauthorized every year. The program does not provide access to the U.S. refugee resettlement program, but rather eases the burden of proof for the applicant only after the State Department has invited a particular group to apply for refugee status for “reasons of humanitarian concern.” In FY15, 4,180 cases were admitted to the U.S. using the “Lautenberg” mechanism – this includes 2,362 from the former Soviet Union and 1,818 from Iran that were processed through Vienna. Renewal of the Lautenberg Amendment is needed because there is no U.S. embassy in Tehran where religious minorities can apply for refugee status. The provision, therefore, makes it possible for religious minorities to obtain transit visas to Austria where they can safely undergo processing for protection. Without enactment of this provision, the Austrian government can limit or refuse to grant transit visas for Iranians seeking refugee status, thus eliminating a safe way for these refugees to escape perilous conditions. Today, the program’s beneficiaries are predominantly Iranian Jews, Christians – including many Armenians, and Baha'is, as well as other religious minorities from the FSU, eastern Ukraine, and Crimea. All individuals who are admitted under the program enter the U.S. as refugees and are, therefore, subject to the annual numerical cap on refugee admissions. Entrants must also undergo the same criminal and security background checks and rigorous vetting prior to entering the United States. ###
12.17.15	12.17.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Announces Major Funding Increase for West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System of $8.2 Million Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-Burbank, CA) announced that Congress has included $8.2 million in the FY 2016 funding bill specifically designated for a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. The $8.2 million is a substantial increase over what the President requested in his budget and is a great victory for California and the West Coast. Congress included funds allocated for the system in a spending bill for the first time last year at $5 million. The Earthquake Early Warning System is currently being developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon in conjunction with the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). It can provide users with seconds to even a minute or more of warning before shaking hits, depending on the distance to the epicenter. A limited system already been deployed for test users has proved that the early warning technology is sound. It will cost an estimated $38.2 million to build out a full system for the west coast, with annual operating and maintenance costs of $16.1 million. “By increasing the funding for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System, Congress is sending a message to the western states that it supports this life saving system. But the federal government cannot do it alone and will need local stakeholders, both public and private, to get behind the effort with their own resources,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “This year, Congress allocated an additional eight million dollars, a very substantial sum in these budget constrained times, and I thank Chairman Calvert for his support. The Early Warning System will give us critical time for trains to be slowed and surgeries to be stopped before shaking hits – saving lives and protecting infrastructure. This Early Warning System is an investment we need to make now, not after the ‘big one’ hits.” Earlier this year, Schiff led a group of 35 Members of Congress – primarily from California, Washington, and Oregon – to request that the Appropriations Committee fund an Earthquake Early Warning System for the West Coast. The final FY16 budget funds the Early Warning System at a higher level than the $5 million originally included in the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. The funding level in the FY16 budget also exceeds the President’s $5 million budget request earlier this year. Senator Feinstein, Rep. Schiff and 35 other Members of Congress sent a letter to the President last October, asking him to include funding for the West Coast Early Warning System for FY2016. In December 2014, Congress passed a funding bill for FY2015 which included an additional $5 million specifically for the Earthquake Early Warning System, bringing the total funding for the system for FY2015 to $6.5 million. This was the first time Congress included funds specifically allocated for the system in a spending bill. That $5 million in funding allowed those developing the statewide system to begin purchasing and installing additional sensors, build new stations, speed up the ShakeAlert system, and come closer to deploying comprehensive early earthquake warning coverage throughout earthquake prone regions of the West Coast. The explanatory language for the funding bill reads: Natural Hazards.-Funding for the Natural Hazards program includes $60,503,000 for earthquake hazards, of which $8,200,000 is provided to transition the earthquake early warning demonstration project into an operational capability for the West Coast. ###
12.07.15	12.07.15 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual Congressional Student STEM Challenge Burbank, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced the start of the annual congressional science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) academic competition, the Congressional App Challenge, for the 28th Congressional District. The competition aims to foster an early interest and engagement in STEM education and technology by challenging students to develop an application (“app”). Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. Throughout the competition period, participating students will be provided opportunities to engage with various STEM educational partners, tech entrepreneurs, and tech experts located in the District to mentor and assist them with their app development. “There is a drastic shortage of STEM graduates needed to fill the over 8 million new STEM jobs projected over the next decade,” said Schiff. “This challenge aims to help meet that long-term need by encouraging students to develop an early interest in STEM fields through creating their own app. Hopefully, we find some innovative entrepreneurs within our community!” The House Student STEM Challenge is open to all high school students who live in or attend high school in the 28th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must register and submit their apps at https://www.challenge.gov/challenge/congressional-app-challenge-ca-28-rep-schiff/ during the competition submission period now open through January 15, 2016. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found here or at http://www.congressionalappchallenge.us/educational-resources/. ###
12.03.15	12.03.15 Intel Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on San Bernardino Mass Shooting Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement: "This morning, I was briefed by the FBI on the investigation into the mass shooting in San Bernardino. They are conducting a thorough investigation into the suspects to determine the motive for this attack and whether there is any connection to a terrorist organization or evidence of domestic radicalization. At this point it is too early to rule anything in or out – it may have been workplace violence or it may have been more. I am confident the FBI will get to the bottom of what took place and why, and whether anything might have been done to prevent the attack. “Early this week, we paused on the House Floor for a moment of silence in honor of the victims of the Colorado Springs shootings. This has become a painful ritual, repeated week after week, as hundreds of Americans are killed in an epidemic of mass violence. Soon, we will have another such moment, this time in memory of victims in my home state of California at a shooting not far from my district. While we do not yet know the motivation of these particular attackers, we do know enough about the nature of mass shootings to do something about them. “There are many reasonable proposals in Congress that would, without question, reduce gun violence and mass shootings in America, chief among them – requiring a background check for every gun sale. We also need to make it easier to preclude people with serious mental health problems from gaining access to some of our most deadly weapons. Why does anyone need a military style assault weapon with an extended ammunition clip for hunting or self-protection? The simple answer is, they don’t. And we don’t need to have law enforcement outgunned by mass shooters. “These reforms may or may not have impacted the shooting in San Bernardino or its lethality, but they would save lives in countless other cases. My constituents do not accept that weekly mass shootings are the new normal for America, or that we are incapable of doing anything about it – and neither do I. I do not want to lose another father, mother or child to a crazed gunman, and I do not want America to be known around the world for its gun violence. I am ready to trade the moments of silence, for moments of action.” ###
11.23.15	11.23.15 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Protect Children From Predators by Requiring Criminal Background Checks Washington, DC – Every year, thousands of youth recreation programs are a vulnerable target for child predators who hope to gain access to their next victims under the guise of seeking employment or volunteer opportunities. In as many as 34 states, child-serving organizations do not have reliable access to both state and national FBI fingerprint-based background checks -- the gold standard for criminal background checks – because access to the FBI system is often limited, unreasonably time-consuming, or prohibitively expensive. The bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act (CPIA), introduced by Rep. Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Bishop (R-MI), will make FBI fingerprint-based background checks permanently and widely available to youth-serving organizations nationwide. "Parents deserve to know that their children are in safe hands when they participate in after-school programs, sports camps, or meet with their mentors," Schiff said. "And this is why all youth-serving organizations must be equipped with access to the FBI fingerprint-based background check system to thoroughly screen prospective employees and volunteers that will work with kids. The results of a multi-year pilot program provides striking evidence that our legislation would be effective in catching child predators who attempt to avoid detection by moving from state to state.” “Congress has a duty to ensure every youth-serving organization in America can afford and access the gold-standard of nationwide background checks. Anything less is unacceptable,” said Bishop. “Keeping children safe was a top priority of mine in the Michigan Senate, and I am proud to continue that work on a bipartisan basis in Congress.” Background: Currently, many child-serving organizations have the ability to request state background checks on prospective employees and volunteers that will work with children. However, a state background check alone is no match for the FBI’s finger-print based system –- the only one capable of performing a nation-wide search and preventing child predators from avoiding detection by moving from state to state. The bipartisan CPIA builds on the success of the PROTECT Act’s Child Safety Pilot which ran from 2003 until 2011. The pilot provided access to FBI fingerprint background checks for a variety of child-serving non-profits. The pilot conducted over 105,000 background checks and 6.2% of potential volunteers were found to have criminal records of concern – over 6,500 individuals. In addition, over 40% of individuals with criminal records of concern had crimes in states other than where they were applying to volunteer – meaning that only a nationwide check would have flagged these individuals’ criminal records. The criminal offenses among some of these applicants included convictions for criminal sexual conduct with a child, child endangerment, and manslaughter. To build on the success of the Child Safety Pilot and make these essential background checks permanently and widely available to youth-serving organizations, we have introduced the Child Protection Improvements Act. The legislation would: Ensure that organizations that serve children, the disabled, and the elderly all across the country have access to FBI fingerprint searches in a timely and affordable manner. Protect privacy rights by ensuring that the specifics of a criminal record are never disclosed without explicit consent by the volunteer or employee and providing an opportunity for individuals to correct errors in their records. Does NOT authorize any new spending. The program will be supported by the fees assessed for background checks by the requesting nonprofit organizations. Does NOT require organizations to utilize FBI fingerprint background checks, only makes them available to those wishing to utilize them. An earlier version of this bipartisan legislation passed the House in 2010 on a 413-4 vote.
11.19.15	11.19.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on Bill to Halt Syrian Refugee Program Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement after voting against H.R. 4038, the American SAFE Act: “Concerns about security after the nightmare we saw in Paris are understandable, and safety must come first. As the Ranking Member on the Intelligence Committee, I continually review the dangers facing the country and our vulnerabilities and what I can say is this: There are persistent threats to the country from ISIS, Al Qaeda and homegrown extremists, but they do not come from women and children fleeing the violence in Syria. "On average, it takes one and a half to two years to be vetted and come to the United States as a refugee. Of the approximately 2,000 Syrian refugees resettled in the United States since the civil war began in that country, none has been arrested for a terrorism related offense. None. “Refugees, and refugees from this region specifically, already undergo a far more rigorous screening process than anyone else seeking admission to this country, including multiple layers of background checks, in-depth national security vetting, biometric identifiers, and in-person interviews. Additional precautions, if warranted, can always be taken, but none require us to halt the refugee process entirely as the current bill would do. "If we want to improve security – and we must – we should concentrate on our real vulnerabilities, at our airports, with Americans and Europeans who have joined the fight in Syria and Iraq and could come here as citizens or tourists without a visa, and on the fringes of society where people are at risk of being inspired by ISIS to commit acts of violence. We should not bar the door to people fleeing ISIS violence, often religious minorities, who have nowhere else to go. America is a strong and compassionate country and we must not be deterred from acts of humanity by acts of barbarity."
11.09.15	11.09.15 Rep. Schiff Responds to SeaWorld Decision to Phase Out Orca Shows in San Diego Los Angeles – On Monday, November 9, 2015 Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) responded to SeaWorld’s announcement that their San Diego park will phase out killer whale shows: “The decision by SeaWorld to phase out killer whale shows in San Diego is a welcome step along the path towards ending the captivity of these magnificent creatures,” said Schiff. “Much more needs to be done, however, and I would urge the company to curtail the breeding of their orcas and partner in the creation of ocean sanctuaries. The fact still remains that as long as SeaWorld holds orcas in captivity, the physical and psychological problems associated with their captivity will persist.” On Friday, Schiff announced that he will introduce the Orca Responsibility and Care Advancement (ORCA) Act. This landmark legislation would phase out the captivity of orcas so that their display ends with this generation. Specifically, it would prohibit the breeding, the “taking” (wild capture), import or export of orcas for the purposes of public display. This legislation will allow for the orderly phasing out of the display of this species, giving orca-holding facilities time to transition to a more humane future. More information on Rep. Schiff’s proposed legislation can be viewed online here.
11.06.15	11.06.15 Rep. Schiff to Introduce ORCA Act to Phase Out Display of Captive Killer Whales Federal Legislation Would Prohibit Breeding, Wild Capture, Import or Export of Species Los Angeles, CA – At a press conference on Friday, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he will introduce the Orca Responsibility and Care Advancement (ORCA) Act. This landmark legislation would phase out the captivity of orcas so that their display ends with this generation. Specifically, it would prohibit the breeding, the taking (wild capture), and the import or export of orcas for the purposes of public display. This legislation will also allow for the orderly phasing out of the display of this species, giving orca-holding facilities time to transition to a more humane future. Rep. Jared Huffman (D-CA), though unable to attend the press conference, is an original co-sponsor of the legislation. “The evidence is very strong that the psychological and physical harm done to these magnificent animals far outweighs any benefits reaped from their display,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “We cannot be responsible stewards of our natural environment and propagate messages about the importance of animal welfare when our behaviors do not reflect our principles. The ORCA Act ensures that this will be the last generation of orcas who live in captivity, and we will appreciate these incredible creatures where they belong – in the wild.” During the press conference, several experts and State Assemblyman Richard Bloom (D-Santa Monica), the sponsor of previous legislation to ban the use of orcas for performance purposes at California aquatic theme parks, spoke in support of Schiff’s bill. “The growing body of scientific evidence is compelling for orcas,” said Dr. Naomi Rose, marine mammal scientist for the Animal Welfare Institute. “They are simply too large, too wide-ranging, too socially complex, and too intelligent to thrive in any-sized concrete enclosure. Orcas do not belong in captivity.” “As a former Marine Mammal Trainer at SeaWorld, I saw firsthand how orcas suffer in captivity,” said former marine mammal trainer Samantha Berg. “No amount of toys, larger tanks, better veterinary care or love and attention from their trainers will ever come close to simulating the richness of their lives in the ocean. We cannot meet their needs in captivity.” "There is no justification for the continued captive display and breeding of orcas for entertainment purposes," Assemblyman Richard Bloom said. "They belong in their natural habitat where they can travel long distances and feed as predators do. These magnificent creatures are much too large and far too intelligent to be confined in small, concrete tanks for their entire lives. It is time to end the practice of keeping orcas captive for human amusement." “The failure of our government to adequately protect captive Orcas based on modern science is shameful, and it’s time to phase out the public display of these intelligent, social animals,” Rep. Jared Huffman said. “Orcas belong in the wild.” The current global population of captive orcas has two sources – wild capture and captive breeding programs. Under current federal law, the federal government can issue permits for the capture or import of orcas for the purposes of public display. This is how, in the past, U.S. display facilities legally acquired orcas from the wild. While a wild capture of an orca has not occurred in U.S. waters since 1976, and wild-caught orcas from other parts of the world have not been imported since 2001, permits can still be issued legally. All other captive orcas have been bred in captivity. These practices would be prohibited under the ORCA Act. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) is currently considering updating decades-old federal regulations for captive marine mammals. However, while updated standards may improve the welfare of smaller, more adaptable marine mammals, no amount of regulation can ensure that orcas thrive while in captivity. Unlike other intelligent animals, there is no indication that the population of captive orcas will see any relief. Recently, Ringling Bros. Circus announced that it will retire its performing elephants, and the National Aquarium announced that it will be retiring its dolphins. No such announcements have been made for the population of captive orcas in the U.S., and in fact, holders of captive orcas are doubling-down on their belief that captivity is not detrimental to the health and well-being of orcas. Other organizations also came out in support of the ORCA Act, including the Humane Society of the United States, Humane Society Legislative Fund and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. “PETA applauds Rep. Schiff for introducing a bill that reflects public opinion in favor of ending the archaic and cruel practice of keeping orcas in captivity,” said Jared Goodman, Director of Animal Law for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). “Everyone from children to members of Congress now recognizes that in SeaWorld’s tanks, orcas suffer both physically and psychologically, are drugged, die prematurely, and lash out as a result of extreme frustration. The passage of this bill would mark the beginning of the end of that kind of marine prison in the U.S.” The proposed legislation can be viewed online here, and a fact sheet about the ORCA Act can be viewed online here. ###
11.04.15	11.04.15 Over Sixty Members of Congress Urge Obama Administration to Extend Humanitarian Parole to 20,000 Syrians Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Dan Donovan (R-NY), along with sixty other Members of Congress, sent a letter to President Obama urging the Administration to move quickly to grant humanitarian parole to those who have already-approved immigrant petitions and family in the United States. Establishment of a parole program would provide emergency relief to more than 7,000 Syrian families – or an estimated 20,000 individual men, women and children – that have already passed initial background checks but for whom no visa is currently available due to annual numerical limitations on immigrant visa issuances. If granted parole, these individuals would be subject to additional layers of rigorous security checks before they could enter the country. A parole program is not a cure-all for the humanitarian crisis in Syria, and it should not preclude a much-needed reassessment of the current U.S. refugee resettlement program in light of the Syrian disaster. However, this small but important step can allow innocent victims of the Syrian conflict to escape increasingly dangerous conditions, all the while reunify thousands of families. In the letter, the Members write: “We write today to encourage you to extend humanitarian parole to the more than 20,000 Syrians who have approved immigrant visa petitions but are currently waiting in the visa backlog. These Syrians—who have already been screened and vetted by the Department of Homeland Security and who have U.S. citizen and lawful permanent resident family members within the United States—can be admitted if your Administration exercises its authority under humanitarian parole.” Other Members signing the letter are Reps. Karen Bass, Xavier Becerra, Don Beyer, Corrine Brown, Julia Brownley, Lois Capps, Michael Caupano, Tony Cardenas, Judy Chu, Steve Cohen, John Conyers, Jim Costa, Joseph Crowley, Suzan DelBene, Ted Deutch, Debbie Dingell, Keith Ellison, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, Luis Gutierrez, Janice Hahn, Alcee Hastings, Michael Honda, Jared Huffman, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Hakeem Jeffries, Hank Johnson, Dan Kildee, Jim Langevin, Barbara Lee, Sander Levin, Ted Lieu, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Carolyn Maloney, Betty McCollum, Jim McDermott, Jim McGovern, Gwen Moore, Seth Moulton, Jerry Nadler, Grace Napolitano, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Beto O’Rourke, Scott Peters, Mark Pocan, Charles Rangel, Kathleen Rice, Bobby Rush, Gregorio Sablan, Jan Schakowsky, Linda Sánchez, Loretta Sanchez, Louise Slaughter, Jackie Speier, Mark Takano, Nikki Tsongas, Juan Vargas, Chris Van Hollen, and Pete Visclosky. The full letter, sent today, can be found below: The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20006 Dear President Obama: We write today to encourage you to extend humanitarian parole to the more than 20,000 Syrians who have approved immigrant visa petitions but are currently waiting in the visa backlog. These Syrians—who have already been screened and vetted by the Department of Homeland Security and who have U.S. citizen and lawful permanent resident family members within the United States—can be admitted if your Administration exercises its authority under humanitarian parole. The Syrian civil war is well into its fourth year with no end in sight. Hundreds of thousands of civilians have been killed, more than 7 million people are internally displaced within Syria, and more than 4 million have sought safety in nearby countries. Unable to safely return to their home country, hundreds of thousands of Syrians have fled to Europe by any means possible; an unknown number have died along the way, including countless children. Furthermore, members of religious minority groups who fear persecution by the growing threat of ISIL -- such as a substantial number from the Christian community -- have also been among the millions who have been displaced. As European leaders struggle to cope with the influx of refugees, we strongly believe that the United States must be part of a comprehensive solution to the crisis. The United States has already taken steps to alleviate the crisis by providing more than $4 billion for humanitarian and refugee assistance in the region. Furthermore, we are encouraged by the Administration’s decision to increase the fiscal year 2016 refugee visa cap and pledge to admit at least 10,000 Syrian refugees next year, as well as its decision to grant temporary protected status to Syrians already inside of the United States. However, more can be done immediately to protect innocent victims of the war in Syria. We strongly urge you to extend humanitarian parole to the 20,730 Syrians who are the beneficiaries of already approved immigrant visa petitions but for whom no visa is available. Utilizing your authority to extend humanitarian parole to Syrians is consistent with your Administration’s decision to parole Haitian orphans following the 2010 earthquake and, most recently, to parole the family members of Filipino World War II veterans. While paroling these individuals would be extraordinary, the magnitude of the humanitarian crisis demands such a response. Many have expressed concern about the potential security risks of Syrian refugees. Admitting those Syrians with approved immigrant visa petitions and for whom the Department of Homeland Security has already performed initial security screenings, is a practical step the Administration can take without jeopardizing national security concerns. Moreover, because these are Syrians for whom a family member has agreed to serve as a financial sponsor, the United States will not need to reallocate funds to these individuals in order to admit and resettle them into the United States. This would allow the United States to focus its resources on Syrian refugees in the most dire of situations. The United States has a moral obligation to assist individuals escaping persecution worldwide. For years the United States has accepted approximately half of all refugee referrals from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. It has also granted humanitarian parole to Jews fleeing persecution in the former Soviet Union and Cubans escaping the Castro regime in years past. While the crisis in Syria presents us with a new challenge, our responsibility to those seeking protection remains unchanged. We stand ready to assist in any way that we can and urge you to act swiftly on the issue of humanitarian parole. Sincerely,
10.28.15	10.28.15 Thirty-Six Members of Congress Urge Administration to Robustly Fund Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Derek Kilmer (D-WA), along with 34 Members of Congress, urged President Obama and the White House’s Office of Management and Budget, to increase the funding level for earthquake hazards programs in their 2017 budget request and more specifically, to provide $16.1 million dollars in funding for an on-shore Earthquake Early Warning System being developed by scientists in Southern California and along the West Coast. Such an early warning system would be enormously helpful in providing residents and first responders with advance notice that could help save lives, avoid injuries, and avert major infrastructure damage by slowing trains to prevent derailment, stopping elevators, pausing surgeries and taking other actions in the event of a major earthquake. In the letter, the Members write: “While we appreciate past investments in earthquake programs and recognize the inclusion of EEW in your FY2016 Budget, full funding of EEW is critical. Therefore, we urge you to request in your FY2017 Budget $16.1 million for the development of this system so that the West Coast will be prepared for the next catastrophic earthquake. This is proven technology that will save lives and reduce the economic impact of an earthquake; it simply needs to be properly funded.” Congress has recognized the critical need for implementation of an Earthquake Early Warning System and provided funding for its development and implementation along the western coast of the United States in providing funding for the system for the previous two fiscal years. Rep. Schiff, who helped secure the funding in both FY 2015 and 2016 for a west coast earthquake early warning system in Congress, commented: “I am encouraged that the support for the west coast Earthquake Early Warning System is growing. Every day, we are one day closer to the inevitable ‘big one,’ and this technology, once implemented, will be an invaluable tool to save lives and property.” Kilmer commented: “We are pushing the President to make this project a top priority because it’s important to the future of the communities we represent on the West Coast. We need an updated and operational Earthquake Early Warning System to serve as eyes and ears and give folks more time if a large quake strikes.” “Earthquake early warning is everyone’s concern,” said Caltech President Thomas Rosenbaum, “and we are very fortunate to have Adam Schiff’s strong support for moving a west coast warning system closer to implementation.” “The University of Washington and the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network appreciate the strong support of Congress in securing funding to help this important work to continue. Earthquake Early Warning is invaluable to protect the millions of Americans living and working across the Pacific Northwest,” said John Vidale, the Director of the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network. “Additional funding will help deploy this system across the region and give individuals from 30 seconds to five minutes of warning for many dangerous earthquake to find cover, ready emergency response, secure data and assets, and prepare for approaching earthquake shaking. We thank Congressman Kilmer for his many years of efforts to increase EEW funding.” Schiff and Kilmer were joined by Reps. Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Lois Capps (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Scott Peters (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Maxine Waters (D-CA). Full text of the letter is below: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: As you prepare your Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 Budget for the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), we strongly urge you to request increased funding for USGS’s earthquake-related programs, including $16.1 million for the development and operation of an on-shore West Coast Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) System. Earthquake Early Warning is proven technology that is already fully operational in countries including Japan and Mexico. USGS, in conjunction with the California Institute of Technology; the University of California, Berkeley; the University of Washington; and the University of Oregon, is currently working to adapt the technology and has developed an on-shore prototype system for test users along the West Coast. The researchers are also working closely with key stakeholders, including the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system in San Francisco and Boeing and Microsoft in the Pacific Northwest, to test and provide feedback on what will be a very valuable system. The 2014 magnitude 6.0 earthquake in Napa, California that caused an estimated $300 million in damages is just one reminder of how important it is that the United States has a robust Earthquake Early Warning system. More recently, national media[1] has reported on the prospects of a magnitude 9 earthquake in the Pacific Northwest and the utility of a warning system. When such an event occurs, it will be one of the most serious disasters the United States has faced. Once fully operational, EEW will provide critical time—from a few seconds to minutes—to take protective action. In fact, the Puget Sound and Portland would receive 1 to 5 minutes of warning—warning that will save lives. Even with just seconds of warning before shaking begins, automated steps can be taken to prevent casualties and mitigate destruction, including slowing or stopping trains; turning off oil and natural gas pipelines; shutting down large manufacturing equipment; stopping elevators and opening their doors; and securing sensitive computer data. The effectiveness of EEW depends on the number and placement of sensors to ensure that there is adequate coverage wherever an earthquake may hit—and this requires additional resources. Congress recognizes the value of this system and has demonstrated its commitment to providing additional resources for EEW by including funding in the FY2015 Omnibus Appropriations Act and continued funding support in the House and Senate FY2016 Interior Appropriations bills. While we appreciate past investments in earthquake programs and recognize the inclusion of EEW in your FY2016 Budget, full funding of EEW is critical. Therefore, we urge you to request in your FY2017 Budget $16.1 million for the development of this system so that the West Coast will be prepared for the next catastrophic earthquake. It is important, however, that this EEW funding does not detract from other earthquake hazards programs, as this research works hand-in-hand with the EEW. This is proven technology that will save lives and reduce the economic impact of an earthquake; it simply needs to be properly funded. Thank you for considering our request. Sincerely,
10.27.15	10.27.15 Rep. Schiff Urges House Leadership to Not Grant Any Blanket Extensions to Implementation of Positive Train Control Schiff: “We Cannot Afford Another Chatsworth or Philadelphia Accident” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to House Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) asking them to ensure that Congress does not provide any more blanket extensions to the implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC), predictive collision-avoidance technology which can override an operator to prevent train collisions and save lives. The technology consists of GPS signals and wayside devices that can detect unapproved train movement or trains going too fast with the ability to stop the train remotely. “While I understand that many in the railroad industry believe an extension to PTC is necessary in order to maintain rail services, I don’t believe this merited an extension that could allow trains to operate without PTC for up to five years,” said Rep. Schiff. “We must not let implementation of PTC be the next issue that Congress will kick down the road in perpetuity. We cannot afford another accident like the 2008 accident in Chatsworth or the more recent one in Philadelphia. I ask that House leadership work with members of Congress and rail companies to ensure that PTC is implemented as fast as possible and no more blanket extensions are given.” The full letter, and background, is below: Dear Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio: I am writing to express my strong concerns regarding Congress’s consideration of a blanket delay in implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC). With the passage of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (P.L. 110-432), Congress mandated a 2015 deadline for railroad carriers to develop a plan for implementing PTC. While I understand that an extension is necessary, I ask that the Committee work to ensure that PTC is implemented in a timely manner and that we make clear that no more extensions are given. The Rail Safety Improvement Act put in place a deadline for the implementation of PTC of December 2015. Seven years after passage, a majority of the railroad services will not meet the December 31st deadline. During that time, the railroad industry has attempted to extend the PTC implementation deadline citing logistical and financial costs as a reason for the delay. I recognize that given the approaching deadline, Congressional action to extend the PTC requirement or providing waivers to railroads that are out of compliance will be necessary. However, I am deeply concerned that a three or five-year, blanket extension will be interpreted by the industry as a waiver of the requirement, and send the message that by failing to meet future deadlines, they can simply come to Congress for additional extensions. This would be a harmful outcome, because the evidence is clear that PTC saves lives. The National Transportation Safety Board has said that since 1969, PTC could have prevented 288 deaths and 6,574 injuries. In 2008, a collision between a Metrolink commuter train and a Union Pacific freight train in Chatsworth, CA, close to my district, killed 25 people and injured 102 more. It was determined that a distracted Metrolink engineer continued past warning signals and onto a section of single track and into the path of the rushing freight train. PTC could have prevented this terrible accident. I recognize that an extension is necessary as we approach the December 31st deadline. However, I ask that you make clear that a short term extension of the PTC deadline will not become a permanent feature of Congressional action, as it has in so many other cases. While we provide flexibility and support to railroad industry that continues to work on PTC implementation, we must make clear that ultimately the installation of PTC technology across our railroad system is the right thing to do. Thank you, and I look forward to working with you on this important issue. Sincerely, Background: In 2008, Rep. Schiff authored legislation – the Rail Collision Prevention Act, which was ultimately included in the Rail Safety Improvement Act – to require all major U.S. railroads to install “positive train control” systems designed to help avoid collisions. These provisions came in response to the 2008 Metrolink-Union Pacific crash in Chatsworth, which killed 25 and injured 135, and a 2005 crash in Glendale where a Metrolink train collided with an automobile that was abandoned on the tracks. That collision killed 11 people and was the deadliest Metrolink crash in its history, until the tragic collision in Chatsworth. Under the Rail Safety Improvement Act, which Schiff helped pass, railroads are required to install the life-saving technology by the end of 2015. However, Congress is pushing for a three-year extension with the ability of individual railroads to request an additional two years of extensions from the Department of Transportation – in effect, granting a five-year extension. Schiff’s 2008 legislation which was signed into law required that: Require both commuter and passenger railroads and freight train that share a track to implement positive train control systems; Requires installation of these systems on all other passenger rail lines and rail lines used to transport hazardous materials; and Authorize the Secretary of Transportation to assess fines up to $100,000 on rail carriers that fail to comply. The bill also mandated a safety analysis on using cell phones and other devices in the cab of the train and reforms the hours of service rule to ensure that train conductors and other personnel receive adequate rest on the job. Here is how positive train control systems work: Digital communications are combined with Global Positioning System (GPS) technology to monitor train locations and speeds. These systems can detect excessive speed, improperly aligned switches, whether trains are on the wrong track, unauthorized train movements, and whether trains have missed signals to slow or stop. If engineers do not comply with signals, the system automatically brings the trains to a stop. ###
10.08.15	10.08.15 Members of Congress to TSA – Reform Screening Procedures for Transgender Passengers Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI) and Brian Higgins (D-NY) along with twenty-nine other congressional colleagues sent a letter to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administration Peter Neffenger urging changes in the way that the agency screens transgender passengers. The letter comes on the heels of reports of a transgender traveler, Shadi Petosky, being detained and put through inappropriate airport security screening procedures by Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) at the Orlando International Airport due to a misunderstanding about her gender identity as a trans-woman. The Members urge the TSA to adopt a screening protocol that does not rely on Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) making often-subjective decisions about an individual’s gender identity. The letter also requests the TSA provide guidance on screening procedures to the transgender community, ensure that TSA personnel receive adequate training on gender identity issues, and requests the TSA to participate in the investigations by the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services into Ms. Petosky’s case. In the letter, the Members write: “It is a sad reality that members of the transgender community face adversity every day. The experiences of many transgender airline passengers such as Ms. Petosky demonstrate that more must be done to ensure transgender individuals are able to travel without fear of facing humiliation or degradation at security checkpoints. While being mindful of enacting the appropriate security precautions to keep all travelers safe, the TSA must also take steps to ensure that its employees are prepared to serve transgender individuals with the dignity, discretion, and respect that they, like all Americans, deserve.” Joining Schiff, Pocan and Higgins in signing the letter were Reps. Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Steve Israel (D-NY), William R. Keating (D-MA), Joseph P. Kennedy (D-MA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jim McDermott (D-WA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Scott Peters (D-CA), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and Jared Polis (D-CO). The text is below: Dear Administrator Neffenger: We write to express our strong concerns regarding the treatment of transgender individuals by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). As you know, a transgender traveler, Shadi Petosky has reported that, on September 21, 2015, she was detained by Transportation Security Officers (TSOs) at the Orlando International Airport due to a misunderstanding about her gender identity as a trans-woman. Unfortunately, Ms. Petosky’s experience is just the latest of a string of reports from travelers across the country. In the days since Ms. Petosky’s story became public, we have heard from numerous members of the transgender community describing harassing and humiliating experiences while going through airport security. While we understand the importance of vigilant airport security, we cannot countenance a security protocol that subjects transgender travelers to this level of indignity. To that end, we urge TSA to complete a thorough review of its current procedures and address any shortcomings that may, however unintentionally, subject transgender travelers to inequitable or improper treatment by security personnel. First, TSA must recognize its procedures regarding the use of full-body scanners present unique challenges for transgender passengers. As you know, TSOs must select a male or female button in order to configure a scanner to a gender-specific setting prior to screening. Under this system, an error-free reading of a passenger’s scan image relies on a TSO making a discretionary determination about a passenger’s sex based on their appearance rather than the gender with which they identify. This protocol may be well-suited to screen some cisgender passengers, but they do so at the expense of singling out transgender or gender nonconforming individuals whose physical appearances may not necessarily match their biological sex. In light of this issue, we urge the TSA to implement a screening protocol that does not rely on TSOs making often-subjective decisions about an individual’s gender identity. As evidenced by Ms. Petosky’s experience and the myriad other stories we have heard recently, such a protocol can put transgender passengers at greater risk of being incorrectly screened, thereby unduly requiring them to undergo a “pat down” -- an additional procedure which many have found to be extremely invasive and degrading. Second, we believe there is insufficient guidance on TSA screening procedures readily available to the transgender community. For example, while the current screening process seems to suggest that it is incumbent upon a transgender passenger to inform personnel of his or her gender identification prior to screening, such a policy has not been published on the TSA’s website or made widely known to the public. Additionally, while TSA has stated transgender passengers may request a private screening, it is unclear based on publicly-available information what a private screening entails, whether a private screening can be requested in lieu of a full-body scanner, or at what point in the security screening process it should be requested. Moreover, there exists no public guidance to reassure transgender travelers that they will not have to reveal the use of any prosthetic devices or binding materials while in a public area. To ensure transgender passengers are fully informed about all security screening expectations, we request that the TSA publishes detailed guidelines on its website to address these commonly asked questions, among others, and to include a clear explanation of the civil rights protections to which all transgender passengers are entitled to during the screening process. Further, we request more prominent visibility of the TSA Cares helpline and other available resources on the TSA website so those with additional questions have a clear and accessible way to gather information on remaining concerns. In addition, we request that all TSA personnel are adequately trained to serve the transgender community. It is insufficient to provide only TSO supervisors with “cultural awareness training.” We ask that such trainings should be required for all TSOs that work with the public, that they be held live and in-person (as opposed to the simple distribution of written materials), and that these trainings specifically cover the particular sensitivities and vulnerabilities of transgender travelers. Finally, we are pleased to hear that the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services have launched an investigation into Ms. Petosky’s case to determine whether there were any civil rights violations. We request the TSA’s full cooperation in this investigation and urge the TSA to maintain transparency by sharing the results of the probe with transgender community advocacy organizations and with the undersigned. It is a sad reality that members of the transgender community face adversity every day. The experiences of many transgender airline passengers such as Ms. Petosky demonstrate that more must be done to ensure transgender individuals are able to travel without fear of facing humiliation or degradation at security checkpoints. While being mindful of enacting the appropriate security precautions to keep all travelers safe, the TSA must also take steps to ensure that its employees are prepared to serve transgender individuals with the dignity, discretion, and respect that they, like all Americans, deserve. We appreciate your willingness to engage on this important issue. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, ### A PDF of the letter can be found here.
10.06.15	10.06.15 Rep. Schiff and Thirty-Five Members of Congress Nominate Pope Francis for 2016 Nobel Peace Prize Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) along with thirty five of his colleagues sent a letter to the Nobel Committee to nominate Pope Francis as the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. The letter, which was circulated to Members before His Holiness’ address to Congress on Thursday, highlights the Pope’s commitment to peace, his leadership in taking on the challenges facing our planet, and his courageous stand for human rights, his pleas on behalf of refugees, and his condemnation of all genocides. Joining Schiff were Reps. Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), André Carson (D-IN), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), James McGovern (D-MA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Brad Ashford (D-NC), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Ted Lieu (D-CA), José Serrano (D-NY), Sam Farr (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX) John Garamendi (D-CA), Gregorio Sablan (D-NMI), Ed Perlmutter (D-OR), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), John Conyers Jr. (D-MI), Lois Capps (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Gerry Connelly (D-VA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), James Langevin (D-RI) and Anna Eshoo (D-CA). The full letter began circulating today, and is below: The Norwegian Nobel CommitteeHenrik Ibsens gate 510255 Oslo, Norway Dear Nobel Committee: As Members of the United States Congress and supporters of the historic mission of the Nobel Foundation, we write to nominate Pope Francis as the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. With unsurpassed eloquence, humility and compassion, the Pope has used his pulpit to exhort people and nations around the world to conduct their affairs with spirituality, morality and integrity. Pope Francis is an articulate and effective voice for fundamental human rights and is highly deserving of recognition by the Nobel Committee. Pope Francis has been a powerful advocate for peace, urging an end to conflict and support for constitutive ties among nations. He has called on the world to use diplomacy and discussion to solve disputes, rather than military force, coercion or intimidation. This commitment to nonviolence, which the Pope has put into practice every day through his words and actions, is at the core of the principles behind the Nobel Peace Prize. Pope Francis has also worked to galvanize the international community to take on global problems, such as the changing climate and environmental degradation. Pope Francis has brought together at the Vatican policy makers from around the world to build support and consensus around the need for a global response to the challenges facing our planet. Through his stature as a spiritual figure, Pope Francis casts the issue of an unhealthy earth in religious terms, emphasizing our joint duty to care for the world and to pass on an unspoiled environment to future generations. Finally, Pope Francis has distinguished himself through his courageous stand for human rights and his condemnations of all genocide, both past and present. Most recently, in condemning the persecution of Christians and other minorities in Syria and Iraq, the Pope has spoken out against the darkest chapters of human history made possible "by general and collective indifference.” As the world struggles to cope with a flood of refugees not seen since the end of World War II, the Pope has emerged as perhaps the leading advocate for relief. The Pontiff has called on the international community to respond meaningfully to this devastating humanitarian disaster. His compassion has also taken the concrete form of inviting a Syrian refugee family to reside in his residence at the Vatican. For all these reasons and many more, we thank you for your consideration of our nomination of Pope Francis for the Nobel Peace Prize. The receipt of such an award would be a profound recognition of the Pope's commitment to furthering the cause of peace around the world. Sincerely, ### A PDF of the letter can be found here.
10.01.15	10.01.15 Reps. Schiff and Israel Wager on Los Angeles Dodgers – New York Mets Playoff Series Washington, DC – With the Los Angeles Dodgers and New York Mets set to square off in the first round of the MLB playoffs – the National League Division Series – Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Steve Israel (D-NY) today announced they had placed a friendly wager on the outcome of the series. The winner of the bet shall receive a local food from their district. Schiff, who represents the areas surrounding Dodger Stadium, wagered gourmet popcorn from Pauline’s Premier Sweets in Burbank, befitting his Hollywood district. Israel, who is a Mets fan representing areas surrounding Citi Field, wagered New York bagels, flown in fresh. Additionally, the loser will wear the tie of the winner’s team and deliver a one minute speech on the House floor extolling the virtues of the team moving on to the next playoff round. “There isn’t any question in my mind that the Boys in Blue will best the Loveable Losers, and I can already taste the delicious New York bagels that will be flown in the day the Mets blow it,” said Schiff. “I’m looking forward to seeing the Dodgers continue in their hunt for Blue October after the Mets are long vanquished. Please make sure the lox is fresh, Steve." “I hope that Adam will also consider sending a broom so that I can sweep his fancy L.A. popcorn off my floor in the same way my beloved Mets will sweep the Dodgers,” said Israel. “Let’s face it; once his team left New York, it was all downhill from there. Let’s go Mets!” The last time the New York Mets met the Dodgers in the playoffs was during the 2006 National League Division Series, a meeting the Mets won 3 – 0, and the time before was during the 1988 National League Championship Series, which the Dodgers won 4 – 3. 1988 was the last year the Dodgers won the World Series. Schiff and Israel are friends in Congress, having both entered the House together in 2001.
09.23.15	09.23.15 Rep. Schiff Circulating Letter Among Colleagues to Nominate Pope Francis for 2016 Nobel Peace Prize Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he is circulating a letter among his colleagues addressed to the Nobel Committee to nominate Pope Francis as the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. The letter, which will be distributed to both Democratic and Republican Members of Congress before His Holiness’ address to Congress on Thursday, highlights the Pope’s commitment to peace, his leadership in taking on the challenges facing our planet, and his courageous stand for human rights, his pleas on behalf of refugees, and his condemnation of all genocides. The full letter began circulating today, and is below: Dear Nobel Committee, As Members of the United States Congress and supporters of the historic mission of the Nobel Foundation, we write to nominate Pope Francis as the 2016 Nobel Peace Prize Laureate. With unsurpassed eloquence, humility and compassion, the Pope has used his pulpit to exhort people and nations around the world to conduct their affairs with spirituality, morality and integrity. Pope Francis is an articulate and effective voice for fundamental human rights and is highly deserving of recognition by the Nobel Committee. Pope Francis has been a powerful advocate for peace, urging an end to conflict and support for constitutive ties among nations. He has called on the world to use diplomacy and discussion to solve disputes, rather than military force, coercion or intimidation. This commitment to nonviolence, which the Pope has put into practice every day through his words and actions, is at the core of the principles behind the Nobel Peace Prize. Pope Francis has also worked to galvanize the international community to take on global problems, such as the changing climate and environmental degradation. Pope Francis has brought together at the Vatican policy makers from around the world to build support and consensus around the need for a global response to the challenges facing our planet. Through his stature as a spiritual figure, Pope Francis casts the issue of an unhealthy earth in religious terms, emphasizing our joint duty to care for the world and to pass on an unspoiled environment to future generations. Finally, Pope Francis has distinguished himself through his courageous stand for human rights and his condemnations of all genocide, both past and present. Most recently, in condemning the persecution of Christians and other minorities in Syria and Iraq, the Pope has spoken out against the darkest chapters of human history made possible "by general and collective indifference.” As the world struggles to cope with a flood of refugees not seen since the end of World War II, the Pope has emerged as perhaps the leading advocate for relief. The Pontiff has called on the international community to respond meaningfully to this unsurpassed humanitarian disaster. His compassion has also taken the concrete form of inviting a Syrian refugee family to reside in his residence at the Vatican. For all these reasons and many more, we thank you for your consideration of our nomination of Pope Francis for the Nobel Peace Prize. The receipt of such an award would be a profound recognition of the Pope's commitment to furthering the cause of peace around the world. Sincerely, ###
09.17.15	09.17.15 Reps. Adam Schiff, Rosa DeLauro, and Other Members Support New FDA Proposal to Require Daily Reference Value for Added Sugars on Nutritional Facts Labeling Effort to Better Inform Consumers Needed in Fight Against Childhood Obesity And Diabetes Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) joined with a number of congressional colleagues in writing a letter to Acting Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Dr. Stephen Ostroff in support of the supplemental proposed rule for the Nutrition Facts Label, which would require listing a daily reference value (DRV) for added sugars. In March 2014, the FDA issued a proposed rule which would require “added sugars” be listed on the Nutrition Facts labels, rather than just “sugars.” However, unlike fat, sodium, protein, and other nutritional categories on the label, there was no DRV required for the added sugars category. In July, after the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee report was released and recommended a daily limit for added sugars, the FDA issued a supplemental proposed rule for the Nutrition Facts label. This supplemental proposal would require a DRV for added sugars, which would be based on the recommendation that the daily intake of calories from added sugars not exceed 10% of total calories. Schiff stated: “By labeling added sugars to food labeling, American consumers and parents will be able to make informed decisions about the food they eat and feed their families, and help fight chronic disease including obesity, diabetes, liver disease, and heart disease, among other health issues.” “Specifying a Daily Value for added sugar will move us further forward in assisting people in making healthier choices,” DeLauro said. “Providing needed context for an acceptable intake of added sugars will make it clear to consumers that added sugars should be limited. This will, in turn, help us combat the alarming obesity and diabetes epidemics that our country faces.” Reps. Schiff and DeLauro were joined in the letter by Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), John Conyers (D-MI), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Judy Chu (D-CA) and Susan Davis (D-CA). The full letter is below: Dr. Stephen Ostroff, M.D. Acting Commissioner Food and Drug Administration 10903 New Hampshire Ave. Silver Spring, MD 20993 Re: Food Labeling: Nutrition and Supplement Facts Labels; Revision – Docket No. FDA-2012-N-1210 Dear Acting Commissioner Ostroff: We appreciate the opportunity to provide public comment in response to revised provisions of the proposed rule for the Nutrition Facts label. In particular, we would like to express our strong support for the proposal to include a daily reference value (DRV) for added sugars. It is a widely accepted fact among health professionals that higher consumption of added sugars contributes to tooth decay, weight gain and obesity, diabetes, liver disease, and heart disease, among other health issues. The World Health Organization, the American Heart Association and other highly-regarded members of the public health community recommend limiting added sugars to 10% or less of total caloric intake. However, various studies show that most U.S. adults consume between 19.5 and 22 teaspoons of added sugars a day – well over the recommended amount. This is due, in part, to the fact that many foods Americans consume contain added sugars, and often times, it is not apparent to the consumer. In fact, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists, almost three-quarters of packaged foods contain added sugar. It is therefore difficult for Americans whose diet consists of large quantities of added sugars to meets nutritional needs while staying within calorie limits. We are pleased that the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee has recently recommended a daily limit for added sugars, and that the FDA is now reflecting this recommendation in its Nutrition Facts label proposal. We strongly support requiring the labeling of both added sugars per serving and the corresponding daily reference value for added sugars. Providing such information will better enable Americans to make informed decisions about the foods they eat and feed their families. We commend the FDA on their proposal to include a daily reference value for added sugars and urge FDA to swiftly finalize the rule. Thank you for the consideration of our comments. Sincerely, ### A PDF of the letter can be found here.
09.11.15	09.11.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Votes to Support Iran Deal Schiff: Time to Bring the Debate To a Close And Focus on Strengthening Constraints on Iran Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) released the following statement after voting for the resolution of approval: “I voted today to support the Iran deal negotiated by the Administration and the representatives of the other P5+1 nations – a deal which will realistically prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Given the unthinkable consequences of Iran, the world’s foremost sponsor of terrorism, obtaining the bomb, this has been an overriding national security imperative of the U.S. for decades. The actions in the House and Senate this week have made clear that the deal will go forward and be implemented. I believe this is the right outcome, but our work is far from over and I hope that attention will now turn from this often divisive debate and towards collaboration on the many ways Congress and the Administration can work to strengthen the deal and mitigate its risks. “As an American and as a Jew who is deeply concerned about the security of Israel, this issue was deeply personal for me. I believe our vital interests will be advanced under the agreement as it would be extremely difficult for Iran to amass enough fissionable material to make a nuclear weapon without giving the United States ample notice and time to stop it. We will still need to guard against any Iranian effort to obtain nuclear material or technology from proliferators abroad — a reality even if Iran had given up all enrichment — but the agreement will likely give the world at least a decade and a half without the prospect of an Iranian nuclear weapon and without going to war to make that so. That is a major achievement. “With the deal now effectively passed, the Administration will begin to implement it. In Congress, we should focus on making it stronger. “First, we should make it clear that if Iran cheats, the repercussions will be severe. Second, we should continue to strengthen our intelligence capabilities to detect any form of Iranian noncompliance. Third, we should establish the expectation that while Iran will be permitted to have an enrichment capability for civilian use, it will never be permitted to produce highly enriched uranium, and if it attempts to do so, it will be stopped with force. Fourth, we must share with Israel all the technologies necessary to maintain its regional military superiority, and if necessary, to destroy Iran’s nuclear facilities no matter how deep the bunker. Finally, we must be prepared to work with Israel and our Gulf allies to make sure that every action Iran takes to use its newfound wealth for destructive activities in the region will prompt an equal and opposite reaction, and we will combat Iran’s malignant influence. “The Iranian people will one day throw off the shackles of their repressive regime, and I hope that this deal will empower those who wish to reform Iranian governance and behavior. The 15 years or more this agreement provides will give us the time to test that proposition. Then, as now, if Iran is determined to go nuclear, there is only one way to stop it, and that is by the use of force. But the American people and others around the world will recognize that we did everything possible to avoid war. “The Iran issue is a pivotal one, and it has understandably stirred great passions. But now, with the deal set to go into effect, let us focus on ways we can work together to strengthen the constraints on Iran and address the continuing challenges to the United States, Israel and our other allies.”
09.04.15	09.04.15 Rep. Schiff Distributes Tickets For Papal Visit to the Capitol Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Schiff announced that his office will distribute a select number of tickets for a live telecast on the West Front Lawn outside of the Capitol during the Pope’s speech to a Joint Session on Congress. His Holiness will address both chambers of Congress on September 24, 2015. Limited tickets for the broadcast will be provided to members of the 28th Congressional District, chosen by raffle, to those that fill out and submit this form. Due to the limited number of tickets our office will distribute, winners may request up to four tickets each. Tickets must be picked up in person and signed for in our Washington D.C. office, in 2411 Rayburn House Office Building, by 6:00pm on Wednesday, September 23rd. Pursuant to House rules tickets may not be redistributed or sold for any reason. Rep. Schiff’s office will be unable to mail tickets to constituents or make any other special arrangements. Travel and accommodations will be at the ticket holders expense. Please note that while a clear line-of-sight cannot be guaranteed for all attending the West Front broadcast, the space provides an opportunity for you to be part of the event. The deadline to enter is Friday, September 11th at 10AM Pacific Time. Those chosen by lottery will be contacted directly with further instructions by the end of the day. For questions regarding the lottery, please contact the DC office at 202-225-4176.
08.03.15	08.03.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Announces Support of Iran Deal Schiff: Congress Should Help Strengthen Iran Deal, Not Reject It Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “After several years of difficult negotiations with a dangerous and malevolent regime, the Administration and the representatives of the other P5+1 nations reached an agreement with Iran over its nuclear program. The deal realistically precludes Iran from developing an atomic bomb for fifteen or more years, and does so while reducing the chances of war. As one would expect in any negotiation with a bitter adversary, there are elements of the deal that turned out quite well – in this case, America’s unilateral ability to snap back the whole range of sanctions in the event of Iranian noncompliance, and the intrusive nature of inspections into Iran. And there are other elements of the deal that are concerning, even deeply concerning – lack of robust access to the sites of Iran’s past military work on nuclear weapons, and the permissible scope of Iran’s enrichment program after only fifteen years. In the absence of a credible alternative, Congress should accept the deal and work with the Administration to strengthen its impact, while joining forces with our allies to better contain Iran’s conventional capabilities and nefarious conduct in the region and beyond. “The primary objective of the United States in the negotiations was to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Given the unthinkable consequences of Iran, the world’s foremost sponsor of terrorism, obtaining the bomb, this has been an overriding national security imperative of the United States for decades. As an American and as a Jew who is deeply concerned about the security of Israel, it is also intensely personal. I believe our vital interests have been advanced under the agreement, since it would be extremely difficult for Iran to amass enough fissionable material to make a nuclear weapon without giving the United States ample notice and time to stop it. We will still need to guard against any Iranian effort to obtain nuclear material or technology from proliferators abroad -- a reality even if they had given up all enrichment -- but the agreement likely gives the world at least a decade and a half without the prospect of an Iranian nuclear weapon and without going to war to make that so. That is a major achievement. “The United States realized this objective by securing a number of important provisions in the agreement, including the power to snap back sanctions in whole or in part, and not subject to a veto in the United Nations. Over the past two decades, Iran has consistently and repeatedly cheated in its agreements with the IAEA. This cheating has taken many forms, including the construction of hidden enrichment facilities, some deep underground, as well as work to develop the technologies necessary to detonate a nuclear weapon. At the outset of the negotiations, Iran’s goal was to have the power to delay and obfuscate if caught, and to count on friendly nations (Russia) or nations deeply interested in its oil resources (China) to veto the re-imposition of sanctions. But Iran failed, and the snapback mechanism provides the best guarantor of Iranian compliance. “The United States and its allies also procured an extensive and intrusive inspections regime that lasts for twenty-five years. By applying to the whole chain of the enrichment process, from the ground to the centrifuge, it realistically precludes Iran from developing a hidden and parallel enrichment process. As a practical matter, given our intelligence capabilities and this inspection regime, the deal should prevent Iran from developing a bomb for the duration of the agreement. If Iran cheats, it is likely to do so in areas that do not involve nuclear material, such as work on nuclear weaponization and other research and development that are more easily hidden during the twenty-four days it is allowed to play “rope-a-dope” with inspectors. Here it will be important for Congress, the Administration and our allies to make clear that any cheating will be severely penalized and result in the re-imposition of some, if not all, of the original sanctions – Iran will not be allowed to merely cease the offending conduct. “With respect to the possible military dimensions of Iran’s nuclear program (PMDs), the United States does not appear to have obtained the more robust access to military sites that we sought, but this is mitigated by the fact that the IAEA and U.S. already have considerable intelligence about the type of work that Iran has done to construct, deliver and detonate an atomic bomb. No one expects Iran or its scientists to be the least bit forthcoming about Iran’s past weaponization work. To the degree that we need a baseline to estimate how long it would take Iran to dash to a bomb, however, our intelligence already provides a good basis for calculations even without Iran coming clean on its PMD. “The most troubling part of the agreement for me is therefore not those parts that have generated the most discussion or criticism from opponents – the sanctions, inspections or PMD – but the size, sophistication and international legitimacy of Iran’s enrichment capability allowed in only fifteen years. At the outset of negotiations, it was hoped that if it was necessary to grant Iran an enrichment capability at all, it would only be a token one, and that apart from a small research facility, fuel for its reactors might be stored or produced outside the country. Instead, while approximately 13,000 centrifuges will be removed from operation, the agreement allows Iran to operate over 5,000 centrifuges and, eventually, to bring on line a faster set of instruments that reduce the time necessary to create enough fissionable material for a bomb down to a matter of weeks. “It is important to understand that even after fifteen years – or fifty for that matter – as a signatory to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, Iran is never allowed to develop the bomb. And it is certainly true that as a result of the agreement, we will have inspectors watching the enrichment process that we wouldn’t have otherwise. But at the end of fifteen years, Iran will have few constraints on the speed of its enrichment, and at that point it is the work necessary to produce the mechanism for the bomb that becomes the real obstacle to a breakout – and that work is among the most difficult to detect. “While much of the focus has been on the tradeoff between sanctions relief and limits on Iran’s nuclear program, the real painful heart of the agreement lies elsewhere -- Iran is meaningfully prevented from developing atomic weapons for at least fifteen years, but it is left with a robust and internationally legitimized enrichment capability. I have searched for a better, credible alternative and concluded that there is none. “Some opponents of the deal have argued that in the event Congress rejects the agreement, Iran has so much to gain from it that it will continue to comply even in the face of sustained American sanctions. Given hard-liner Iranian opposition to the deal, the regime’s revolutionary ideology, and the opportunity this would provide the mullahs to continue playing victim, this hardly seems plausible. Other opponents attempt to make the case that if we reject the deal, Iran will too, but America can somehow rebuild international support for sanctions and force Iran to come back to the table ready to concede its enrichment program. “When it comes to predicting the future, we are all looking through the glass darkly, but it is only prudent to expect that if Congress rejects a deal agreed to by the Administration and much of the world, the sanctions regime will – if not collapse –almost certainly erode. Even if we could miraculously keep Europe on board with sanctions, it is hard to imagine Russia, China, India or other nations starved for oil or commerce, agreeing to cut off business with Iran. The use of American financial sanctions is a powerful and coercive force, but relies upon at least the tacit acceptance of our objectives, something that would be lacking if we reject a deal agreed to by the other major powers. A diminished or collapsed sanctions regime does not mean, as some have suggested, that Iran necessarily dashes madly for a bomb, but it will almost certainly move forward with its enrichment program unconstrained by inspections, limits on research and development of new centrifuges, metallurgy and other protections of the deal. In short, Iran will have many of the advantages of the deal in access to money and trade, with none of its disadvantages. “Instead of rejecting the deal, therefore, Congress should focus on making it stronger. • First, we should make it clear that if Iran cheats, the repercussions will be severe. • Second, we should continue to strengthen our intelligence capabilities to detect the mostly likely forms of Iranian noncompliance. • Third, we should establish the expectation that while Iran will be permitted to have an enrichment capability for civilian use, it will never be permitted to produce highly enriched uranium. Not now, not after fifteen years, not ever. If it does so, that will be construed as demonstrating a clear intent to develop the bomb and it will be stopped with force. • Fourth, if Iran – a nation which has threatened Israel’s existence – develops methods of shielding its nuclear facilities from aerial attack by the importation of missile defense systems or further burying its nuclear work, we will share with Israel all the technologies necessary to defeat those systems and destroy its facilities no matter how deep the bunker. • And fifth, we are prepared to work with Israel and our Gulf allies to make sure that every action Iran takes to use its newfound wealth for destructive activities in the region will prompt an equal and opposite reaction, and the nuclear deal will only reinforce our willingness to combat Iran’s conventional and malignant influence. “The Iranian people will one day throw off the shackles of their repressive regime, and I hope that this deal will empower those who wish to reform Iranian governance and behavior. The fifteen years or more this agreement provides will give us the time to test that proposition, without Iran developing the bomb and without the necessity of protracted military action. Then, as now, if Iran is determined to go nuclear, there is only one way to stop it and that is by the use of force. But then at least, the American people and others around the world will recognize that we did everything possible to avoid war.”
07.30.15	07.30.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on USGS Awarding $4 Million for Earthquake Early Warning System Funding Part of Money Secured by Schiff in Congress Washington, DC – The U.S. Geological Survey awarded approximately $4 million this week to four universities – California Institute of Technology, University of California, Berkeley, University of Washington and University of Oregon – to support transitioning the “ShakeAlert” earthquake early warning system toward a production stage. USGS also provided an additional $1 million to purchase new earthquake early warning sensor equipment. Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), who helped secure the funding in both FY 2015 and 2016 for a west coast earthquake early warning system, commented: “I’m delighted to see that the USGS has moved forward with implementation of the early earthquake warning system. It is critical that the West Coast implement an earthquake early warning system that will give us a heads up before the ‘big one’ hits, so we can save lives and protect infrastructure. We are constantly reminded of our vulnerability—with tremors, earthquakes and aftershocks rattling our homes and business—and even a few seconds of warning will allow people to seek cover, slow or stop trains, pause surgeries, and more. Congress has made clear the importance of the system and our continued commitment. But the federal government cannot, and will not, fund this system alone. It’s time for our West Coast state governments and local partners to do their part with matching funding for this invaluable system.” A limited system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon in conjunction with the United States Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. It will cost an estimated $38.2 million to build out a full system for the west coast, with annual operating and maintenance costs of $16.1 million. For more information on Schiff efforts to secure this funding in 2014, click here. For more information on Schiff efforts to secure this funding in 2015, click here. ###
07.29.15	07.29.15 Rep. Schiff and 19 California Members to FAA – Consider Deploying Drone Mitigation Technologies in Civilian Drones to Prevent Interference in Firefighting Activities Could Include Measures Like “Geo-Fencing” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and nineteen Members of the California Congressional Delegation sent a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta urging the agency to consider measures to prevent commercial and hobbyist drones from interfering in firefighting operations. Recently, as the “North Fire” threatened cars on the 15 Freeway, firefighting planes had to be rerouted because of five drones flying in the area. This is not the first instance, as it was reported that this was the fourth time in just the past few weeks that drones had interfered with efforts to fight a wildfire in Southern California. Schiff and the Members are recommending that as part of the finalization of the rule to regulate the operation of small commercial drones, the FAA should consider requiring technological measures that would prevent the operation of drones in a manner that interferes with first responders. In the letter, they write: “As commercial drones become more widespread, the U.S. Forest Service and state forestry services are likely to experience an increase in civilian operated drones interference with emergency first responders. We understand the FAA is in the process of finalizing rules to regulate the operation of small commercial drones, and we urge you to use this process to incorporate measures directed at preventing the operation of drones in a manner that interferes with first responders. We believe this review should include the possibility of requiring technological measures, such as “geo-fencing,” in commercially available drones that prevent them from being flown within a geographic area where they are likely to interfere with firefighting activities, as well as the study of other proven drone mitigation technologies. The FAA should also consider a campaign to ensure that civilian drone operators understand the dangers of operating drone in restricted airspace, and the potential harm that this irresponsible behavior could cause.” The letter was signed by Reps. Grace Napolitano (D-Norwalk), John Garamendi (D-Fairfield), Scott Peters (D-San Diego), Tony Cárdenas (D-San Fernando Valley), Jim Costa (D-Fresno), Doris Matsui (D-Sacramento), Ami Bera (D-Elk Grove), Jared Huffman (D-San Rafael), Sam Farr (D-Carmel), Eric Swalwell (D-Dublin), Mike Thompson (D-St. Helena), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Los Angeles), Julia Brownley (D-Westlake Village), Janice Hahn (D-Long Beach), Brad Sherman (D-Sherman Oaks), Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park), Linda Sánchez (D-Whittier), Barbara Lee (D-Oakland), and Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose). The full letter is below: Dear Administrator Huerta: We write to express our strong concerns regarding the increased reports of civilian drones interfering with wildfire suppression activities. We urge the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to consider all the tools at its disposal to prohibit this dangerous and irresponsible use of civilian drones, which have already endangered the lives of civilians and firefighters. As you may be aware, the U.S. Forest Service, as well as the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, have had to delay or abort a number of wildfire suppression flights due to commercial drones. This happened most recently during “North Fire” near Cajon Pass when firefighting operations had to be halted shortly before the wildfire jumped Interstate 10 because of a recreational drone, causing motorists to abandon their cars and flee for their lives. First responders must have the ability to address wildfire activities quickly and be uninhibited by unforeseen circumstances, such as a civilian flying their commercial drone in the vicinity. Not only do these drones put first responder pilots’ lives at risk, they also prevent these firefighters from helping to contain wildfires and put the lives of ordinary citizens at risk. For example, a June 25th Los Angeles Times article reported that a DC-10 Air Tanker and two smaller planes were forced to divert and drop their fire retardant cargo elsewhere due to a commercial drone flying in the area. Not only did this cost taxpayers between $10,000 and $15,000, it shut down further missions and allowed the wildfire to spread. In the early stages of a wildfire, time is of the essence and even an hour of delay can be the difference between containment or an uncontrollable burn that destroys thousands of acres and threatens lives and property. As commercial drones become more widespread, the U.S. Forest Service and state forestry services are likely to experience an increase in civilian operated drones interference with emergency first responders. We understand the FAA is in the process of finalizing rules to regulate the operation of small commercial drones, and we urge you to use this process to incorporate measures directed at preventing the operation of drones in a manner that interferes with first responders. We believe this review should include the possibility of requiring technological measures, such as “geo-fencing,” in commercially available drones that prevent them from being flown within a geographic area where they are likely to interfere with firefighting activities, as well as the study of other proven drone mitigation technologies. The FAA should also consider a campaign to ensure that civilian drone operators understand the dangers of operating drone in restricted airspace, and the potential harm that this irresponsible behavior could cause. With California in the middle of a multi-year drought, we can expect to see more wildfires that threaten the lives and homes of many families. We urge the FAA to ensure that our first responders battling these fires are not inhibited in any way from carrying out their duties. Thank you, and we look forward to working with you on this critical issue. Sincerely, ###
07.23.15	07.23.15 Rep. Schiff to FAA – Consider Requiring “Geo-Fencing” in Civilian Drones to Prevent Interference in Firefighting Activities Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, began circulating a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta among his California colleagues urging the agency to consider measures to prevent commercial and hobbyist drones from interfering in firefighting operations. Recently, as the “North Fire” threatened cars on the 10 Freeway, firefighting planes had to be rerouted because of five drones flying in the area. This is not the first instance, as it was reported that this was the fourth time in just the past few weeks that drones had interfered with efforts to fight a wildfire in Southern California. Schiff is recommending that as part of the finalization of regulations to regulate the operation of small commercial drones, the FAA should consider requiring technological measures that would prevent the operation of drones in a manner that interferes with first responders. In the letter, Schiff writes: “As commercial drones become more widespread, the U.S. Forest Service and state forestry services are likely to experience an increase in civilian operated drones interference with emergency first responders. We understand the FAA is in the process of finalizing rules to regulate the operation of small commercial drones, and we urge you to use this process to incorporate measures directed at preventing the operation of drones in a manner that interferes with first responders. Among the steps that we believe should be considered is the possibility of requiring technological measures, such as “geo-fencing,” in commercially available drones that prevent them from being flown within a geographic area where they are likely to interfere with firefighting activities. The FAA should also consider a campaign to ensure that civilian drone operators understand the dangers of operating drone in restricted airspace, and the potential harm that this irresponsible behavior could cause.” The full letter, which is circulating now to other Members of Congress, is below: Dear Administrator Huerta: We write to express our strong concerns regarding the increased reports of civilian drones interfering with wildfire suppression activities. We urge the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to consider all the tools at its disposal to prohibit this dangerous and irresponsible use of civilian drones, which have already endangered the lives of civilians and firefighters. As you may be aware, the U.S. Forest Service, as well as the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, have had to delay or abort a number of wildfire suppression flights due to commercial drones. This happened most recently during “North Fire” near Cajon Pass when firefighting operations had to be halted shortly before the wildfire jumped Interstate 10 because of a recreational drone, causing motorists to abandon their cars and flee for their lives. First responders must have the ability to address wildfire activities quickly and be uninhibited by unforeseen circumstances, such as a civilian flying their commercial drone in the vicinity. Not only do these drones put first responder pilots’ lives at risk, they also prevent these firefighters from helping to contain wildfires and put the lives of ordinary citizens at risk. For example, a June 25th Los Angeles Times article reported that a DC-10 Air Tanker and two smaller planes were forced to divert and drop their fire retardant cargo elsewhere due to a commercial drone flying in the area. Not only did this cost taxpayers between $10,000 and $15,000, it shut down further missions and allowed the wildfire to spread. In the early stages of a wildfire, time is of the essence and even an hour of delay can be the difference between containment or an uncontrollable burn that destroys thousands of acres and threatens lives and property. As commercial drones become more widespread, the U.S. Forest Service and state forestry services are likely to experience an increase in civilian operated drones interference with emergency first responders. We understand the FAA is in the process of finalizing rules to regulate the operation of small commercial drones, and we urge you to use this process to incorporate measures directed at preventing the operation of drones in a manner that interferes with first responders. Among the steps that we believe should be considered is the possibility of requiring technological measures, such as “geo-fencing,” in commercially available drones that prevent them from being flown within a geographic area where they are likely to interfere with firefighting activities. The FAA should also consider a campaign to ensure that civilian drone operators understand the dangers of operating drone in restricted airspace, and the potential harm that this irresponsible behavior could cause. With California in the middle of a multi-year drought, we can expect to see more wildfires that threaten the lives and homes of many families. We urge the FAA to ensure that our first responders battling these fires are not inhibited in any way from carrying out their duties. Thank you, and we look forward to working with you on this critical issue. Sincerely, ###
07.14.15	07.14.15 Reps. Schiff and Ros-Lehtinen Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Reform Residential Treatment and Youth Boot Camp Programs Legislation Supported by Large Network of Outside Groups and Survivors of Abuse Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) introduced bipartisan legislation to reform residential treatment and youth “boot camp” programs nationwide. Residential treatment programs have existed for several decades as a last resort treatment option for children with mental health issues. Families turn to these programs when in need of more assistance than traditional inpatient mental health services or intermediate therapy programs are able to offer. In fact, many residential treatment programs have successfully helped kids with severe behavioral problems by helping to rehabilitate them from a traumatic experience or a drug and alcohol addiction. Other programs, however, advertise that they can help “troubled teens,” but in fact use the most atrocious methods, which can include physical and emotional abuse and “behavior modification” of LGBT youth – or gay conversion therapy – a widely discredited method. A 2008 GAO report documented widespread reports of abuse and death in a variety of such programs which included the excessive use of physical restraints, severe methods of intimidation, starvation, neglectful medical practices, physical abuse, and much more. LGBT youth are particularly at risk for abusive residential treatment programs which may advertise their services to parents as “curing” them of their sexual orientation and gender identity. The same report documented that 34 states had reported over 1,500 staff members involved in incidents of child abuse in 2005. And in 2006, 28 states reported at least one fatality in a youth residential treatment program. Yet these programs continue to operate with little or no accountability because of a loose patchwork of state licensing and monitoring requirements and little federal oversight, despite the fact that some programs receive federal funding. Federal legislation is needed because states alone cannot prevent these abusive “boot camps” from shutting down in one state and re-opening in another under a different name, as is common practice for some of these camps. "We cannot ignore reports that young people have died and thousands have suffered abuse at the hands of those who run and work at residential treatment programs under the guise of providing critical therapy and rehabilitation services,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “That’s why we are introducing legislation to hold all residential treatment programs accountable. The measure will also increase the transparency of these programs so that parents can make informed and safer choices for their children. Families that turn to these treatment programs for help, often as a last resort, must know that their kids are safe and in the care of professionals.” "While many residential treatment and youth 'boot' camp programs help young people who are at risk, I am increasingly concerned about reports of malfeasance in some camps,” said Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. “Some practices, such as starvation, excessive physical restraints, and neglectful medical treatment, are intolerable in any setting. Additionally, although sexual orientation and gender identity are immutable characteristics, other programs seek to behaviorally modify LGBT youth. No one should undergo this physical or emotional abuse and Adam and I are proud to help take the first step in solving this important problem." “Entrusting the safety and well-being of your child to someone else is one of the toughest decisions a parent can make. So I can only imagine the horrible grief of the thousands of parents whose misplaced trust in programs for ‘troubled’ teens has resulted in the abuse and even death of their kids,” said actress Sally Field, Honorary Campaign Chair of the Protect Our Youth from Abuse Campaign. “Residential camps, schools and wilderness programs should not be allowed to masquerade as legitimate treatment programs while they have unlicensed staff administering barbaric treatments—like food deprivation, beatings, and electric shock—to children. That’s why we must pass common sense, bi-partisan legislation to regulate this multi-million dollar industry and protect all kids.” The legislation that Schiff and Ros-Lehtinen are introducing is based on a bill championed by Rep. George Miller (D-CA) in Congress before his retirement – the Stop Child Abuse in Residential Programs for Teens Act, which passed in the House twice but was not signed into law. Their bipartisan legislation updated and improved upon Miller’s legislation, and would: Hold all youth residential treatment programs accountable to a set of minimum federal standards including prohibiting all residential treatment programs that purport to provide youth with mental health and behavioral treatment from any form of child abuse and depriving children of water, food, or medical care; requiring that all children have reasonable access to their families and a hotline to report instances of abuse; and requiring all staff members to be properly trained to identify instances of child abuse. Establish civil penalties for any violation of these standards and ensures private right of action so that victims and their families can seek civil damages as well. Increase transparency of the “troubled teen” industry by requiring all residential treatment programs to publicly disclose any past record of child abuse and state licensing status. Prohibits all residential treatment facilities from discriminating against youth with disabilities and LGBT youth, and requires all programs to employ safe and evidence-based treatment that protects children against harmful or fraudulent practices. Require states to work with Health and Human Services (HHS) to report and investigate instances of child abuse at residential treatment programs, and further requires them to establish standards that are at least as strict as federal standards. Also requires states to develop policies that ensure every program in their state is properly licensed and in compliance with license requirements. During the press conference, several survivors of treatment abuse programs spoke in support of the legislation, as did several outside groups. "In my time at the treatment facility, I was constantly being degraded and humiliated for numerous reasons -- the main reason that stuck out to me was because of my sexuality," said Stephanie Scheider, a survivor of the abuse at New Beginnings, a treatment facility for LGBT teens. “I was sure not to be open about my sexuality while I was there, but the staff assumed they knew – they told me I was going to hell and that I was going to die because I was a lesbian. Being sent New Beginnings has made a very large negative impact on my life and teenagers should not have to go through the things I went through. I thank the political and community leaders who are introducing this bill and urge Congress to pass it and the President to sign it -- we cannot wait any longer." “This legislation is needed because families who turn to residential programs for help must know that their children are safe and in the care of professionals,” said President of the Survivors of Institutional Abuse Organization Jodi Hobbs. “This type of abuse has gone largely unchecked in the United States for decades. How many children must suffer and die? The time is now, to protect our children from Institutional Child abuse. We have an opportunity here to create change with Federal Legislation Stop Child Abuse in Residential Treatment Programs for Teens Act of 2015.” “It’s long past time for Congress to pass sensible legislation to regulate this rogue, multi-million dollar industry that¹s profiting from the abuse of young people,” said Los Angeles LGBT Center CEO Lorri L. Jean. “If you¹re on a plane that¹s stuck on the tarmac for more than two hours, federal regulations require the airline to give you food and water. But if you¹re a kid sent to a residential treatment program, there¹s no regulation that protects you from being deprived of food and water for weeks. “The provisions in this proposal touch on so many of the issues that arise in the lives of children like my son Tim who are struggling with the earlier signs of serious mental illnesses and have been treated in residential treatment programs,” said Paul Gionfriddo, President and CEO of Mental Health America. “What I know from experience is that they need stability, an effective treatment program, continued access to their families, and freedom from abuse or neglect; this proposal will help give these things to them.” The legislation is supported by sixty outside groups, campaigns and survivor networks, including: ACCSES, American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy, American Orthopsychiatric Association, American Psychological Association, Asian & Pacific Islander Wellness Center, Association for Ambulatory Behavioral Healthcare, Brain Injury Association of America, CA Coalition for Youth, Campus Pride, Center on Halsted (IL), CenterLink: The Community of LGBT Centers, Coalition for Juvenile Justice, Colors LGBTQ Youth Counseling Center (CA), Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates, Covenant House International, Delta Foundation (PA), Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance, Divine Truth Unity Fellowship Church (CA), Equality CA, Equality Federation, First Focus Campaign for Children, Human Rights Campaign, Kalamazoo Gay Lesbian Resource Center (MI), Las Vegas LGBT Community Center, League of United Latin American Citizens, LGBT Center OC, Log Cabin Republicans, Los Angeles Gay and Lesbian Center, Marriage Equality USA, Mental Health America, Metro Wellness and Community Centers (FL), Montrose Center (TX), National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities, National Association of Social Workers, National Association of State Directors of Special Education, National Center for Housing and Child Welfare, National Center for Transgender Equality, National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, National Disability Rights Network, National PTA, National Youth Rights Association, North Star LGBT Community Center (NC), Phoenix Pride LGBT Center (AZ), Rainbow Pride Youth Alliance (CA), Resource Center (TX), Restoring Dignity (International), Rise Up and Shout!, Ruth Ellis Center (MI), Safe Teen Schools, Stonewall Democratic Club, Sun Serve (FL), Survivors of Institutional Abuse, The Center Palm Springs, The LGBTQ Center Long Beach, Transgender Law Center, Trevor Project, Triangle Community Center (CT), Unity Fellowship Social Justice Ministries, and WWASP Survivors. The bill text can be found here.
07.14.15	07.14.15 Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on Nuclear Agreement with Iran Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: "Throughout the long standoff with Iran over its nuclear program, I have expressed my preference for a diplomatic solution that would prevent Tehran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. To accomplish this, I have supported a series of ever tightening American sanctions and efforts to rally the international community to isolate Iran, raising the costs of Iran's enrichment program and helping to dry up a portion of the funding Iran has used to carry out its nefarious conduct in the region and beyond. "In the coming days I will be examining the terms of the agreement hammered out by Secretary Of State John Kerry and his team, with particular attention to the verification regime that is central to ensuring that Iran cannot cheat. Whether I can support the agreement will hinge on our ability to verify that Iran is complying, and whether we have timely access to any site of Iran's potential nuclear development activities, including venues controlled by the Iranian military. It will also be necessary for the United States and our partners to get an accurate accounting of Tehran's nuclear program from its inception. Additionally, I will be looking at the sequencing of Iranian actions and any loosening of sanctions and the mechanism for re-imposing them -- the so-called 'snap back' provisions -- should Tehran fail to meet its commitments. "The nuclear program has always been the greatest threat from Iran, but not the only one, and I also remain deeply concerned about Tehran's actions in the region -- from its efforts to dominate Iraq and Lebanon, to prop up the Assad regime in Syria, to back the Houthi rebels in Yemen, to its unrelenting hostility to Israel and its support of terror around the world. I will also be examining any relaxation of UN sanctions on Iran's acquisition of weapons or missile technology. "Given Iran's long record of duplicity and the consequence of Iran's getting a bomb or having a greater economic power to project its destructive influence, we cannot be too careful, nor can we afford to take Tehran at its word. "As the terms and consequences of this agreement become clear during the period of Congressional review, I would urge my colleagues to give the measure the serious thought it deserves. If the agreement is flawed it should be rejected; at the same time, we must not compare the proposal to an ideal, but rather to any credible alternative. Will rejection of the deal lead to additional sanctions and an Iran willing to concede more, or to renewed enrichment and a path to war? These are the stakes and our decision should be made with sober thought and a minimum of partisan demagoguery." ###
06.24.15	06.24.15 Rep. Schiff Reintroduces Constitutional Amendment Permitting Regulation of Campaign Spending Amendment Would Overturn Citizen's United Decision and Allow Public Financing of Campaigns Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) today reintroduced a constitutional amendment to overturn the Supreme Court's ill-considered opinion in Citizens United, and other Supreme Court precedent, which have made it impossible to regulate the billions in campaign spending unleashed over the last two decades. The amendment also overturns the Supreme Court decision Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, which struck down an Arizona law that allowed public financing of a candidate if their opponent exceeded certain spending limits. “With the advent of vast and anonymous campaign spending this past election cycle, it’s clear that we need real campaign finance reform now more than ever,” said Rep. Schiff. “As a result of the Supreme Court's artificial distinction between contributions to a candidate and direct expenditures that have the same effect, Super PACs and secret donors are the norm rather than the exception. My amendment is simple – it would allow Congress to set reasonable limits, and allow states to set up public financing for candidates, if they choose to do so. “I have always been loath to amend the constitution, but the tragic line of decisions by the Supreme Court has severely threatened the very health of our democracy. Something must be done, and it begins with overturning Citizens United.” Schiff's legislation was drafted in consultation with Harvard Law Professor Laurence H. Tribe, one of the nation's preeminent constitutional scholars. He was joined in introducing the bill today by Representatives Matt Cartwright, Steve Cohen, Mark DeSaulnier, John Garamendi, Jim Himes, William Keating, Barbara Lee, Stephen Lynch, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Charles Rangel, Niki Tsongas, Chris Van Hollen, and Peter Welch. The amendment provides simply: “Nothing in this Constitution shall be construed to forbid Congress or the States from imposing reasonable content-neutral limitations on private campaign contributions or independent election expenditures, or from enacting systems of public campaign financing, including those designed to restrict the influence of private wealth by offsetting campaign spending or independent expenditures with increased public funding." Schiff is no stranger to campaign finance reform. Elected in 2000, after the most expensive race for the House in history at the time, he became a cosponsor of the bipartisan McCain-Feingold bipartisan campaign finance reform law on his first day in Congress. Citizens United helped overturn critical parts of that and other campaign finance laws. Laurence H. Tribe is the Carl M. Loeb University Professor and Professor of Constitutional Law at Harvard Law School. Rep. Schiff served as one of his research assistants while a student at the law school in the mid-1980s. ###
06.17.15	06.17.15 Rep. Schiff Secures Additional $5 million for a Second Year in a Row To Continue Building Out Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that the Appropriations Committee has once again included $5 million in funding in the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for a west coast earthquake early warning system. Last year, for the first time, Congress appropriated $5 million specifically for the system. This continued funding during a time of severe budget constraints demonstrates the importance of the system and Congress’s commitment to seeing the system fully built out. Earlier this year, Schiff led a group of 35 Members of Congress – primarily from California, Washington, and Oregon – to request that the committee fund an earthquake early warning system for theWest Coast. A limited system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley, and the University of Washington, in conjunction with the United States Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. It will cost an estimated $38.2 million to build out a full system for the west coast, with annual operating and maintenance costs of $16.1 million. “I am pleased that the House Appropriations Committee has once again provided vital early funding for the earthquake early warning system. It is absolutely critical that the West Coast implement an earthquake early warning system that will give us a heads up before the ‘big one’ hits, so we can save lives and protect infrastructure,” said Schiff. “We are constantly reminded of our vulnerability—with tremors, earthquakes and aftershocks rattling our homes and business—and even a few seconds of warning will allow people to seek cover, slow or stop trains, pause surgeries, and more. Congress has made clear the importance of the system and our continued commitment. It’s time for our West Coast state government and local partners – now more than ever – to do their part with funding for this invaluable system.” In March, Rep. Schiff and 35 Members of the House sent a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging them to fully fund an earthquake early warning system. Schiff’s letter requested additional funding for the Earthquake Hazards Program in USGS to continue the process of building out the earthquake early warning system so that we can be ready for the next big quake. In the letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, the Members wrote: Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: As you craft the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you provide the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Earthquake Hazards program with $70.552 million, of which $16.1 million is to be provided to transition the earthquake early warning demonstration project into an operational capability on the West Coast. This is a $12.6 million increase over the FY2016 requested level in the President’s budget. The USGS, in collaboration with Caltech, UC Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon has developed an Earthquake Early Warning system that detects waves radiating from the epicenter of a quake and would provide people in California, Oregon and Washington with seconds to even a minute or more of warning. With advanced notice, people can take cover, automated systems can be triggered to slow down trains and manage the power grid, doctors can pause surgeries, and more. The technology has been tested and proven to work effectively. An earthquake early warning system along the West Coast would cost $16.1 million per year to construct, operate and maintain. FEMA has estimated that earthquakes cost the United States, averaged over the long term, more than $5 billion a year. This common-sense investment will save lives, protect businesses, and could make a real difference in more rapid recovery for local communities, the federal government and the economy as a whole. While we cannot predict when and where the next major earthquake will hit, we must do all we can to prepare ourselves so that we can mitigate the injuries, destruction, and chaos as much as possible. We are grateful for your support last year and we appreciate your consideration of our request this year. Sincerely,
06.12.15	06.12.15 Rep. Schiff and Members of Los Angeles Delegation Urge Park Service to Embrace Broadest Alternative in Final Rim of the Valley Report Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) along with six members of the Los Angeles Congressional Delegation, sent a letter to the National Park Service (NPS) regarding its recently released draft report on the Rim of the Valley Special Resources Study. The study examined the possibility of expanding the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) to include the Rim of the Valley Corridor. The letter commends NPS’s proposed enlargement of the existing SMMNRA to include areas in Alternative C of the draft report, which mainly focused on the connection between urban communities and open space. However, the letter urges NPS to expand the boundary even further, by adopting Alternative D which would include additional land and wildlife corridors in the expansion. The letter was sent by Reps. Schiff, Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park), Tony Cardenas (D-San Fernando), Ted Lieu (D-Los Angeles), Brad Sherman (D-Sherman Oaks), Xavier Becerra (D-Los Angeles), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Los Angeles). "Since the public comment period has been open, the vast majority of my constituents have come out in support of the broadest possible preservation of these natural resources," said Schiff. "That's why we feel that Alternative C does not go far enough. My Los Angeles congressional delegation colleagues and I have joined together to support Alternative D — a more expansive option that will provide for more connections between urban populations and nature and better wildlife habitat protection. If we don't act now to preserve these wildlife corridors, they will be gone for good and, along with them, a lot of what we love about Los Angeles." The full letter can be read below: Ms. Anne Dove National Park Service Rim of the Valley Corridor Study 570 W. Avenue 26, #175 Los Angeles, CA 90065 Dear Ms. Dove: We write to provide our view of the National Park Service’s draft report of the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resources Study. We are pleased that the Study’s draft report supports such a significant expansion of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA), but we believe that the Park Service should take on a more expansive vision for the Rim of the Valley area, and feel that a larger addition would be more beneficial for the community and region as a whole. As the draft report has conveyed so effectively, the Rim of the Valley Corridor contains nationally significant resources which should be added to the SMMNRA. The area has a rich geologic history and high levels of biodiversity, and is an important resource for hiking, education, and recreation for an urban population that is surrounded by the concrete jungle of freeways and parking lots. In 2013, after the National Park Service (NPS) released its preliminary findings and alternatives, many members of the Los Angeles delegation joined in urging NPS to creative a hybrid alternative, which would focus on both connecting urban communities to open space (Alternative C) and connecting natural habitats (Alternative D). This hybrid alternative would provide comprehensive preservation of the region’s mountain ranges and trail systems and maintain habitat connectivity, thereby ensuring that the objectives of the two alternatives are realized. In the Study’s draft report, released in April 2015, an updated and slightly modified Alternative C was designated NPS’s preferred alternative. If implemented, this boundary expansion would be a significant improvement over the status quo. However, we remain steadfast in our belief that a boundary expansion of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area should also include areas which have significant implications for wildlife and habitats. Therefore, we strongly support the draft report’s revised Alternative D—a more expansion option, which includes all of the land within Alternative C, as well as additional land in the western portion of the study area, land north of the Angeles National Forest, and two wildlife corridors which would connect the study area to the Los Padres National Forest and the northern portion of the Angeles National Forest. These wildlife corridors are of particular importance to the constituents who have contacted us, as they are crucial for linking habitats. Alternative D is the alternative in the draft report that best reflects our support for a hybrid alternative that would improve both urban and habitat connectivity. The population in Los Angeles will continue to grow, and our nation’s precious natural resources and open space are increasingly threatened by human activities and expansion. We must act now to create a framework to preserve as much of the Rim of the Valley Corridor as possible, so Angelenos will reap the benefits of nature for generations to come. Once again, we are very pleased that NPS is supportive of expanding federal protection to the Rim of the Valley Study Area and are encouraged that NPS is so receptive to incorporating the wishes of the community. Sincerely,
06.11.15	06.11.15 House Narrowly Defeats Rep. Schiff Amendment Forcing Vote on ISIS War Authorization Washington, DC -- Today, the House of Representatives narrowly rejected an amendment to the annual Defense Appropriations bill by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) by a vote of 196-231, despite bipartisan support. Schiff's amendment would have required Congress to debate and vote on a new authorization for use of military force (AUMF) by March 31st, 2016. The amendment would accomplish this by prohibiting funds in the defense appropriations bill from being used for Operation Inherent Resolve – which is currently targeting ISIS through airstrikes in Iraq and Syria -- unless Congress passes a new AUMF that authorizes the ongoing military action. "Ten months into an undeclared war against ISIS, Congress yet again dodged its responsibility to authorize the use of force," said Schiff. "While our pilots and special forces risk it all, Congress refuses to do its job. Congressional abdication of our responsibility to declare war, or to deny authorization for war, sets a terrible precedent and shifts war-making powers substantially and inexorably towards the Executive. While this is another setback for a Congress long derelict in its duty, I will keep pushing for a debate and vote on a new AUMF." The full debate on the Schiff amendment can be found here.Schiff's floor speech in support of his amendment is below: "Ten months ago we entered into the war against ISIS. During the course of that war, we have put our pilots and other service members at considerable risk and we have suffered casualties. We've expended hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars. And as yet there is no end in sight to this conflict. "In the beginning of the conflict, the administration took the position that it didn't need an authorization from Congress, although it desired one. The administration relied on an authority that was passed in 2001 and 2002. An authority passed in the hours after 9/11 that authorized the use of force against those responsible for the attack, al Qaeda. "It also relied on the authorization passed in 2002 which authorized the use of force against Iraq. In fact, neither of those authorities is on point. The use of force that we are employing now against ISIS is being used against an organization that didn't exist on 9/11, and in fact is often at war with the organization that was responsible for 9/11, that is al Qaeda. "Nonetheless, the administration has asserted that it can rely on these authorities and it asked congress to pass a new authorization, because it felt that was the preferential course. At the time and before the midterm elections, the leadership in the House of Representatives took the position that a lame duck Congress should not be voting on a new war and the vote must await until after the elections. "And so the Congress abdicated its constitutional responsibility to have a debate and a war declaration. And instead we awaited the elections. And the elections came and the elections went. "And those of us who raised the cry that it was time for congress to do its job were met with a new response. We can't vote on an authorization now because the administration hadn't sent us one. Even though there's nothing in the constitution that provides that Congress shall declare war only when asked by an executive. "But nonetheless we sat once again derelict until the administration sent us a draft authorization. Then there was a new explanation for inaction. We couldn't act on this new authorization because we didn't like the terms of it. "This was irrespective of the fact that the congress has all the power it needs to change that draft or craft in a completely new authorization, and still we did nothing. "And then the explanation was given, we couldn't act on a war authorization because we had to vote on the negotiations with Iran, even though those negotiations were not yet complete. And so we had a vote on the negotiations with Iran. "And now we are here once again with a series of shifting rationales for why we don't have a debate on this war ongoing now for 10 months. "This must come to an end. The amendment that I've offered this evening would provide that no funds shall be expended for the war against ISIS after March 31st of next year unless Congress passes an authorization. "If this is worth fighting ISIS, and I believe it is, it's worth having Congress do its job. If we're going to ask our service members risk their lives, we ought to have the courage ourselves to take a vote on this war. And with that, I reserve the balance of my time." ###
06.02.15	06.02.15 Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on Senate Passage of USA Freedom Act Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and co-sponsor of the USA Freedom Act, released the following statement: “Senate passage of the USA Freedom Act is a vital step forward in reforming our intelligence programs to ensure that we maximize both security and privacy. The bill's provisions will end bulk collection and add important checks and balances in the FISA Court by introducing an independent advocate and requiring declassification review of important decisions. “I commend those members of the Senate who voted against amendments which would have weakened these reforms and further jeopardized progress on the bill. “Though passage of USA Freedom in the Senate was overdue and that chamber's dysfunction caused important capabilities to lapse, we will soon send the President a sound compromise that enjoys the support of stakeholders across the spectrum. The USA Freedom Act is evidence that we need not sacrifice our liberty for security, and that we can, indeed must, have both."
06.01.15	06.01.15 Rep. Schiff Names 2019 Appointees to Military Service Academies Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) met with students appointed to the Service Academy class of 2019. Four students from the 28th Congressional District will leave shortly to join the Cadets and Midshipmen at our nation’s prestigious Service Academies. Appointments include: Lucien Frederic Brule, a Glendale resident who attended Campbell Hall Episcopal High School. Lucien received an appointment to both the Air Force Academy and Military Academy (West Point). He has chosen to attend West Point. John Joseph Gordon Howe, a Burbank resident who attended John Burroughs High School. John will be attending the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs. Janel C. Valerio, a Los Angeles resident who attended Immaculate Heart High School. Janel will also be attending the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs. Minor Ray Wetzel, a La Cañada Flintridge resident who attended La Cañada High School. Minor will be attending the Naval Academy in Annapolis. “These students exemplify academic excellence and they are to be commended for their commitment to serving our country. I am proud of their achievements thus far and I am confident they will make successful future leaders of our country. I wish them well in their upcoming service and encourage them all to stay in touch.” Students interested in applying for admission to a Service Academy for the Class of 2020 should contact Congressman Schiff’s District Office at (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555. Information is also available on Schiff’s website: https://schiff.house.gov.
05.20.15	05.20.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Praises Appropriations Committee for Fully Funding Planetary Science Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the Commerce, Justice and Science FY 2016 Appropriations bill was marked up in the full committee, which now heads to the House Floor in the coming months: “Some rare good news on federal funding for an important priority today, when the House Appropriations Committee agreed to fund Planetary Science and NASA at levels far above what the President requested. By providing full funding – and in many cases, strong increases – for NASA’s Planetary Science missions, Congress has stated unequivocally to the White House that the scientists got it right in the decadal survey, and that we should be funding missions to Mars and Europa. “I’m also hopeful that as the appropriations process proceeds, we will be able to get NASA’s Earth Science budget up to where it should be, as well. We must also ensure that spacecraft still producing good science are not shut down prematurely, and that other programs have the long-term funding necessary to plan for future missions. I want to thank Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Fattah for working with the community and me, and I look forward to continuing to support these critical missions well into the future.” Background: In this year’s Commerce, Justice and Science FY 2016 Appropriations bill, the Appropriations Committee significantly increased NASA’s overall funding numbers, in addition to upping funding for their Planetary Science programs. Specifically, NASA is funded at $18.5 billion ($519 million above FY15 levels), with Planetary Science receiving $1.557 billion ($120 million above FY15). This is good news for the program, which will be provided $448 million for exploration of Mars – with $250 million going towards the Mars 2020 mission, $13.7 million for continued operations of the Opportunity Rover, and $19 million for the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter. Additionally, the bill provides $140 million for a mission to Jupiter’s moon of Europa, with bill language directing NASA to conduct a mission with “an orbiter and studies of both a surface element as well as sample analysis of plumes emanating from the surface.” It also directs NASA to use the SLS as a launch vehicle for Europa and the mission should launch no later than 2022 and include in the FY17 budget “a five year funding profile necessary to achieve those goals.” Last year, Congress passed an Appropriations bill that provided NASA with $18.01 billion, $549 million above the President’s request for this year and $364 million above last year. Planetary science was funded at a total of $1.437 billion, an increase of $157 million or 12%, which supported the continued funding of the Opportunity rover and the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, as well as the Mars 2020 mission. It also specifically delineated $118 million for a flagship mission to Europa in the future, an increase of $102 million or 686% over the previous year’s funding level – through this appropriation, Congress specifically directed NASA to begin planning a mission to Jupiter’s moon in the future. ###
05.14.15	05.14.15 Rep. Schiff Calls for Immediate Implementation of Positive Train Control Across the Country Washington, DC – Today, in the wake of the tragic Amtrak crash in Philadelphia that so far has cost the lives of eight people, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) called for urgent implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC), a predictive collision-avoidance technology which can override an operator to prevent train collisions and save lives. The technology consists of GPS signals and wayside devices that can detect unapproved train movement or trains going too fast with the ability to stop the train remotely. “Even after the Chatsworth crash that killed twenty-five, some in the railroad industry and in Congress have been trying to delay implementation of Positive Train Control across the country, but the tragic Amtrak accident this week reminds us again of the terrible price we pay for delay,” said Rep. Schiff. “While the Amtrak crash is under investigation, a number of experts are saying that PTC could have prevented this accident and many others that have occurred throughout the country. “I was disappointed to see the House Appropriations Committee yesterday reject an amendment by my colleagues to provide funding for PTC in the transportation funding bill, because this shouldn’t be a partisan issue – we all need to continue working to improve funding for our critical infrastructure, and make sure that PTC is employed nationwide.” Background: In 2008, Rep. Schiff authored legislation – the Rail Collision Prevention Act, which was ultimately included in the Rail Safety Improvement Act – to require all major U.S. railroads to install “positive train control” systems designed to help avoid collisions. These provisions came in response to the 2008 Metrolink-Union Pacific crash in Chatsworth, which killed 25 and injured 135, and a 2005 crash in Glendale where a Metrolink train collided with an automobile that was abandoned on the tracks. That collision killed 11 people and was the deadliest Metrolink crash in its history, until the tragic collision in Chatsworth. Under the Rail Safety Improvement Act, which Schiff helped pass, railroads are required to install the life-saving technology by the end of 2015. However, the Senate Commerce Committee recently approved a bill that would give railroads a five- to-seven year extension. Rail safety experts say a positive train control system could have prevented the Chatsworth and Union Pacific crashes. Schiff’s 2008 legislation which was signed into law required that: Require both commuter and passenger railroads and freight train that share a track to implement positive train control systems; Requires installation of these systems on all other passenger rail lines and rail lines used to transport hazardous materials; and Authorize the Secretary of Transportation to assess fines up to $100,000 on rail carriers that fail to comply. The bill also mandated a safety analysis on using cell phones and other devices in the cab of the train and reforms the hours of service rule to ensure that train conductors and other personnel receive adequate rest on the job. Here is how positive train control systems work: Digital communications are combined with Global Positioning System (GPS) technology to monitor train locations and speeds. These systems can detect excessive speed, improperly aligned switches, whether trains are on the wrong track, unauthorized train movements, and whether trains have missed signals to slow or stop. If engineers do not comply with signals, the system automatically brings the trains to a stop. ###
05.13.15	05.13.15 Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on Passage of USA Freedom Act – “A Straight Reauthorization is Nonstarter in the House” Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and co-sponsor of the USA Freedom Act, released the following statement: “Today's passage of the USA Freedom Act with a strong bipartisan vote is an important step forward for efforts to reform our nation’s surveillance programs. I believe that this bill is a big win for both privacy and security, by ending the bulk collection of phone metadata and maintaining the capabilities we need by requiring the government to query the data held by telephone companies on a case by case basis and upon court order. It will also make vital reforms to the FISA Court that introduce an independent advocate on the privacy issues implicated by any novel or constitutional issue raised. The bill is evidence that we need not sacrifice our liberty for security, nor vice versa. “The overwhelming support for the House measure should show Senate leaders that a straight re-authorization of Section 215 is a nonstarter in the House, and the time to move forward on these vital reforms is now, not after the statutory deadline passes.” ###
05.11.15	05.11.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on TPA Legislation Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) issued the following statement: "While negotiations of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) were underway, I withheld judgment on its merits. I have not supported fast track authorities in the past, believing that Congress should preserve a role in shaping trade agreements, but was willing to hold off in light of representations that this would be a new type of authority. However, now that the legislation has been finalized and I have had time to fully review the bill, it is clear that TPA is little different from earlier variations of fast track and I will oppose it. "Should TPA nonetheless pass and negotiations move forward on the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a trade deal between the United States and eleven Pacific countries, I urge the Administration to place the highest priority on truly enforceable mechanisms to ensure adherence to labor standards, environmental protections and human rights. Investor state provisions must also not be allowed to permit foreign attacks on our own labor, environmental and other protections. The problem of currency manipulation, which puts American workers at a tremendous disadvantage should also be addressed, if not within, than as an enforceable adjunct to a trade agreement. The United States must also insist our trading partners agree to the highest standard of protection for Intellectual Property in any trade negotiation. "As others have observed, a trade agreement is no alternative for an economic plan. Regardless of the overall impacts of a trade deal, a certain amount of dislocation is inevitable and America must better position itself to compete in this increasingly globalized economy. That means investing in education, worker training related to high-skill jobs, infrastructure and data driven industries. Until we are serious about ensuring American workers are well situated to prosper under any trade deal, I will continue to view them with a healthy skepticism. "Finally, and most significantly, any trade deal must not risk aggravating the already historic and growing disparity between rich and poor in America. Our nation has always prided itself on its upward mobility, and a strong middle class. While trade deals may increase overall GDP, if that increase is confined to those who have largely already prospered and results in even greater downward pressure on the wages of middle income and working class families, the agreements have the potential of making a bad problem, worse. Extreme levels of income inequality are morally indefensible, but they are also poor economics. Any trade agreement must be structured to broadly benefit the American people."
05.06.15	05.06.15 Rep. Schiff Writes Letter to Metro Board Members Opposing 710 Tunnel Alternative After EIR Released Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) sent a letter to Chairman Eric Garcetti and members of the Los Angeles Metro Board opposing the SR 710 North freeway tunnel alternative proposed in the SR 710 North Study by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) and the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). In the letter, Schiff pushes the Board and Metro to instead study a more innovative, multimodal approach, combining mass transit, bikeways, new parks to improve air quality and more efficient ways of moving cargo. "Metro could help reshape the transportation future of Los Angeles by thinking outside the box to get people outside their vehicles, by integrating parks and better urban planning, smart traffic lights and smarter mass transit, all of this and more, and all for less than the cost of a tunnel,” said Schiff. “At the beginning of this process, many in the community were afraid that Metro would plow ahead with a predetermined conclusion that the freeway must be finished, and other ideas would only be entertained so that they might be rejected in a process with only the appearance of deliberation. As the challenges facing Los Angeles are new, I urge Metro to think anew, reject the tunnel, and give serious consideration to other, more forward thinking and more suitable options." The full letter that Schiff sent it below: Dear Chairman Garcetti and Metro Board Members: I write to express my opposition to the SR 710 North freeway tunnel alternative proposed in the SR 710 North Study by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) and the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). After review of the draft Environmental Impact Report/Environmental Impact Statement (EIR/EIS), it is my belief that a tunnel would be cost prohibitive and detrimental to the communities overall, including many cities that I represent in Congress. When the idea of a tunnel was first raised and it was believed that the rare common ground in the decades-long fight over the 710 might be underground, I was willing to explore its fiscal, technical and community feasibility. At the time, Metro represented that due to improvements in tunneling technology, a below ground option might cost the same or only fractionally more than the discredited at-grade proposal – or roughly $1.5 billion. This estimate would prove wildly optimistic. Whatever the technological feasibility, a single-bore or dual-bore tunnel is cost prohibitive and could cost anywhere between $3.15 billion and a whopping $5.65 billion. All of the four other alternative proposals put together would cost less than the even the more modest tunnel option. Furthermore, experience on other major transportation projects teaches us that even these costs are likely to be considerably higher than the estimates produced in an EIR/EIS report. It was also believed by Metro at the time a tunnel was first proposed that the agency would be able to garner strong community support for the idea. This has also proved not to be the case. To the degree a consensus has formed around the tunnel – at least insofar as the communities along its path are concerned – it is a consensus against the proposal, finding it too costly, too disruptive and too backward a solution to transportation needs in the 21st Century. Our communities want new and innovative ways to move people and improve air quality, not more freeways above or below ground with their smokestacks for ventilation and even more vehicles belching exhaust through their neighborhoods. I was discouraged to see that the draft EIR/EIS did not seriously consider a more innovative, multimodal approach, combining mass transit, bikeways, new parks to improve air quality and more efficient ways of moving cargo. These are the approaches favored by so many constituents who have written in to the Board. Many urban areas in the United States, including Los Angeles, are starting to take an "all of the above" approach to addressing their transportation needs using bus, light rail, and other forms of transportation to address their commuting needs. While I believe the bus rapid transit and light rail transit approaches are good starting points, I encourage Metro and Caltrans to continue seeking community input to further explore a multimodal approach that combines the best of these options and makes our communities more interconnected, not divided. Metro could help reshape the transportation future of Los Angeles by thinking outside the box to get people outside their vehicles, by integrating parks and better urban planning, smart traffic lights and smarter mass transit, all of this and more, and all for less than the cost of a tunnel. At the beginning of this process, many in the community were afraid that Metro would plow ahead with a predetermined conclusion – that the freeway must be finished, that it must proceed along its historic route, above or below ground it did not matter – and other ideas would only be entertained so that they might be rejected in a process with only the appearance of deliberation. As the challenges facing Los Angeles are new, I urge Metro to think anew, reject the tunnel, and give serious consideration to other, more forward thinking and more suitable options. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff
04.30.15	04.30.15 Reps. Schiff and Cole, Along With 28 Members, Send Bipartisan Letter Urging Debate and Vote on ISIS War Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Tom Cole (R-OK) sent a letter along with 28 bipartisan Members of Congress to Speaker John Boehner urging that an authorization for use of military force, or AUMF, be brought up for debate and vote in the relevant committees and on the House Floor. “I find it deeply ironic that Congress has been so willing to wade into a diplomatic agreement with Iran that is not yet finalized, but not take up its constitutionally-mandated responsibility to declare and authorize war against ISIS,” said Rep. Adam Schiff.“More than eight months into the war in Syria and Iraq, Congress continues to sit on the sidelines without a debate or vote. Congressional abdication of our responsibility to declare war, or to deny authorization for war, would set a terrible precedent and shift war-making powers substantially, and inexorably towards the Executive.” “Clearly, the president underestimated the threat ISIL could pose to our partners abroad, particularly in the Middle East, as well as to the United States,” said Rep. Tom Cole. “Even though I wish it would have come sooner, I am pleased that the president recently submitted a request to Congress in order to authorize force to combat this dangerous enemy. Especially Since Congress is constitutionally charged with war making power, it is critical that we act on this authority quickly. While the first steps are behind us in the House through conduction of hearings, it is important that we continue to move in a swift manner to debate, consider and vote on legislation on the House floor. Each day that we delay real action on the matter is another day that ISIL grows stronger.” In the letter, the Members wrote: “We are deeply concerned that eight months into Operation Inherent Resolve, the House has taken no action on an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) which would provide a clear legal justification for the actions against ISIL. While hearings have been held in the House Armed Services Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, no markup has taken place. The most recent Legislative Memo released by the Majority Leader contains no suggestion that consideration of an AUMF on the floor is imminent. This dereliction of our constitutional duty causes great injury to the Congress, and threatens our role as a check on the President's power to make war.” The letter was sent along with Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Walter Jones (R-NC), Peter Welch (D-VT), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Peter Defazio (D-OR), Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Charlie Rangel (D-NY), Rob Woodall (R-GA), Peter Visclosky (D-IN), Scott Rigell (R-VA), James McGovern (D-MA), Reid Ribble (R-WI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Mark Sanford (R-SC), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Rich Nugent (R-FL), André Carson (D-IN), Mick Mulvaney (R-SC), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Mark Takano (D-CA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA). The full text of the letter, sent today, is below: Dear Speaker Boehner: Roughly 250 days have passed since the President ordered military action against the Islamic State in the Levant (ISIL). Since that time, the United States, along with our coalition allies, has undertaken thousands of strikes against ISIL targets in Syria and Iraq. Like you, we believe that the United States must confront and ultimately destroy the threat of ISIL, which has shown itself to be a barbaric terrorist group, destabilizing the region, killing thousands, and displacing millions more. However, we are deeply concerned that eight months into Operation Inherent Resolve, the House has taken no action on an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) which would provide a clear legal justification for the actions against ISIL. While hearings have been held in the House Armed Services Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, no markup has taken place. The most recent Legislative Memo released by the Majority Leader contains no suggestion that consideration of an AUMF on the floor is imminent. This dereliction of our constitutional duty causes great injury to the Congress, and threatens our role as a check on the President's power to make war. The President has claimed legal authority for the strikes under the AUMF passed in 2001 in response to the September 11, 2001 attacks. Whatever the legal merits of that argument, the 2001 AUMF is at best an inexact fit for the threat posed by ISIL. ISIL came into existence more than a decade after the passage of the 2001 AUMF, and it has at times come into direct conflict with al Qaeda. The far preferable course, which would send the message of unity and strength, is to pass a new AUMF, specific to ISIL and the threat it poses, rather than relying on an ill-fitting and outdated authorization. The Administration has repeatedly said that it would welcome a new AUMF, specific and tailored to the operations against ISIL. The President, during his State of the Union address, called for Congress to pass a new authority, and in February the Administration transmitted proposed legislative language. We recognize that Members, both Republicans and Democrats, have different views as to how an AUMF should be constructed. However, those differences are all the more reason to allow the House to work its will through the legislative process. Each additional day that passes without Congress taking up an AUMF for our operations against ISIL undermines our authority and role in matters of war and peace. If we refuse to debate a resolution on the weightiest question any nation faces - whether to take military action - we cede to the Executive Branch a power that the framers intentionally delegated to Congress. This shirking of our duty will have lasting effects, serving to expand the scope of executive power at the expense of the Congress. We urge you to instruct the appropriate committees to hold a mark-up and to set aside floor time at the earliest possible juncture for the House to debate and vote on an Authorization to Use Military Force against ISIL. Sincerely, ###
04.28.15	04.28.15 Rep. Schiff Announces Winners of 2015 Congressional Art Competition Burbank, CA –This weekend, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) hosted the annual 28th District Congressional Art Competition Forum and Exhibit at Van De Kamp Hall in Descanso Gardens, La Canada Flintridge. During the exhibit, attended by more than 200 students, teachers and parents, Schiff announced that Lauren Suh’s piece “Gussie” had won first place and will be included in the nationwide Congressional Arts Competition: An Artistic Discovery, in Washington, D.C. Her artwork will hang in the United States Capitol for one year, along with that of other winners from around the nation. Suh attends Immaculate Heart High School. Additionally, Schiff announced that Christine J. Lee, a student from Clark Magnet High School, and Emily Hogeland, a student from John Burroughs High School, had won second and third place, respectively. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Avenia Ghovandian, a student from Glendale High School. Almost 2,000 constituents voted in the “People’s Choice” online contest this year. “Each year, I get the opportunity to see some absolutely amazing artwork submitted by high school students from across our district,” said Schiff. “All of the students involved deserve recognition for their hard work and exceptional talent, and I hope that they will all continue to enrich our community with their artwork. I particularly want to congratulate Lauren, Christine, Emily and Avenia on being named the winners, and look forward to enjoying their artwork in the Capitol and my offices throughout the coming year. Great job, everyone!” Ms. Suh’s artwork was awarded first prize by a panel of local judges for her chalk pastel entitled “Gussie.” She attends Immaculate Heart High School, is in the 12th grade, and is from Hollywood – her artwork will hang in the Capitol for the next year. Second place was awarded to Christine J. Lee, who attends Clark Magnet High School, is in the 12th grade and is from La Cañada Flintridge, for her digital illustration titled “Her Song.” Ms. Lee’s artwork will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, DC office for one year. Third place was awarded to Emily Hogeland, who attends John Burroughs High School, is in the 12th grade and is from Burbank, for her photograph titled “Fish Out of Water.” Her artwork will hang in Schiff’s Burbank District Office for one year. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Avenia Ghovandian, who attends Glendale High School, is in the 11th grade and is from Glendale, for her acrylic painting titled “Beauty Stone.” The “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will be displayed in Schiff’s Hollywood District Office. The judges serving on the panel this year to award the different prizes included Kellye Nakahara Wallett, David Warren, and Janet Workman: Kellye Nakahara Wallett is a well-known watercolor artist who is also known for her role as “Nurse Kellye” in the television series “M*A*S*H.” David Warren is Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Hollywood Arts Council, a nonprofit organization that promotes, nurtures and supports the arts of Hollywood. Janet Workman is an artist who works with a variety of mediums, and is an active contributor to the Elysian Valley Arts Collective’s annual Frogtown Artwalk. This year, there were 64 entries representing 26 high schools in the 28th Congressional District. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition from Congressman Schiff. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition.
04.24.15	04.24.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on the 100th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide Los Angeles, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution in Congress, released the following statement on the 100thanniversary of the Armenian Genocide: “One hundred years ago, the Ottoman Empire attempted to annihilate an entire race in the first genocide of the last century. When it was over, 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children lay dead and many thousands of others barely survived. Despite a brutal campaign of massacres, forced death marches, lootings and rape, the Young Turks failed to destroy the Armenian people as evidenced by the vibrant diaspora and Armenian nation. “When this heinous acts crime was committed, an entirely new word had to be invented to describe it – genocide. The author of the term, Holocaust survivor Raphael Lemkin, specifically cited the campaign of murder against the Armenians as an example of what genocide was meant to describe. “The horrors of the genocide have been compounded by decades of denial by the Turkish government, which continues to fight the truth to this day. The United States has become complicit in this denial by failing to recognize the genocide for decades – and I was deeply disappointed by President Obama’s refusal to use the word ‘genocide’ in his statement today. If not this President, who spoke so eloquently and passionately about recognition in the past, whom? If not after one hundred years, when? “The United States must join the world community – as it has in speaking out against other atrocities and in confronting painful chapters of our own past – in calling the Armenian Genocide a genocide. The time for silence is over.” ###
04.22.15	04.22.15 Rep. Schiff Reads 1,000 Names of the 1.5 Million Armenians Lost in the Genocide During Special Order Hour on House Floor Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), for an entire hour on the House Floor, read the names of a small fraction of the 1.5 million people killed during the Armenian Genocide after business concluded in the House for the day. During the hour, Schiff read 1,000 names of constituents’ relatives and those of the Armenian-American community that were submitted over the past two weeks to the office through social media and email. Schiff’s reading of the names comes the day after the White House confirmed to Armenian-American community leaders that the President would not use the word genocide when he issues a statement Friday on the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. The full hour-long video can be seen here, and Rep. Adam Schiff also tweeted each name, as it was read. "In a single hour, I was only be able to read the names of a mere fraction of those who were killed in the Armenian Genocide,” said Schiff. “To read all of the names of the more than 1.5 million people murdered at the time, would take many weeks, and I hope that the recitation of the victims will help call attention to the magnitude of the crime. A name, unlike a number, is no abstraction – each was a son or daughter, a mother or father, a grandparent, an aunt or an uncle; each was a precious life.” In past years, Schiff has taken to the House floor in April to recognize the Genocide. Two years ago, he spoke on the House Floor in Armenian to recognize and pay tribute to those lost – the first time that language had been spoken in the well of Congress. And last year, he delivered an open letter to the Turkish people urging them to examine their ancestor's role in the first genocide of the 20th century. This past month, Schiff joined over 40 congressional colleagues to introduce the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution. This bipartisan resolution calls upon the President to work toward equitable, constructive, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgement of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide. The resolution will also establish a fair, just, and comprehensive international record of this crime against humanity. This year, 2015, marks the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide – a systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign launched by the government of the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population which left 1.5 million Armenians dead and millions more displaced. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than twenty nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades and has not been recognized by President Barack Obama. ###
04.21.15	04.21.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on President Obama Decision to Not Use Word “Genocide” to Describe Armenian Genocide on 100th Anniversary Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution in Congress, released the following statement after the White House confirmed to Armenian-American community leaders that the President would not use the word genocide when he issues a statement Friday on the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide: “I’m deeply disappointed that the President, once again, will fail to properly describe the extermination of 1.5 million Armenians from 1915 to 1923 for what it was – genocide. How long must the victim's and their families wait before our nation has the courage to confront Turkey with the truth about the murderous past of the Ottoman Empire? If not this President, who spoke so eloquently and passionately about recognition in the past, whom? If not after one hundred years, when? “The United States has long prided itself for being a beacon of human rights, for speaking out against atrocity, for confronting painful chapters of its own past and that of others. This cannot be squared with a policy of complicity in genocide denial by the President or Congress. Last week, the Pope spoke powerfully of the need to bind the wound that continues to bleed in the absence of recognition – I only wish Washington had been listening.” ###
04.20.15	04.20.15 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual Art Competition for High School Students with Online Voting for “People’s Choice” Winner Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he will host the annual Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit for the 28th District, featuring high school students’ artwork from the 28th Congressional District, on Sunday, April 26, 2015. The Congressional Art Competition receives submissions from all across the country. The winner from each Congressional District has their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. In addition, for the last few years, Rep. Schiff hosts a “People’s Choice” award, which will be decided through an online vote. To vote for the “People’s Choice,” constituents should go to Rep. Schiff’s website under Art Competition. Voting will be open through Wednesday, April 22, 2015. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity displayed in the art I receive from high school students across our community. Students, their families, and constituents from across our community will be able to weigh in, just like the panel of judges, and pick the ‘People’s Choice’ winner online,” said Schiff. “I look forward to seeing all the entries and welcoming artists and their families at the exhibition. Go to my website and vote—I’m excited to see who my constituents pick as a winner.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide the opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated in the nationwide competition. The first place winner’s artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, the piece awarded second place will hang in the Congressman’s Washington, D.C. Office for one year, the piece awarded third place will hang in his Burbank District Office for one year and the “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will be displayed in Rep. Schiff’s Hollywood District Office. The winners of the contest will be announced at the 28th Congressional High School Art Competition Forum & Exhibit on Sunday, April 26, 2015. All student participants will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition. The exhibit will be held at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge at Van de Kamp Hall located at 1418 Descanso Drive, La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011. Parking and admission to Van de Kamp Hall are free. Exhibit viewing will begin at 3:00 pm and the Forum and Awards Presentation will take place at 5:00 pm. Light refreshments will be served. To RSVP, please contact Teresa Lamb Simpson in Rep. Schiff’s Burbank District Office at (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555.
04.14.15	04.14.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Reacts to Release of National Park Service Rim of the Valley Draft Report Schiff Will Host Town Hall To Discuss Draft Report on April 27 in La Cañada Flintridge Washington, DC – Today, the National Park Service (NPS) released its draft report on the Rim of the Valley Study, which examined the possibility of expanding the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) to include the Rim of the Valley. The draft report recommends a significant expansion of the existing recreation area and now awaits public comment. After legislation sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in 2007 authorizing the Interior Department to examine the feasibility of increasing the size of the Recreation Area by encompassing part or all of this corridor and preserve it within our National Park system was signed into law, today's report is the next step towards the process of preserving the Rim of the Valley for future generations. In their report, the Park Service recommended Alternative C, which significantly expands the existing SMMNRA boundary to include portions of the study area that are densely populated. Its objectives are to protect natural resources and habitats and provide people with better access to nature for recreational and educational purposes, and it authorizes the Park Service to provide technical assistance to the community. “In the 1970's when the Santa Monica Mountains Recreation was created, Congress had the foresight to see that the Los Angeles population would grow and thrive, and it was necessary to act to preserve the open space and natural wonders around us,” said Rep. Schiff. "Over the past two years, the Park Service has worked to complete their draft report and has now recommended a major expansion of the park, as reflected in Alternative C, to better serve and connect this growing urban population to nature. While I am grateful that the Park Service has shown the foresight of recommending a substantial enlargement of the existing recreation area by embracing Alternative C, I am disappointed that it did not also adopt Alternative D, which would provide the greatest resource protection possible. “I look forward to the public comment period, which will allow residents to weigh in on whether they support the Park Service recommendation or wish to go further. It is plain from the public comment period already undertaken, that there is the broadest possible support for preservation of these natural resources. It’s my hope that after the public comment period, the Park Service will expeditiously conclude its study so we may move forward with the final phase of this lengthy process – enacting legislation to expand the park and preserve these beautiful resources for decades to come.” In 2008, Congress passed Schiff's bill directing the Park Service to conduct a special resource study to determine the possibility of providing federal protection to the Rim of the Valley – an area which stretches from the existing Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, through the Simi Hills and Santa Susannas, Verdugos, and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. The study explored whether any portion of the Rim of the Valley study area was eligible to become a unit of a national park system or added to an existing one, and how the resources could be protected and best utilized by the public. In the fall of 2012, the National Park Service released its preliminary findings, and offered four initial alternatives – Alternatives A through D – and opened up the conversation for public comment. Thousands of residents and members of government agencies, organizations and other institutions submitted their comments to both the NPS and Congressman Schiff’s office, and over 4750 individuals wrote in supporting a combination of the boundary adjustment for the initial Alternatives C and D, which would adjust the boundary of the recreation area to connect many people in urban areas to the park, as well as provide key habitat protections. Alternative A would result in a continuation of current management, and thus no action. Alternative B would authorize the SMMNRA to create partnerships within the study area, but result in no boundary adjustments; NPS involvement would come in the form of technical assistance and cooperative partnerships to establish an interconnected system of parks, habitat and open space. Alternative C would expand the SMMNRA boundary to include areas within the ROTV study area and focus on areas closest to dense urban populations for the purposes of connecting people to parks; it would include the full range of NPS tools and authorities to protect habitats, provide access to recreation and education, and provide NPS technical assistance and capital improvements. Finally, Alternative D would expand the SMMNRA boundary to provide more resource and wildlife protections, and the updated version detailed in the draft report would also include the areas included in Alternative C. Last year, Schiff and other Members of Congress urged the Park Service to adopt a mix of alternatives C and D when drafting their report. In the letter to the NPS, the Members write: “Alternatives C and D both expand the boundary of SMMNRA and would provide SMMNRA the authority to manage the new area in the same manner as the existing NRA, in partnership with existing land management agencies and organizations. But because the two alternatives have different focuses – C on expanding recreational opportunities for urban audiences and D on promoting the long term resiliency of the natural resources within the area – choosing only one of these alternatives would leave thousands of acres of nationally significant resources without adequate protection. The National Park Service should create a hybrid alternative that would include the boundary extensions of SMMNRA of both alternatives C and D. This hybrid alternative would provide comprehensive preservation of the region’s mountain ranges and trail systems and maintain habitat connectivity, while also ensuring that the objectives of the two alternatives are realized.” Schiff will host a town hall for interested constituents and community members to discuss the new draft report and offer feedback and concerns to the National Park Service on the evening of Monday, April 27 at 6:30 pm. The town hall will be held at Descanso Gardens – Van de Kamp Hall (1418 Descanso Drive, La Canada Flintridge, CA 91011) and those interested in attending should RSVP to Schiff’s District Office at (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555. Attending the forum and presenting will be Anne Dove, Rim of the Valley Project Manager from the National Park Service; Joe Edmiston, Executive Director of the Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy; and Daniel Rossman, Southern California Regional Associate, The Wilderness Society. A map of the Rim of the Valley Study Area can be found here, and Alternative C, which was recommended by the Park Service in their draft study, can be found here. The full draft report can be found here. Representative Schiff encourages the public to share their thoughts with him regarding the Draft Report via email at SchiffROTV@mail.house.gov, as well as with the National Park Service via their website at http://www.nps.gov/pwro/rimofthevalley/. ###
04.02.15	04.02.15 Intelligence Committee Ranking Member Schiff Statement on Iran Negotiations Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement: “While important details still need to be worked out, the framework agreement between Iran and the P5+1 indicates that a negotiated resolution of Iran's nuclear program may be possible. While I reserve judgment on whether a final deal will materialize or would enjoy my support, enough progress has been made to warrant the additional time necessary to determine if the remaining issues can be resolved. In the interim, Congress must ensure that its actions do not preclude reaching an acceptable agreement or be seen as scuttling a peaceful path to ending Iran's nuclear ambitions. "Many significant parameters of a comprehensive agreement have been set out, and in greater detail than many, myself included, believed would be possible during this stage of the negotiations. These critical variables -- the number of centrifuges, generation of centrifuges, permissible research, location of uranium stockpiles, duration of an agreement, intrusive nature of inspections, pace of sanctions relief, availability of a snap back in sanctions, among other matters -- are set out with a certain degree of specificity. Nonetheless, within each criteria there remain important uncertainties and I would encourage all members of Congress to withhold judgment until we see whether and what a final package might include. "Preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons is a vital national security imperative for the United States and our allies. Every option must be on the table; importantly, that includes the diplomatic option the P5+1 has been pursuing. Critical issues remain, but this framework indicates that a negotiated resolution may be possible, and I congratulate the P5+1 on its work thus far." ###
04.01.15	04.01.15 Rep. Schiff to Read Names of Some of the 1.5 Million Armenians Lost in the Genocide, During Special Order Hour on House Floor Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that on April 22nd, for an entire hour on the House Floor, he will read the names of a small fraction of the 1.5 million people killed during the Armenian Genocide. Congressman Schiff invites the descendants of Genocide victims -- in his district and around the nation -- to submit the names of family members who were killed for inclusion in his speech and in the Congressional Record. "In a single hour, I will only be able to read the names of a mere fraction of those who were killed in the Armenian Genocide. To read all of the names of the more than 1.5 million people murdered at the time, would take many weeks and weeks, and I hope that the recitation of the victims will help call attention to the magnitude of the crime. A name, unlike a number, is no abstraction -- each was a son or daughter, a mother or father, a grandparent, an aunt or an uncle; each was a precious life. “If your family lost loved ones in the Armenian Genocide, please send me their names and I will read as many as I possibly can on the House Floor. All names will be entered into the Congressional Record." Schiff is encouraging the submission of names by using this online form. This past month, Schiff joined 40 congressional colleagues to introduce the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution. This bipartisan resolution calls upon the President to work toward equitable, constructive, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgement of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide. The resolution will also establish a fair, just, and comprehensive international record of this crime against humanity. This year, 2015, marks the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide – a systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign launched by the government of the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population which left 1.5 million Armenians dead and millions more displaced. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than twenty nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades and has not been recognized by President Barack Obama. In past years, Schiff has taken to the House floor in April to recognize the genocide. Two years ago, he spoke on the House Floor in Armenian to recognize and pay tribute to those lost -- the first time that language had been spoken in the well of Congress. And last year, he delivered an open letter to the Turkish people urging them to examine their ancestor's role in the first genocide of the 20th century.
04.01.15	04.01.15 Schiff, Feinstein, Boxer Applaud FAA Helicopter Noise Complaint System, Urge Further Action to Provide Relief to Homeowners Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA) applauded the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for launching a dedicated helicopter noise complaint system for the Los Angeles County. This system will allow Los Angeles residents to call a local telephone number to file a complaint, as well as submit a noise complaint on a website dedicated to Los Angeles helicopter noise. Feinstein and Schiff, with the support of Los Angeles congressional delegation members, successfully included language in the fiscal year 2014 omnibus spending bill that required the FAA to initiate regulations addressing helicopter noise above Los Angeles within one year of enactment, unless the agency could meet six voluntary criteria regarding helicopter noise, including the creation of a comprehensive noise complaint system. The one-year deadline to meet such voluntary requirements expired in the middle of January and the Secretary of Transportation has yet to make a final determination on whether enough voluntary progress has been made to avoid regulatory action. “I am pleased to see the FAA put a noise complaint system into operation, and especially one that will allow residents to research in near-real time which helicopters are part of the problem," said Rep. Schiff. "Implementation of a noise complaint system is the first concrete result of a now years-long process of collaboration between the FAA, homeowners and helicopter operators. But while this is a step in the right direction, we are still waiting for a final determination from the Secretary of Transportation on the progress of all six voluntary measures set out in the FAA's initial report on helicopter noise. Much more progress needs to be made and it is my hope that this noise complaint system—along with the data it collects—will provide us the necessary information to better identify the bad actors and bring about noise relief to all Los Angeles residents.” “Helicopter noise has disrupted the daily lives of thousands of Los Angeles residents for years, and allowing the public to report incidents to the FAA is a welcome and necessary step toward solving this problem," said Senator Feinstein. “While the reporting system is important, additional action by the FAA is needed—and overdue. The agency must work with pilots and the public to propose new flight patterns and practices. We will continue to press the case for rules that can reduce noise and protect privacy in Los Angeles communities.” Senator Boxer said,“The new noise complaint system will give residents a way to fight back against the excessive noise from low-altitude helicopter flights that has been plaguing many Los Angeles families for years.” A dedicated noise complaint system will provide the FAA, helicopter operators, and the community valuable data in order to begin addressing and identifying measures to mitigate helicopter noise. In order for Los Angeles residents to file a noise complaint, they can either calling 424-348-HELI (4354) or filing a complaint by visiting www.heli-noise-la.com. Once on the website, one can either file a general complaint by inputting their zip code, date and time of disturbance, and the disturbance type or use an interactive map to specifically locate the helicopter that caused the disturbance based on one’s location. The interactive WebTrak map on the website allows individuals to track helicopters flying above Los Angeles County at near real-time. Once the individual has identified the helicopter that caused the disturbance, they can file a complaint from the map, view the flight path, and find out the distance the helicopter was from the individual’s location. Furthermore, the noise complaint website provides information on how to use the Automated Complaint System. Images of the general complaint form and the interactive map can be seen below:
03.26.15	03.26.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on Need for New ISIS AUMF – "No Further Excuse for Delay" Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) and author of legislation providing a limited and narrow authorization for use of military force against ISIL, released the following statement today after the House Foreign Affairs Committee held a hearing on the need for a new ISIS AUMF: "For months, many Members of Congress clamored for President Obama to take the first step and send a draft AUMF up to the Hill – despite the fact that it is Congress' responsibility to declare war under the constitution. And now that the President Obama has, weeks ago, the Foreign Affairs committees in both houses have still failed to take up a bill. "The Senate and House Committees must begin work on marking up an AUMF – any AUMF – that can be brought to the floor, debated, amended and voted on. While I favor an authorization that is narrowly tailored and sunsets past authorizations, the Congress should work its will and determine what form of authorization has the votes for passage. After eight months of unauthorized war, there is no excuse for further delay; our troops are doing their duty, it's time for Congress to do the same." ###
03.24.15	03.24.15 Building on Last Year's Success, More Than Thirty Members of Congress Call for $16.1 Million in Funding for West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and thirty-five Members of Congress from California, Oregon and Washington wrote to the House Appropriations Committee urging them to fully fund an Earthquake Early Warning system. A limited system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley and University of Washington, in conjunction with the United State Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. Schiff’s letter requests additional funding for the Earthquake Hazards Program in USGS to kickstart the process of building out the early warning system so we can be ready for the next big quake. It is estimated that a full system of sensors along the West Coast would cost approximately $16.1 million a year to build, operate and maintain. In December 2014, Congress passed a funding bill for FY2015 which included an additional $5 million specifically for the Earthquake Early Warning system, bringing the total funding for the system for FY2015 to $6.5 million. This was the first time Congress included funds specifically allocated for the system in a spending bill. That $5 million in funding allowed those developing the statewide system to begin purchasing and installing additional sensors, to build new stations, to speed up the ShakeAlert system, and to come closer to deploying comprehensive early earthquake warning coverage throughout earthquake prone regions of the West Coast. In February 2015, the White House released the President’s budget which included $5 million for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system in his Fiscal Year 2016 budget – the first time the President has requested a specific funding amount in his budget, thereby recognizing the importance of the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. “While the United States is the most technologically advanced country in the world, we still lag dangerously behind other countries in implementing one key technology that can save lives, property and infrastructure – an Earthquake Early Warning system,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “A few seconds to a minute of warning could allow doctors crucial seconds to stop a complicated surgery, enable trains to brake, sensitive manufacturing processes to cease, and critical transportation infrastructure to be locked down, and could allow us precious time to move away from windows or locate our children in the house. The federal government has provided the initial funding for the system -- and we will try to do more – but the state governments need to do their part. It’s my hope that by providing federal funding again this year, we can encourage reluctant state legislatures to invest in the system before the ‘big one’ hits.” Schiff was joined on the letter by Representatives Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ami Bera (D-CA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Suzan DelBene (D-OR), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Jim Costav (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), and Maxine Waters (D-CA). The full letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies is below: Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum: As you craft the Fiscal Year 2016 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you provide the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Earthquake Hazards program with $70.552 million, of which $16.1 million is to be provided to transition the earthquake early warning demonstration project into an operational capability on the West Coast. This is a $12.6 million increase over the FY2016 requested level in the President’s budget. The USGS, in collaboration with Caltech, UC Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon has developed an Earthquake Early Warning system that detects waves radiating from the epicenter of a quake and would provide people in California, Oregon and Washington with seconds to even a minute or more of warning. With advanced notice, people can take cover, automated systems can be triggered to slow down trains and manage the power grid, doctors can pause surgeries, and more. The technology has been tested and proven to work effectively. An Earthquake Early Warning system along the West Coast would cost $16.1 million per year to construct, operate and maintain. FEMA has estimated that earthquakes cost the United States, averaged over the long term, more than $5 billion a year. This common-sense investment will save lives, protect businesses, and could make a real difference in more rapid recovery for local communities, the federal government and the economy as a whole. While we cannot predict when and where the next major earthquake will hit, we must do all we can to prepare ourselves so that we can mitigate the injuries, destruction, and chaos as much as possible. We are grateful for your support last year and we appreciate your consideration of our request this year.
03.23.15	03.23.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Honors 2015 Women of the Year Los Angeles, CA– On Friday, March 20, at a luncheon in Echo Park, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honored a group of inspiring women from communities in the 28th Congressional District –West Hollywood, Burbank, Pasadena, Silver Lake, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Los Feliz, Sunland Tujunga (no hyphen), Glendale, Atwater Village, La Cañada Flintridge and La Crescenta. This recognition is made each year during Women’s History Month. “It was wonderful to meet with this group of remarkable women, and to recognize their outstanding work in our community,” said Rep. Schiff. “These women demonstrate the truth of the maxim that if you need something done, ask a busy person. Each has worked tirelessly to support a myriad of charitable, business and community causes, and made an indelible mark on our region. It was an honor to recognize them and to show our appreciation for their extraordinary service.” Below is a full list of honorees from this year: Lynn White-Shelby (Burbank), Kellye Nakahara Wallett (Pasadena), Renae Plant (Los Feliz), Tracy A. Stone (Elysian Valley), Jean Maluccio (La Crescenta), Seda Khojayan (Glendale), Ann Neilson (La Cañada Flintridge), Lynda Rescia (Silver Lake), Cheryl Ortega (Echo Park), Nadia Sutton (West Hollywood), Sandra Caravella (Atwater Village), and Susan B. Stewart (Sunland). These honorees come from all backgrounds and professions and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our communities. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women to recognize who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff entered a special tribute to each woman into the Congressional Record, which is also below, and presented these tributes to each woman. A photo from the event can be seen here. A Tribute to Lynn White-Shelby– 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Lynn White-Shelby of Burbank, California. Lynn graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University with a major in physical education and science, and began her teaching career at Franklin High School in the Highland Park area of Los Angeles, California. Ms. White-Shelby’s business career began in the Public Relations Department at the Los Angeles College of Chiropractic, where she was promptly promoted to Secretary to the President, and later as Assistant to the President and Assistant Director of the Postgraduate Department, developing the first Chiropractic Assistants program. Lynn then went on to work at ACCO Engineered Systems in Glendale, California, as Secretary to the President, which soon led to a management position as their Corporate Insurance and Safety Administrator. Ms. White-Shelby is a dedicated volunteer. Upon retirement, she jumped right into volunteering at the learning center at the Boys & Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley, tutoring at the Main Club, and co-teaching a storytelling/acting class at Burbank’s Roosevelt Elementary School. She is also a devoted and giving member of the La Providencia Guild of Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, serving on numerous committees, working at the Thrift Shop and is currently the First Vice President/President Elect. Lynn also served five terms as President of the Verdugo-Glen Chapter of the American Business Women’s Association (ABWA), where she has been a member for over three decades, and currently serves as the Education Chair, which awards scholarships to women students. In addition, Lynn serves as Vice Chairman on the City of Burbank’s Senior Citizen Board, and as Secretary on the Boys & Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley’s Board of Directors. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Lynn White-Shelby. A Tribute to Kellye Nakahara Wallett – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Kellye Nakahara Wallett of Pasadena, California. Born and raised in Oahu, Hawaii, Ms. Nakahara moved to San Francisco in the 1960’s to establish herself as a professional artist, selling her watercolors of the San Francisco waterfront. In 1968, she married David Wallett and they moved to Los Angeles, where she began her career as an actress. Halfway through the first season of the popular television series “M*A*S*H”, she landed the role of “Nurse Kellye.” A renowned and award-winning artist who generously donates her artwork to many charitable organizations, Kellye’s artwork has been displayed in Pasadena City Hall, the California State Capitol, and in the White House, where at Congressman Schiff’s invitation; she painted a Christmas ornament for the official White House Christmas Tree in 2008. Well-regarded as an enthusiastic and energetic community leader, Ms. Nakahara Wallett’s past volunteer service includes eight years on Pasadena’s Arts and Culture Commission, serving as an Ambassador for the Southern California Cherry Blossom Festival, and an Honorary Committee member and volunteer for the Latino Heritage Parade in Pasadena. She was also active in the American Diabetes Foundation, Neighborhood USA Conference, and the American Red Cross. Currently, she is a twenty-three year volunteer with The Sunshine Kids, a non-profit organization dedicated to children with cancer, and a frequent guest speaker for various Japanese reparation organizations. Kellye is the Artistic Director and Artist-in-Residence for the Towne Singers, sings with the California Philharmonic, and has been a long-time volunteer judge for Representative Schiff’s 28th Congressional District Art Competition Forum & Exhibit. Long-time Pasadena residents, Kellye and her husband David, have two children, daughter Nalani, son William, and four grandchildren, David, William, Max and Grayson. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Kellye Nakahara Wallett. A Tribute to Renae Plant– 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Renae Plant of Los Feliz, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Born in Eumundi, Queensland, Australia, Renae moved to the United States in 1994 with dreams of becoming an actor. After living in New York for six years, where she was a model and actor, she moved to Los Angeles in 2000, and established a management company, Nebula Management. Shortly after, she began a second business, a maternity tee shirt line. In 2007, Renae and her husband, Livinio, rescued the local preschool their daughter attended, Camelot Kids, located in the Silver Lake area of Los Angeles, which had been on the verge of permanent closure. After three months of meetings, the preschool was able to re-open its doors. Now eight years later, with Ms. Plant as the Director, the preschool is known for its warm, nurturing environment that encourages a natural love of learning, and is an award-winning school with a long waiting list. An accomplished organizer, Renae has recently given her time and talent to the Thomas Starr King Middle School, where her daughter, Ilan attends the Environmental Magnet program. In 2014, she joined the Executive Board as Treasurer of Friends of King, a parent support and fundraising group for the school, and that same year, was instrumental in raising substantial funds that will be used to paint the entire school. She launched the “I Keep King Clean” project with a group of parents who clean the school and carry out other beautification tasks, and was ultimately successful in obtaining a professional cleaning service for the school. In addition, Ms. Plant has been a key force with upcoming efforts to decorate the perimeter fences at the school, the “Chain Link Art Gallery” project, and the upcoming renovation of the library and the gym. Married for eleven years, Renae and her husband, Livinio, have three children, Ilan, Mateo and Deklan. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Renae Plant. A Tribute to Tracy A. Stone– 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Tracy Stone, of Elysian Valley, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Tracy Stone received a Bachelor’s Degree in Art History from Cornell University in New York, a Master’s Degree in Architecture from The University of Texas at Austin, and in 1989, was licensed as an Architect by the State of California. In 1991, Ms. Stone opened her own firm, Tracy A. Stone Architect. The office has completed a variety of projects, including a ‘green’ teahouse, an animal shelter and a children’s dance studio. Ms. Stone and members of her firm created and organized the annual “Frogtown Artwalk” in Elysian Valley, which started in 2006, as a small event showcasing the artists and artisans inhabiting the small commercial/industrial buildings along the Los Angeles River in Elysian Valley. It has grown into a full-scale community event that engages musicians from the surrounding areas, community organizations, local residents, as well as artists and artisans. The event has also featured various activities geared to parents and youth. The Frogtown Artwalk has traditionally celebrated the relationship between the Elysian Valley and the adjacent Los Angeles River, helping to bring interest as well as attention to a long forgotten resource. In 2008, Tracy Stone and Allen Anderson established a non-profit organization, the Elysian Valley Arts Collective, which manages and funds the annual artwalk, and which has allowed the event to grow in complexity and size. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Tracy A. Stone. A Tribute to Jean Maluccio – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Jean Maluccio of La Crescenta, California. Jean is a savvy businesswoman who helps oversee the Maluccio Company, a local investment firm, but is best known for her unparalleled volunteerism that benefits the entire Crescenta Valley. Jean served as the Executive Director of the Crescenta Valley Chamber of Commerce for more than 18 years, without pay, and continues to have an active role with the chamber as an advisor, and helps ensure the smooth operation of chamber events that include the Taste of the Foothills and Hometown Country Fair. She served as President of the Crescenta Valley Chamber of Commerce in 1994, 1995, 2009 and 2010. Jean was also one of the founders of the Crescenta Valley Fireworks Association, a nonprofit which organizes an annual 4th of July fireworks display, and works countless hours each year arranging for the carnival entertainment, handling site permits, working with security for the event and selling tickets. Ms. Maluccio has also been actively involved with Prom Plus, where she was on hand to secure donations of food and serve food to guests at the organization’s 20th anniversary gala. She also gives of her time with Relay For Life, an annual 24-hour event held at Clark Magnet High School, where hundreds of people walk on the school field to raise funds to fight cancer. Jean not only obtains the donated food to feed the participants, but also stays for most of the 24 hours to ensure that the food is ready when needed. In addition, Jean also volunteers for the Glendale Police Department, working at the Montrose COPPS substation representing the department in many capacities and answering questions from the public. A strong supporter of our nation’s military, Jean was a driving force in raising awareness and helped organize fundraisers for the refurbishment of the war memorial at Two Strike Park in La Crescenta. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Jean Maluccio. A Tribute to Seda Khojayan – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Seda Khojayan of Glendale, California. Seda Khojayan immigrated to the United States from Iraq in 1976. Currently, she is a member of the Soroptimist International of Glendale, serves as a Commissioner on the City of Glendale Commission on the Status of Women, and on the Board of Directors of the YWCA of Glendale. Mrs. Khojayan has been a dedicated member of the Armenian Relief Society of Western U.S.A., Inc. (ARS) for over three decades, serving on its Regional Executive Board for two terms and in the capacities of Chair, Treasurer and Advisor for the ARS Sepan Chapter in Glendale. Seda uses her professional experience as a Programmer/Data Security Analyst for a major car manufacturer and education in Economics and Public Administration, to help plan and implement fundraising efforts, including grant writing, to help Armenian organizations such as the ARS secure funding for various philanthropic, educational and social projects for low income families and for the needy. She also served as a fundraising committee member of Homenetmen Glendale “Ararat” Chapter, Homenetmen Navasartian Games & Festival, Armenian Cultural Foundation (ACF), and for the City of Glendale, including the Unity Fest, Man’s Inhumanity to Man, and Relay For Life. Throughout the years, Seda has received numerous awards, including the City of Glendale Commission on the Status of Women’s Jewels of Glendale Women of Courage Award in 2008, the ACF’s Community Service Award in 2013, and the Armenian American Chamber of Commerce’s Woman in Community Service Award in 2014. Mrs. Khojayan and her husband, Shirak, have two sons, Shaun, a federal criminal defense attorney, and Dikran, an industrial engineer, and one granddaughter, Lillian. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Seda Khojayan. A Tribute to Lynda Rescia – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Tuesday, March 17, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Lynda Rescia of Silver Lake, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Lynda Rescia was born in Ludlow, Massachusetts, and attended Ludlow High School. She went on to study Communications with a specialization in Film at Wayne State University in Detroit, Michigan. When Lynda moved to Los Angeles, California, she worked for a few years in the film industry in editing, and then for a commercial house working on television commercials. In 1984, Lynda married Michael Miller, who is a freelance photographer, and had a son, Byron, in 1986. Ms. Rescia continued to work freelance on commercials until the birth of her daughter, Haviland, in 1988. Soon after, Lynda went back to school part time to complete a degree in Child Development, and graduated magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Arts and received her teaching credential in 1994. Ms. Rescia has been passionate about education for many years. She worked in the Pasadena Unified School District and did substitute work for the Los Angeles Unified School District, before she was hired by Ivanhoe Elementary School as a kindergarten teacher in 1995. Since then, she has remained at Ivanhoe Elementary School spending most of her years as a primary teacher, then as a coach/coordinator, and currently as Principal. Under her leadership, the school, which is well-known for its high level of parent involvement, was honored as a “California Distinguished School” in 2014, and has maintained its glorious reputation for academic excellence. In addition to dedicating herself to Ivanhoe Elementary School, Lynda has volunteered with The Great Los Angeles River CleanUp. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Lynda Rescia. A Tribute to Cheryl Ortega – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Cheryl Ortega of Echo Park, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Born in Los Feliz and raised in the Echo Park area of Los Angeles, California, Ms. Ortega’s father’s family arrived in Echo Park from Massachusetts in 1917, hoping to be part of the early movie industry. Ms. Ortega attended Los Feliz Elementary School, Our Mother of Good Counsel School, Immaculate Heart High School and Immaculate Heart College. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in French and a Bilingual Teaching Credential in Spanish. Cheryl has been passionate about education from a very young age. She has been a teacher for nearly half a century, and has been teaching in Echo Park at Logan Span School for over two decades. Ms. Ortega’s close association with the immigrant community has led her to actively advocate for people whose children she has taught in bilingual early education programs for almost 50 years. Along with her professional career, Cheryl is active and engaged in volunteering for the community and its schools. Currently, she serves on the Board of Directors of United Teachers Los Angeles, representing English Learner students and their teachers. She also serves as the Co-Chair of the Schools, Libraries, and Community Organizations of the Greater Echo Park Elysian Neighborhood Council, and has been a member of the Council through several different administrations. Cheryl and her husband, John, have three children, John, Kristina and Sara, and five grandchildren, Danny, Jake, Amanda, Ben and Caleb. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Cheryl Ortega. A Tribute to Nadia Sutton – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Nadia Sutton of West Hollywood, California. Born in Brussels, Belgium, Nadia has led an interesting life both as an actress and an activist. She has traveled extensively and lived all over the world, including residing in Israel, France, Spain, England and the United States, where she moved in 1979. As an actress, Ms. Sutton has worked in theater, radio, television and film. Passionate about civil rights, she began her activism career by supporting the Algerian independence cause while in France, and in England by helping create an alternative radio station and working against the censure of a Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, Transgender (LGBT) magazine. Ms. Sutton has been involved in numerous organizations in the Los Angeles area with a primary focus on LGBT, women’s rights, and animal issues. For many years, she has organized protests, lobbied legislatively and fought against LGBT discrimination, and for marriage equality. Nadia served on the West Hollywood Lesbian and Gay Advisory Board for twelve years, and is a Founding Board member of The Lavender Effect, a virtual museum dedicated to educating the public about the historical contributions of LGBT people, especially those from the Southern California area. She sits on the West Hollywood Women’s Advisory Board, on the Board of Directors of the West Hollywood Chamber of Commerce, and is active with C.I.T.Y. x1 (Community Intervention Through Youth), an organization dedicated to organizing free social events for LGBT youth. A devoted animal lover, she co-founded PAWS LA (Pets Are Wonderful Support), an organization dedicated to helping people living with AIDS keep their beloved animal companions, where she is currently serving as a Board member, and is a volunteer with Catnippers, an association that helps spay and neuter feral cats and kittens. Nadia resides in West Hollywood with her cat, Barnaby. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Nadia Sutton. A Tribute to Sandra Caravella – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Tuesday, March 17, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Sandra Caravella of Atwater Village, a unique neighborhood in Los Angeles, California. Born and raised in the Atwater Village area of Los Angeles, Ms. Caravella attended Atwater Elementary School, Irving Junior High School and John Marshall High School. With the exception of a few years when she and her husband, Joe, also an Atwater Village native, resided in Michigan, Sandra has been a lifetime resident of Atwater Village, where she and Joe raised their family. While a young mother, Sandra volunteered at her sons’ school, Atwater Avenue Elementary School as a teacher’s aide, and became involved in the Parent Teacher Association. When her youngest son was six years old, she took a part time job at the Los Angeles Convention and Visitors Bureau working as a registration supervisor at conventions, seminars and trade shows, where she remained for over two decades. Well-regarded in her community, Ms. Caravella is a passionate and dedicated volunteer. She is a founding member and current Board member of the Friends of Atwater Village (FAV), whose first venture was to successfully save the historic Van de Kamp Bakery building. As a FAV Board member, Sandra has been instrumental in attaining grants for community beautification projects that include murals illustrating the area’s history, flower containers, and a decorative gate at the Los Angeles River and Acresite Street. With three other FAV Board members, she produced calendars featuring local history and a book entitled: Images of America: Atwater Village. Ms. Caravella is a member of the Atwater Village Chamber of Commerce, was the chamber’s project manager of the sign committee, and serves on the Tree Lighting and River Committees for the Atwater Village Neighborhood Council. Married for nearly half a century, Sandra and her husband, Joe, have two sons, Jeff and Brian, two grandsons, Vincenzo and Nico, all of whom live in Atwater Village. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Sandra Caravella. A Tribute to Susan B. Stewart – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Susan B. Stewart of Sunland, California. Born and raised in Vermont, Susan Bishop moved to the Sunland-Tujunga area in the late 1990’s, and in 2010, she married Richard Stewart. Well-regarded in her community, Susan is involved in numerous organizations where she puts her superior organizing skills to good use. Ms. Stewart is on the Sunland-Tujunga Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors and the chamber’s Spring Carnival Committee, and has served on the Nomination Committee, By-Laws Committee and Marketing and Membership Committee. Susan is a Founding Board member and current Board member of the Sunland-Tujunga-Shadow Hills Community Fund whose mission is to support student programs at Verdugo Hills High School and the local newspaper, Voice of the Village, and is on the fund’s Fireworks Festival Committee. In addition, she is an active member of the Sunland-Tujunga Rotary Club, has served as President and Secretary, and continues to help with many of their annual events, including Winterfest and the Fourth of July Parade. Past President and Past Secretary of Renaissance Speakers Toastmasters Club, Past Secretary of District 52 of Toastmasters International, she is currently an Ambassador for the organization. With a long career as a management consultant, specializing in the areas of ethics, expansion and establishment, Susan assists with the management of her husband’s painting contracting business in Sunland. Ms. Stewart is an avid horsewoman, and has taught horseback riding for many years, and one of her greatest joys is riding on the trails in the beautiful Sunland-Tujunga foothills. Between Susan and Richard, they have four children: Moriah, Thoreau, Jake and Justin, and two grandchildren: River Jane and Elliot. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Susan B. Stewart. A Tribute to Ann Neilson – 28th Congressional District Woman of the Year Monday, March 16, 2015 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year, we pay special tribute to the contributions and sacrifices made by our nation’s women. It is an honor to pay homage to outstanding women who are making a difference in my Congressional District. I would like to recognize a remarkable woman, Ann Neilson of La Cañada Flintridge, California. Born in Los Angeles and raised in Manhattan Beach, Ms. Neilson and her husband, Bob, have lived in La Cañada Flintridge for over fifty years. Well-regarded as a straightforward, tireless community leader, Ann is involved in numerous charitable organizations in La Cañada Flintridge. She has been a Docent at the Lanterman House for over two decades, and is a past and present Board member. She is active in the Assistance League of Flintridge (ALF), a nonprofit service organization of volunteers committed to serving the needs of the community through philanthropic programs developed and administered by its members. Ms. Neilson was Chair of the College Application Essay Committee, Chair of the Retired Service Volunteer Committee, a volunteer at the Bargain Box Thrift Shop, and a member of the Budget Committee. Ann’s current project with ALF is Chair of their impressive Summer School program for La Cañada Flintridge children grades one through eight, a project that the league subsidizes. Another organization that is near and dear to her heart, Ann has been active in the Girl Scouts of America for nearly forty-six years. She served as a Leader, was President of the Mt. Wilson/Vista Girl Scout Council for six years, Director and Co-Director of two Girl Scout Day Camps in La Cañada Flintridge, and Co-Organizer of the 100th Anniversary Girl Scout Float for the 2012 Pasadena Tournament of Roses Parade. Ms. Neilson is also very involved in the La Cañada Flintridge Tournament of Roses Association, established in 1979, where she is a Founding Member. The association has produced volunteer-made floats for the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Parades for nearly four decades, winning awards in the majority of the parades. She served as President for three years and now serves as Past President. Married for nearly sixty years, Ann and Bob have four children, Beth, Karen, Nancy and Jim, and one grandchild, Emily. I ask all Members to join me in honoring an exceptional woman of California’s 28th Congressional District, Ann Neilson. ###
03.18.15	03.18.15 Over Forty House Members Introduce Bipartisan Resolution to Recognize the Armenian Genocide Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Robert Dold (R-IL), Adam Schiff (D-CA), David Valadao (R-CA), and Frank Pallone (D-NJ), along with 40 other Members of the House of Representatives introduced the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution. This bipartisan resolution calls upon the President to work toward equitable, constructive, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgement of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide. The resolution will also establish a fair, just, and comprehensive international record of this crime against humanity. This year, 2015, marks the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide – a systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign launched by the government of the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population which left 1.5 million Armenians dead and millions more displaced. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than twenty nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades and has not been recognized by President Barack Obama. “Denial of the Armenian Genocide undermines foundations for durable peace and security, making future atrocities more likely,”said Rep. Robert Dold. “As the greatest force for human dignity in the world, the United States has an obligation to send an unequivocal message that we will never forget those that were lost, nor shall we tolerate any country that hides behind bully tactics to shroud violations of human rights.” “One hundred years ago, one and a half million Armenian men, women and children were deliberately murdered in the first genocide of the 20th Century – these facts are indisputable,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “And on this important anniversary and while there are still survivors among us, we in Congress and the President have an opportunity and an obligation to send a strong message that we will never forget those who were lost, and we will call this crime against humanity what it was, genocide. We feel a powerful sense of urgency and the profound call of moral duty to recognize the Armenian Genocide unequivocally and without delay.” “One hundred years after the Genocide, the sense of loss and pain is still strong as many in our community have a direct connection to someone who was unable to escape,” said Rep. David Valadao. “While those impacted by the Genocide are always in our hearts, let us take an extra moment to remember the two million Armenians whose lives were lost.” “As we recognize the 100th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, we remember the one and a half million Armenians who were slaughtered by Ottoman Turks,” said Rep. Frank Pallone. “Now is the time for the United States government to do the moral thing and recognize these atrocities for what they are—genocide. While we mark 100 years since this horrible act of violence we also recommit ourselves to the work of speaking out against oppression and senseless violence. Today, I join my colleagues in remembering the victims and paying homage to the Armenian people who, for thousands of years, have shown their perseverance and strength in the face of great challenges,” said Congressman Frank Pallone. The full text of the resolution, introduced today during a press conference on Capitol Hill, reads: Calling on the President to work toward equitable, constructive, stable, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgment of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide, and a fair, just, and comprehensive international resolution of this crime against humanity. Whereas the Obama Administration has, since early 2009, sought to improve Armenian-Turkish relations through diplomatic efforts to lift the Republic of Turkey's blockade of Armenia and facilitate an end to Ankara's refusal to establish diplomatic relations with Yerevan; Whereas at the start of this process, President Barack Obama had, on April 6, 2009, voiced the United States Government's expectation that Armenia-Turkey dialogue would `bear fruit very quickly', but that since then, the Obama Administration has commended Armenia's participation in this dialogue while holding Turkey largely responsible for the lack of results from this process, with the Secretary of State noting, on June 4, 2012, that, on this matter, `the ball remains in Turkey's court.'; Whereas on April 24, 2013, President Barack Obama stated, `A full, frank, and just acknowledgment of the facts is in all of our interests. Nations grow stronger by acknowledging and reckoning with painful elements of the past, thereby building a foundation for a more just and tolerant future.'; Whereas the Republic of Turkey, rather than acknowledging and reckoning with painful elements of the past, has escalated its international campaign of Armenian Genocide denial, maintained its blockade of Armenia, and increased its pressure on the small but growing Turkish civil society movement acknowledging the Armenian Genocide and seeking justice for this systematic campaign of destruction of millions of Armenians, Greeks, Assyrians, Pontians, Syriacs, and other Christians upon their biblical-era homelands; Whereas the United States is on record as having officially recognized the Armenian Genocide, in the United States Government's May 28, 1951, written statement to the International Court of Justice regarding the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, through President Ronald Reagan's April 22, 1981, Proclamation No. 4838, and by Congressional legislation, including House Joint Resolution 148 adopted on April 8, 1975, and House Joint Resolution 247 adopted on September 10, 1984; Whereas even prior to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the United States has a record of having sought to justly and constructively address the consequences of the Ottoman Empire's intentional destruction of the Armenian people, including through Senate Concurrent Resolution 12 adopted on February 9, 1916, Senate Resolution 359 adopted on May 11, 1920, and President Woodrow Wilson's Decision of the President of the United States of America Respecting the Frontier between Turkey and Armenia, Access for Armenia to the Sea, and the Demilitarization of Turkish Territory Adjacent to the Armenian Frontier, dated November 22, 1920; Whereas President Barack Obama entered office having stated his `firmly held conviction that the Armenian Genocide is not an allegation, a personal opinion, or a point of view, but rather a widely documented fact supported by an overwhelming body of historical evidence', affirmed his record of `calling for Turkey's acknowledgment of the Armenian Genocide', and pledged that `as President I will recognize the Armenian Genocide'; and Whereas the United States national interests in the establishment of equitable, constructive, stable, and durable relations between Armenians and Turks cannot be meaningfully advanced by circumventing or otherwise seeking to avoid materially addressing the central political, legal, security, and moral issue between these two nations, Turkey's denial of truth and justice for the Armenian Genocide: Now, therefore, be it Resolved,That the House of Representatives calls on the President to work toward equitable, constructive, stable, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgment of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide, and a fair, just, and comprehensive international resolution of this crime against humanity.
03.03.15	03.03.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on Speech by Prime Minister Netanyahu to Congress Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “This morning, Prime Minister Netanyahu laid out the concerns held by many Israelis about a possible agreement with Iran over its nuclear program. Given the behavior of the Iranian regime and its threats to wipe Israel off the map, these concerns deserve our serious consideration. We must approach negotiations with Iran with our eyes wide open, aware that this regime has a long history of deceit and cynicism in its dealings with the international community. "At the same time, we must consider the consequences of a failure to reach an agreement and whether there is a plausible alternative to military action. This was a subject on which I would have liked to have heard much more from the Prime Minister. "My own belief is that in the absence of an agreement, Iran will again begin to enrich to 20% and beyond, bringing on a new line of faster and more efficient centrifuges. Congress will pass – with my support – a new set of even more stringent sanctions and we will work to keep the international community behind them. From here, it may be a race for time between increased pressure on Iran and the possibility it brings that country back to the negotiating table, and crossing a red line that brings Israel, the United States or both, to war. “I am still deeply skeptical that an agreement will be reached, and that the Iranian clerics are prepared to make the concessions necessary to end their nuclear aspirations. But we will know soon enough, and I would encourage my colleagues to reserve judgment until we see whether in fact we have a good deal, a bad deal or no deal at all."
03.02.15	03.02.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on Attending Netanyahu Address Tomorrow Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement: “I plan on attending the speech by Prime Minister Netanyahu, but not without serious reservations. Speaker Boehner should never have extended the invitation in the manner that he did – without consulting the White House – or at the time that he did, in the middle of an Israeli election. I also do not believe that the House Floor should be used as a platform for a foreign head of state to lobby Congress on a bill opposed by the President. “But as the Prime Minister did accept the Speaker's invitation, I will respectfully hear what he has to say. The issues surrounding Iran's nuclear program are of seminal importance and we must not let the Speaker's gambit distract us from the far more important issues at stake. It is also vital that the unseemly controversy surrounding the speech not threaten the strong bipartisan support for Israel in the United States, which would be a tremendous departure from the past and not in the long term best interests of either country.”
02.13.15	02.13.15 Over 90 Bipartisan Members of Congress Introduce "Vaccines Save Lives" House Resolution Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Charlie Dent (R-PA), Thomas Marino (R-PA), and Peter Welch (D-VT) introduced the bipartisan “Vaccines Save Lives” House Resolution with over 90 other Members of Congress. In the wake of the latest outbreak of measles in the United States, there has been a debate in the country over the safety of vaccines and whether parents should get their children vaccinated. The resolution is intended to highlight the public and global health achievements of vaccinations and immunizations around the world, and to urge vaccination. It recognizes the importance of vaccinations and immunizations in the U.S. as a matter of saving lives, stopping the spread of contagious and often fatal diseases, and maintaining the public health, economic and national security of the American people. Additionally, the resolution states that there is no credible evidence to show that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases in healthy children or adults and commends the work of the international community and various domestic and global organizations that have worked to keep us all safe through vaccination. It encourages more research to improve existing vaccines and to create more vaccines to protect ourselves from other fatal and infectious diseases. Finally, it urges parents, in consultation with their health care provider, to follow the scientific consensus in favor of timely vaccination of their children. “There’s no question that vaccines are safe, effective and critical to saving lives and creating a shared immunity in our communities and across the world,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “With the latest measles outbreak in California and elsewhere, it’s more important than ever that children are vaccinated to prevent the spread of preventable and dangerous diseases -- including those that were previously eradicated. This bipartisan resolution recognizes the importance and scientific necessity of this life-saving medicine.” “Vaccinations save lives. It is unconscionable that children are being put at risk because of decisions based on faulty information and untruths,” said Rep. Charlie Dent. “I believe it is important for Congress to speak out and assure Americans of not only the medical necessity of vaccinations, but also of their safety.” "Recent outbreaks of measles have raised greater awareness about some serious public health issues we are have experienced. But we have the tools to prevent many of these diseases and outbreaks,” said Rep. Thomas Marino. “That prevention starts with individual and familial responsibility. This resolution simply states my colleagues and I support vaccinations for children so they can stay healthy and grow to fulfill their potential within our society - and it supports more research and more extensive efforts for outreach and awareness." “Every parent’s first concern is the health and safety of their children,” said Rep. Peter Welch. “The recent measles outbreak is a stark reminder of how important it is that all parents vaccinate their children. Not doing so risks the health of their child and children in their community.” This bipartisan legislation is endorsed by the American Medical Association (AMA), the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the Children’s Hospital Association (CHA), and the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP). The text of the resolution can be found here: A resolution to recognize the importance of vaccinations and immunizations in the United States. Whereas the contributions of Louis Pasteur and Edward Jenner to the discovery of the principles of vaccination and immunology are among the most consequential health findings in human history; Whereas vaccines have made it possible for the world to have eradicated smallpox, saving approximately 5 million lives annually, and for the international community to be on the brink of eradicating polio and to have saved an estimated 5 million people from this incurable disease over the past 2 decades; Whereas vaccines have dramatically reduced the spread of many more crippling and potentially life-threatening diseases such as diphtheria, tetanus, measles, mumps, and rubella, and vaccines prevent the spread of commonly infectious and potentially fatal diseases such as chickenpox, shingles, influenza, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, meningococcal disease, pneumococcal, rotavirus, and whooping cough (pertussis); Whereas the scientific and medical communities are in overwhelming consensus that vaccines are both effective and safe, and the dissemination of unfounded, and debunked, theories about the dangers of vaccinations pose a great risk to public health, and scientifically-sound education and outreach campaigns about vaccination and immunization are fundamental for a well-informed public; Whereas an estimated 43,000 adults and 300 children die annually from vaccine-preventable diseases or their complications in the United States, and the health and livelihood of young children, seniors, individuals with immunodeficiency disorders, and those who cannot be vaccinated, is particularly compromised by communities with low vaccination rates; Whereas substantial research has shown that vaccination is a highly cost-effective form of preventive medicine, and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimates that vaccinations will save nearly $295 billion in direct costs and $1.38 trillion in total societal costs in the United States; Whereas it is estimated that vaccinations will prevent more than 21 million hospitalizations and 732,000 deaths among children born in the last 20 years, and that more than 100 million children all over the world are immunized each year and vaccines have saved an estimated 2.5 million children annually; Whereas one in five children worldwide still lack access to even the most basic vaccines and as a result, an estimated 1.5 million children a year die from vaccine-preventable conditions such as diarrhea and pneumonia or suffer from permanently debilitating illnesses; Whereas a strong investment in medical research to improve existing vaccines and develop many more life-saving vaccines is beneficial to all, both at home and abroad, and a robust immunization infrastructure is essential to the public health and well-being of the people of the United States by preventing and isolating outbreaks of contagious diseases where they start; Whereas encouraging high vaccination rates in the United States protects our citizens from contracting vaccine-preventable diseases that are pandemic in countries with low vaccination and immunization rates; Whereas routine and up-to-date immunization is the most effective method available to prevent the infection and transmission of potentially fatal diseases; Whereas the United States has been a leader in promoting vaccinations around the world through U.S. Agency for International Development, the Center for Disease Control, Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative, UNICEF, the World Health Organization, and a host of other multilateral and non-governmental organizations; Therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) Commends the international community, global and domestic health organizations, the private sector, school and community leaders, and faith-based organizations for their tireless work and immense contributions to bolstering our global and domestic health through vaccination; (2) Affirms vaccines and immunizations save lives and are essential to maintain the public health, economic and national security of the people of the United States; (3) Recognizes that the lack of vaccination can cause a true public health crisis, and that there is no credible evidence to show that vaccines cause life-threatening or disabling diseases in healthy children or adults; (4) Encourages a continued commitment to research to improve vaccines and to develop new vaccines against other infectious and fatal diseases, and (5) Urges parents, in consultation with their health care provider, to follow the scientific evidence and consensus of medical experts in favor of timely vaccinations to protect their children and their community.
02.11.15	02.11.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on President Sending Draft Authorization to Hill Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) and author of legislation providing a limited and narrow authorization for use of military force against ISIL, released the following statement: “The Administration’s engagement with Congress on a new authorization for use of military force against ISIL has been enormously beneficial and should jumpstart Congressional action. With the receipt of specific language from the President, Congress has run out of excuses for any further delay of a debate and vote on a new authorization. “The Administration has been carefully considering how to craft an authorization of our mission against ISIL and I believe its proposal contains important limiting provisions – including a three year sunset and an immediate repeal of the 2002 Iraq AUMF – but there are some key aspects of the proposal which I believe must be narrowed further. In particular, a new authorization should also include a sunset of the 2001 AUMF; without one, any sunset of the new authorization will be ineffectual, since the next president can claim continued reliance on the old one. Such a result would fail to meet the goal set by the President last summer when he argued that that the old authorization should be refined and ultimately repealed. Additionally, a new authorization should place more specific limits on the use of ground troops to ensure we do not authorize another major ground war without the President coming to Congress to make the case for one. "There are additional concerns over the lack of a geographic limitation and a broad definition of associated forces which will also be the subject of debate. In the days ahead, I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to build on the President's proposal and provide a properly-tailored authorization for the war against ISIL.”
02.04.15	02.04.15 Feinstein, Schiff Announce Major New Funding for West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System in President's Budget Washington, DC – Today, Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that President Obama had included $5 million for the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning system in his Fiscal Year 2016 budget released this week. This is the first time that the President has requested a specific funding amount in his budget, thereby recognizing the importance of the West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System. The Earthquake Early Warning system is being developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley and the University of Washington in conjunction with the U.S. Geological Survey. It can provide users with seconds to even a minute or more of warning before shaking hits, depending on the distance to the epicenter. A limited system already been deployed for test users has proved that the early warning technology is sound. “A fully-built out West Coast earthquake early warning system is critical to saving lives and protecting infrastructure by giving us a heads up before the next ‘big one’ hits,” said Rep. Schiff. “By including an additional $5 million in funding from last year’s initial federal investment, President Obama is acknowledging that this is something that cannot wait any longer. We couldn’t agree more. Through the appropriations process, we will work to make sure that we secure this additional funding, so residents have a critical advanced warning to seek cover, automatically slow or stop trains, pause surgeries and more. “The next West Coast earthquake is a question of when, not if, and an earthquake early-warning system is necessary to save lives, reduce property damage and protect critical infrastructure,” said Senator Feinstein. “The Obama administration has now expressed its support for this project by requesting additional funds to build it. I will work with my fellow West Coast senators and representatives this year to secure federal funds and hope to see the state and private sector step up and contribute their fair share.” In December 2014, Congress passed a funding bill for FY2015 which included an additional $5 million specifically for the Earthquake Early Warning system, bringing the total funding for the system for FY2015 to $6.5 million. This was the first time Congress included funds specifically allocated for the system in a spending bill. That $5 million in funding allowed those developing the statewide system to begin purchasing and installing additional sensors, build new stations, speed up the ShakeAlert system, and come closer to deploying comprehensive early earthquake warning coverage throughout earthquake prone regions of the West Coast. In October 2014, Senator Feinstein and Rep. Schiff were joined by 35 other members of Congress in sending a letter to the President urging him to provide funding for an earthquake early warning system in his FY2016 budget request. Schiff and Feinstein are pleased that President’s budget, for the first time, allocated funds specifically for the system and overall funding for the system was increased. In the letter, the Senators and Members wrote: As you prepare your Fiscal Year 2016 Budget for the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), we strongly urge you to request increased funding for USGS’s earthquake-related programs, including an additional $16.1 million for the development and operation of a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) System. After the recent magnitude 6.0 earthquake in Napa, California that killed one person, injured more than 300 people, and caused an estimated $300 million in damages, as well as the September magnitude 4.0 earthquake that struck the Puget Sound region, we are once again reminded of how important it is that the United States has a robust earthquake early warning system. Earthquake Early Warning is proven technology that is already fully operational in countries like Japan and Mexico. USGS, in conjunction with the California Institute of Technology, the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon, is currently working to adapt the technology for the West Coast of the United States and has developed a prototype system for test users along the West Coast. During the earthquake in Napa County, test users at UC Berkeley received ten seconds of warning, and those in San Francisco and San Jose received even more. This is enough warning to take steps necessary to prevent casualties and mitigate destruction, including slowing or stopping trains and cars; turning off supplies of oil, natural gas, and chemicals; securing large manufacturing equipment; stopping elevators and opening their doors; and securing sensitive computer data. The effectiveness of EEW largely depends on the number and placement of sensors to ensure that there is adequate coverage wherever an earthquake may hit—and this requires additional resources. Congress recognizes the value of this system and has demonstrated its commitment to providing additional resources for EEW by including additional funding in the House and Senate Fiscal Year 2015 Interior Appropriations bills. Therefore, we urge you to request in your Budget at least an additional $16.1 million for the development of this system so that the West Coast will be prepared for the next catastrophic earthquake. This is proven technology that will save lives and reduce the economic impact of an earthquake; it simply needs to be properly funded. That letter can be found here.
01.28.15	01.28.15 Rep. Schiff Announces Staffing Changes in Personal Office and Hires at House Intelligence Committee Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced staffing changes in his personal office and new hires for the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). Michael Bahar will join the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence as staff director, and Timothy Bergreen will join as deputy staff director. Replacing Bergreen as Chief of Staff in the Congressman’s personal office is Jeff Lowenstein, who currently serves as Legislative Director and Deputy Chief of Staff. Patrick Boland, who currently serves as Communications Director and Senior Advisor to Schiff in his personal office, will continue in that role and also join the Committee as Communications Director. HPSCI Staff Director – Michael Bahar Michael Bahar will join the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence as Staff Director for the Minority. He previously served as General Counsel for the Minority Staff of the House Intelligence Committee. Between March 2010 and February 2012, he served in the White House as Deputy Legal Advisor to the National Security Council Staff. While on Active Duty with the Navy Judge Advocate General's (JAG) Corps, Bahar deployed twice, once to Afghanistan as Deputy Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) to a Special Operations Task Force, and second to the Arabian Gulf and Horn of Africa as the SJA to a naval strike group. In the Navy, Bahar also served as the Aide to the Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Navy, as Deputy SJA to the Vice Chief of Naval Operations, as Assistant Staff Judge Advocate to Naval Special Warfare Development Group, and as a Prosecutor. Prior to going on Active Duty, Bahar was a litigation associate in the New York Offices of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. Bahar grew up in New York and graduated from New Rochelle High School. He has a B.A. in Political Science from Yale University, an M.Phil in International Relations from Cambridge University, a J.D. from Harvard Law School and an LL.M. in International/National Security Law from Columbia University. Bahar has also been an adjunct professor at NYU and at the University of North Florida, as well as the Artistic Director of a non-profit theatrical production company. Bahar is married to Hannah Yelland, an actress, and together they have one dog (Henry), and are expecting their first child in April. HPSCI Deputy Staff Director – Timothy Bergreen Timothy Bergreen will join the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence as Deputy Staff Director for the Minority. For the last decade Tim has served as Schiff’s Chief of Staff and foreign policy and national security advisor, and prior to that as Legislative Director. Before joining Schiff’s personal office staff, Bergreen was Special Assistant to the Director of the State Department’s Policy Planning Staff, where he focused on U.S. policy towards rogue states, democracy promotion, and contingency planning for post-conflict and stability operations. He has also served as foreign affairs and defense legislative assistant for Senator John Breaux and in a variety of positions in the United States House of Representatives. In addition to his government service, Bergreen has practiced law in Palo Alto, California and has worked as a political consultant and policy advocate in Washington, DC. He holds a B.A. in Political Science from Vassar College, an M.A. in Political Science from Stanford University, and a J.D. from Stanford Law School. Bergreen and his wife, Ann Danelski, live in Bethesda, Maryland with their four children. Personal Office Chief of Staff – Jeff Lowenstein Jeff Lowenstein will replace Bergreen as Schiff’s Chief of Staff. Lowenstein has been a member of Schiff’s personal office staff since 2006, most recently as Deputy Chief of Staff and Legislative Director. He previously served as a legislative assistant, and has advised Schiff on a variety of issues including intelligence matters, intellectual property, technology, and criminal justice. Lowenstein received his B.A. from Georgetown University in government and economics. He is originally from New York City and currently resides in Washington, D.C. with his wife, Lisa, and newborn daughter, Mariella. HPSCI and Personal Office Communications Director – Patrick Boland Patrick Boland will continue to serve as Communications Director and Senior Advisor to Schiff in his personal office, and also will join the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence as Communications Director for the Minority in the coming months. Boland has worked for Schiff in his personal office for the past three years handling all media inquiries and advising on legislative matters. Previously, he served as an communications aide to Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Rep. Scott Murphy (D-NY). He graduated from Colby College in Maine with a B.A. in government, and is originally from Pasadena in Schiff’s congressional district.
01.28.15	01.28.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Introducing Narrowly-Tailored Authorization for Use of Military Force Against ISIL Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the ranking member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), announced he is introducing a narrowly-tailored authorization for use of military force against ISIL. The bill, similar to one he introduced last year, is designed to give the President authority to carry on the military campaign he began almost six months ago and provides Congress an opportunity to debate and vote on the war against ISIL in Iraq and Syria, a goal that both Speaker John Boehner and President Barack Obama have stated and which Congress has yet to meet. First, the measure would provide a three-year authorization for the use of force against ISIL in Iraq and Syria. Second, the measure would harmonize the legal authorities under which the President is authorized to take offensive action by sunsetting the 2002 Iraq AUMF immediately and by sunsetting both the new authorities and the 2001 AUMF three years after the enactment of the joint resolution. And third, the resolution prohibits the use of American ground forces in a combat mission in Iraq or Syria. “More than five months after strikes began against ISIL in Syria and Iraq, Congress has yet to debate and take a vote on an authorization to wage war, in clear abdication of our constitutional duties,” said Schiff. “ISIL represents a serious danger to the United States, having taken over large swaths of the region and used it to terrorize the population. With thousands of foreign fighters joining its ranks who have the ability to return to the United States and Europe, we have a compelling interest in stopping ISIL. There is no doubt that our current offensive amounts to war, and Congress should take action both to authorize its prosecution and to set limits on that authorization so it may not be used by any future administration in a manner contrary to our intent." Schiff continued, “The bill I’m introducing today authorizes the use of force against ISIL, narrowly tailored to provide the President with the authority he has said is necessary to achieve our military goals. It also immediately repeals the 2002 AUMF and sunsets the 2001 AUMF, both of which provide a poor description of the nature of the conflict in which we are engaged more than a decade after their passage. Last month, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee took an important first step by debating and voting on a draft authorization – it’s my hope that today's introduction of this bill can help jumpstart the process in the House so Congress gets off the sidelines. Congress needs to do its job and debate and vote on an authorization, so the troops we have fighting this war know that we, too, have done our duty.” The draft text of the resolution can be found below: To authorize the use of United States Armed Forces against the terrorist organization Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (“ISIL”). Whereas for months Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (“ISIL”) has been engaged in a campaign of murder and mayhem across a broad swath of Iraq and Syria that has killed thousands of innocent people and terrorized millions; Whereas ISIL has brought under its control large areas of Iraq and Syria and announced on June 29, 2014, the establishment of a new caliphate; Whereas in its conduct of military operations, its treatment of personnel captured on the battlefield, and its behavior towards civilians in areas under its control, ISIL has shown a level of brutality and depravity that shocks the conscience; Whereas ISIL has brutally murdered American, British, and Japanese hostages and continues to hold and threated the lives of other western hostages; Whereas the threat posed by the recruitment of ISIL fighters in the United States and Europe and the prospect of these fighters returning to the United States or allied countries jeopardizes the security of the United States and its allies; Whereas ISIL poses an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States and if left unchecked will be the locus of plots to attack our homeland; Whereas the rise of ISIL, the continuing threat posed by al Qaeda, and the redeployment of United States combat troops from Afghanistan highlight the need to re-examine and harmonize the legal authorities under which the President is authorized to take offensive military action; and Whereas the President has authority under the Constitution to take action to protect the United States and its citizens from imminent threat or attack but Congress alone holds the power to declare war: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This joint resolution may be cited as the “Authorization for Use of Military Force Against ISIL Resolution”. SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES. (a) In General.—The President is authorized to use the Armed Forces of the United States against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (“ISIL”). (b) Geographical Limitation.—The authority granted in subsection (a) shall be confined to the territory of the Republic of Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic. The limitation of this subsection shall not apply to the Armed Forces of the United States engaged in training of indigenous Syrian or regional military forces for the purpose of combating ISIL (c) No Authorization For Use Of Ground Forces In Combat.—The authority granted in subsection (a) does not include the authority for the deployment of ground forces in a combat role. For purposes of this subsection, “ground forces in a combat role” does not include special operations forces or other forces that may be deployed in a training, advisory, or intelligence capacity. (d) Termination.—The authority granted in subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution. (e) War Powers Resolution Requirements.— (1) SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.—Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress declares that this section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution. (2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—Nothing in this joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution. SEC. 3. REPEAL OF PRIOR AUTHORIZATIONS FOR USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES. (a) Repeal.—The following provisions of law are hereby repealed: (1) The Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (Public Law 107–243; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note). (2) The Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107–40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note). (b) Effective Date.—The repeal made by subsection (a)(2) shall be effective as of the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution. SEC. 4. REPORTS TO CONGRESS. (a) In General.—The President shall, at least once every 60 days after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate a report on matters relevant to this joint resolution, including actions taken pursuant to the exercise of authority granted in section 2 and the status of planning for efforts that are expected to be required over the next 60 days. (b) Consolidation.—To the extent that the submission of any report required in subsection (a) coincides with the submissions of any other report on matters relevant to this joint resolution otherwise required to be submitted to Congress pursuant to the reporting requirements of the War Powers Resolution, all such reports may be submitted as a single consolidated report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate.
01.26.15	01.26.15 Rep. Schiff Announces 2015 Nominations to U.S. Service Academies Burbank, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he has nominated eleven students from the 28th Congressional District to U.S. service academies for the class of 2019. Four of the five United States service academies require a Congressional nomination in order to receive an appointment. “Each one of these students has compiled an outstanding resume of accomplishments, excelled in extracurricular activities and sports, and demonstrated excellence in academics,” said Rep. Schiff. “These students are deeply committed to serving our country, and I am extremely proud to have nominated these young men and women for our U.S. Service Academies. I’m confident these students will be among the future leaders of our country.” Below is a list of the students Rep. Schiff has nominated: · Lucien Brule (Glendale resident, Campbell Hall Episcopal) –Military Academy and Air Force Academy · Lauren Case-McFate (Sunland resident, Verdugo Hills High School) –Naval Academy and Military Academy · Kyle D’Ambrosio (La Crescenta resident, Crescenta Valley High School) – Air Force Academy and Naval Academy · John Howe (Burbank resident, John Burroughs High School) – Air Force Academy · Hogan Lee (La Crescenta resident, Crescenta Valley High School) – Military Academy · Michael Ospina (Burbank resident, John Burroughs High School) – Naval Academy · Arron Pak (Glendale resident, graduated from Glendale Adventist Academy) – Air Force Academy · YunSung ‘Felix’ Park (La Cañada Flintridge resident, La Cañada High School) – Naval Academy and Air Force Academy · Janel Valerio (Hollywood resident, graduated from Immaculate Heart High School) – Air Force Academy · Minor Wetzel (La Cañada Flintridge resident, La Cañada High School) – Air Force Academy, Naval Academy and Military Academy · Thomas Wilson (Burbank resident, John Burroughs High School) – Naval Academy The four academies requiring a Congressional nomination are the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, does not require a Congressional nomination. All five academies offer young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked, nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing them for an officer's commission in the armed forces. Students interested in applying to a Service Academy for the Class of 2020, should call Congressman Schiff’s District Office at 818-450-2900 or 323-315-5555, or visit https://schiff.house.gov to obtain an application form. The application deadline for next year’s class is November 20, 2015.
01.21.15	01.21.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on President's State of the Union Address Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), released the following statement in reaction to the President’s State of the Union address this evening before Congress: “Tonight, the President laid out his vision for an improved economy and help for the middle class. While our economy is far better than it was in the midst of the Great Recession, we still have a long way to go – and by addressing wage stagnation, making education affordable to all and investing in our middle class, we can ensure that a strengthening economy brings prosperity to all families. By reforming our tax code and helping expand opportunity for the middle class, we can generate rising incomes and give everyone the chance to succeed. “The President also addressed the complex national security challenges facing the country more than a decade after 9/11 and years after the death of Osama Bin Laden. The President appealed to Congress to authorize the use of force against ISIS and this is vital – but make no mistake, this is a debate and vote that should have taken place five months ago when we first began strikes against ISIS in Syria and began deploying troops to Iraq. The Administration must resist the impulse to seek an authorization that is overly broad, without geographic limitation, a prohibition on the use of American troops in a combat mission, or a meaningful sunset date not subject to unilateral administrative extension. In light of the longevity and extraordinarily broad interpretation given the two existing AUMF's, the Congress should not grant this or any future administration authority carte blanch. "By addressing cybersecurity legislation in his highest profile speech of the year, the President acknowledged what many of us already know - that the vulnerability of our nation's businesses and critical infrastructure must be addressed, and addressed soon. For too long, our companies, families and government have been vulnerable to criminals, hackers, and a broad range of state and non-state actors – and there is much more we need to do. I’m looking forward to working with the Administration to craft cyber-threat information sharing legislation that addresses these risks, while maintaining our privacy and civil liberties. “The President must also continue to press for important reforms of the metadata program and FISA Court, both of which are essential to maintaining a proper balance between privacy and security, and which he alluded to in tonight’s speech. In addition to working with Congress, the President should take steps within his own authority to reform our surveillance programs, including ending the bulk collection of domestic phone records in favor of phone companies retaining their own data which could be queried on a case by case basis. "These economic and national security challenges are real and we can meet them, provided we are willing to work together in a bipartisan way. I am determined to do my part, and hope that this Congress can become one of the most productive in years."
01.15.15	01.15.15 Rep. Adam Schiff – High Speed Rail Should Not Run Through Angeles National Forest Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) expressed opposition to the California High-Speed Rail (HSR) Authority’s plan to study running the high-speed rail through the Angeles National Forest. The original route from Palmdale to Burbank proposed by the Authority bypassed the Angeles National Forest altogether and ran alongside California State Route 14. This is strongly preferable to the new proposal to tunnel through the forest, which wasn’t even under consideration prior to this summer. Schiff has worked for years to preserve and protect the Angeles National Forest and surrounding Rim of the Valley. He authored legislation signed by President George W. Bush to study the formation of a new or expanded recreation area in the region. Within the next few weeks, the National Park Service is expected to release its draft report on which areas should be given the enhanced resources and protection that would result from their inclusion in such a recreation area and Schiff will be introducing legislation in the upcoming session of Congress to make such an expanded park a reality. In addition, President Obama recently designated the San Gabriel Mountains a national monument and has directed the Forest Service to devise a management plan to govern the new monument. Building a high-speed rail through the Angeles Forrest would run contrary to both of these important initiatives. “California needs high-speed rail – but it needs to be done in the right way, with proper thought given to how a particular route will affect communities and the environment. I believe the HSR Authority should focus its attention on the original route instead of studying any proposal to go through the Angeles National Forest. Such a proposal to go through the forest will only further delay construction of the high-speed rail throughout California due to the potentially negative impacts it would have on the Forest and surrounding Foothills.” Schiff also joined with Rep. Judy Chu (D-El Monte) to send a letter this month to Dan Richard, the Chair of the California High-Speed Rail Authority, urging him to scrap the new “East Corridor” route from consideration altogether. In the letter, Schiff and Chu write: “Planning massive construction of a rail corridor through the forest while the Rim of the Valley and San Gabriel Mountains are under active consideration as a recreation area, and before the Forest Service can devise a management plan for the existing monument makes little sense. Either planning for the rail line would have to be put on hold for years, or any plan that would go through the forest would have to be subject to radical revision later. Either way, the costs to the project in dollars, delay, and opposition would be high. We do not believe the East Corridor is a viable alternative to connecting the high-speed rail between Palmdale and Burbank. Any benefits gained by going through the forest do not outweigh the far greater costs to the project and the damage that might be done to our environment. We therefore ask the Authority to abandon any study to build the high-speed rail through the Angeles National Forest. “ The full letter can be found below: Mr. Dan Richard Chair California High-Speed Rail Authority 770 L Street, Suite 800 Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Mr. Richard: We are writing to express our strong concern over the recent proposal to route the High-Speed Rail through the Angeles National Forest and San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. As Members of Congress who have worked for more than a decade to preserve the beauty of the mountains, forest, and wildlife, we share the concerns expressed by our constituents that this new proposed route would be damaging to an environment we are working so hard to preserve. We urge the California High-Speed Rail Authority to reject consideration of tunneling through the Angeles National Forest. Since our election to Congress, we have worked hard to preserve the Angeles National Forest, the Rim of the Valley Corridor, and the San Gabriel Mountains. In the upcoming session of Congress, we will each be introducing legislation that would preserve the Rim of the Valley and San Gabriel Mountains as part of a new or expanded national recreation area. In addition, President Obama recently designated the San Gabriel Mountains as part of a national monument. This means that the U.S. Forest Service will now have three years to devise a management plan to govern this new monument. Planning massive construction of a rail corridor through the forest while the Rim of the Valley and San Gabriel Mountains are under active consideration as a recreation area, and before the Forest Service can devise a management plan for the existing monument makes little sense. Either planning for the rail line would have to be put on hold for years, or any plan that would go through the forest would have to be subject to radical revision later. Either way, the costs to the project in dollars, delay, and opposition would be high. We do not believe the East Corridor is a viable alternative to connecting the high-speed rail between Palmdale and Burbank. Any benefits gained by going through the forest do not outweigh the far greater costs to the project and the damage that might be done to our environment. We therefore ask the Authority to abandon any study to build the high-speed rail through the Angeles National Forest. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. We appreciate your consideration of our thoughts and look forward to working you on this issue moving forward.
01.08.15	01.08.15 Rep. Adam Schiff Tapped as Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) was named by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi as the new Ranking Member, or top Democrat, of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). The Committee oversees the activities of the Intelligence Community. “I feel very honored to have been named as Ranking Member of the Intelligence Committee and I am deeply grateful for the trust placed in me by Leader Pelosi and the Democratic Caucus. The Committee has one of the most important and difficult tasks in the Congress – keeping our country safe and overseeing the many agencies within the Intelligence Community. As the tragic events of the last 24 hours make clear, the work of our intelligence agencies and our relationships with allies will continue to be of unsurpassed importance in protecting our nation and values. There will be no shortage of issues to come before Congress in this session, from addressing new threats of terrorism at home and around the world, to reforming our surveillance capabilities and oversight, as well as securing and reinforcing our nation’s cybersecurity. “I want to thank our outgoing Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger for his tremendous leadership over the past four years, and I will continue to rely on his considerable expertise in many areas of intelligence and particularly regarding cybersecurity – an issue he has long and effectively championed. I also look forward to working closely with Chairman Nunes and the other members of the Committee to ensure strong and bipartisan oversight as we maintain the security, privacy and values of the American people." In a statement naming Schiff as the Ranking Member, House Democrat Leader Nancy Pelosi said: “Today, it is my privilege to name Congressman Adam Schiff as the Ranking Member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence. Congressman Schiff has impeccable national security credentials, having previously served on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee, and the House Select Intelligence Oversight Panel of the Appropriations Committee. As a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, Congressman Schiff has been a vital voice on the most pressing national security challenges of our time, including counter terrorism efforts and challenges in the Middle East. He has proven himself to be a capable leader and a proponent of surveillance reforms. “Protecting American families is the greatest responsibility of Congress. The House Select Committee on Intelligence is responsible for providing intelligence professionals with the resources and tools needed to preserve our national security while protecting the civil liberties and privacy of Americans. Congressman Schiff has my full confidence that he will represent the priorities of our Caucus and the values of the American people.” The Ranking Member is the senior-most member from the minority party and places Schiff in the important “Gang of Eight,” which refers to the four top members of the House and Senate Intelligence Committees along with the Senate Majority Leader, Senate Minority Leader, House Speaker and House Minority Leader. By law, the President must keep the Gang of Eight informed of our country’s most secret intelligence activities to maintain proper oversight. Schiff has served for seven years as a member of the Committee after being named by the Leader to the committee in 2007, and has served for the past two years as the ranking member of the Tactical and Technical Subcommittee, which oversees the country’s space-based intelligence, cybersecurity and signal intelligence agencies. He is also a co-founder and chair of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. Schiff is a former federal prosecutor, having served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles.
01.07.15	01.07.15 Rep. Schiff Statement on Attack Against Charlie Hebdo in France Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, released the following statement: “Today’s murderous assault on the offices of Charlie Hebdo in Paris has left a dozen people dead and touched off a manhunt for the terrorists, who escaped in a car and are still at large. I join with the French people in mourning their dead and hope for the quick capture of the murderers who perpetrated what French President Francois Hollande rightly termed ‘an act of exceptional barbarism.’ The Paris attack was also a direct assault on the most cherished pillar of a free society – the freedom of speech – and all of us have a duty to defend the right of journalists, commentators and other creators to speak and write freely and without fear. “For more than two centuries, the United States and France have shared a commitment to the ideals of democracy. We have fought and died together to defend liberty, from the Battle of Yorktown, where France helped secure our independence, to Omaha Beach, where thousands of American GIs died to liberate the French people from Nazism. The attack on Charlie Hebdo reminds all of us that the fight for freedom goes on, and that we stand shoulder to shoulder with the people of France.”
01.06.15	01.06.15 Rep. Schiff Sworn Into Congress for New Term Representing California's 28th Congressional District Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) was sworn into Congress for his eighth term to serve California's 28th Congressional District. Schiff also announced that he will continue to serve on the powerful House Appropriations Committee and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. “Over the next two years, we have the opportunity – both Democrats and Republicans – to work together to accomplish some much-needed goals,” said Schiff. “We need to modernize our nation’s crumbling infrastructure, bring manufacturing back to America, reform our complex tax code, and provide economic certainty by avoiding fiscal cliffs or government shutdowns. It’s my hope that we can put the destructive partisan battles of the past behind us and really get to work this session.” Rep. Schiff will continue representing the 28th District in Congress, including all or parts of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood. Prior to serving in the House of Representatives, Schiff completed a four-year term as State Senator for California's 21st State Senate District, chairing the Senate Judiciary Committee, the Senate Select Committee on Juvenile Justice and the Joint Committee on the Arts. He led legislative efforts to guarantee up-to-date textbooks in the classroom, overhaul child support, and pass a patient's bill of rights. Before serving in the Legislature, Schiff served with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Los Angeles for six years.
12.19.14	12.19.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Sony Hacking Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement: "The North Korean government's outrageous act of cyberterrorism against Sony demands a forceful response and I hope that President Obama will ensure that Kim Jong Un and his regime are held to account for an act of economic and political aggression against the United States. I applaud the work of the Intelligence Community and the FBI for their work in tracing the attack to its source. The DPRK, as does any country, has the right to express its displeasure over The Interview through proper diplomatic channels, but never by engaging in a sustained cyberattack combined with threats to physically harm American citizens who choose to watch a movie. Pyongyang’s power to stifle free speech and artistic freedom must be universally condemned and the Kim regime must be made to understand that acts such as these will only deepen its diplomatic and economic isolation. "The Sony hack is also a wake-up call to America and the west, who have been far too complacent in the face of the demonstrated and growing cyber threat posed by Russia, China, and Iran, as well as North Korea. Our national security is not only dependent on physically safeguarding the American people, but also developing the means to prevent a rogue nation or a terrorist group from launching a cyberattack that results in hundreds of millions of dollars in damage or the loss of life. As a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I have been working with my colleagues to address the cyber threats posed by state and non-state actors. When the 114th Congress convenes in January I expect that our committee will intensify its efforts to safeguard our critical infrastructure and economy. This must be a top priority. "I am proud to count much of the entertainment industry as my constituents and I know how much this attack has hurt them and I pledge to do everything possible to ensure that we close vulnerabilities and work to ensure that this never happens again. I am deeply concerned by the precedent of this cyber attack preventing the distribution of a film and hope that it can be widely disseminated in the near future -- this would be the most powerful repudiation of North Korea's belligerent cyber attack. I would also hope that the media would exercise restraint in publishing the private details of personal emails stolen by North Korea -- doing otherwise merely intensifies the harm done by this illegal act."
12.15.14	12.15.14 Senator Feinstein and Congressman Schiff Announce Major Federal Funding for West Coast Early Warning System Pasadena, CA – Today, Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Congressman Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that Congress has included $5 million in FY 2015 funding bill, also known as the CROmnibus, for a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System, the first time Congress has ever provided funding specifically for the system. A limited system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley and University of Washington, in conjunction with the United State Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. This $5 million in funding will allow those developing the statewide system to begin purchasing and installing additional sensors, build new stations, speed up the ShakeAlert system, and come closer to deploying comprehensive early earthquake warning coverage throughout earthquake prone regions of the West Coast. “An earthquake early-warning system is essential to save lives, reduce property damage and protect critical infrastructure. This five million dollar federal investment is a down payment on building an integrated, state-wide system,” said Senator Feinstein. “These federal dollars are sorely needed, but more funding is still necessary to complete the system. While the state and private sector must contribute their fair share, I will continue to work with West Coast senators and representatives to prioritize federal funds for this life-saving project. We must get it done before the next major earthquake strikes.” “It’s absolutely critical that the West Coast implement and build out an earthquake early warning system to give us a heads up before the ‘big one’ hits, so we can save lives and protect infrastructure,” said Congressman Schiff. “This funding will help build out additional stations, speed up the ShakeAlert system, and make it more reliable in our highest priority areas – including Los Angeles and the Bay Area – and those critical few seconds or a minute of warning will allow people to seek cover, automatically slow or stop trains, and pause surgeries. This first phase of funding will allow the work to begin expanding the system, and we will continue to work to secure future funding along with our other federal, state and local partners.” "We at Caltech applaud Congress for approving the impactful initial funding for an earthquake early warning system," said Thomas F. Rosenbaum, president of the California Institute of Technology. "This vital step toward implementation wouldn't be possible without the leadership of the California congressional delegation." Earlier this year, Schiff led a group of 25 Members from California, Washington and Oregon in organizing a request that the committee fund an early earthquake warning system. Schiff’s letter requested additional funding for the Earthquake Hazards Program in USGS to kickstart the process of building out the early warning system so we can be ready for the next big quake. The letter can be found here. Senator Feinstein was critical in securing the language in the Senate Appropriations bill. The text in the bill reads: Funding for Natural Hazards programs includes $59,503,000 for earthquake hazards, of which $5,000,000 is provided to transition the earthquake early warning demonstration project into an operational capability on the West Coast. A critical component of the earthquake early warning system is maintaining the existing real-time broadband and strong motion seismic networks along with geodetic monitoring networks. As the earthquake early warning system is developed, USGS is directed to collaborate with universities, companies and other Federal agencies with expertise and existing digital seismic observing networks to continue precise observation of critical fault locations.
12.10.14	12.10.14 Congress Significantly Ups Funding For Planetary Science in Omnibus Appropriations Package Set to Pass This Week Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the FY 2015 Omnibus Appropriations package, also known as the CRomnibus, significantly upped funding for planetary science programs, as well as supporting the full range of NASA priorities in both robotic and human spaceflight. Not only will Cassini, Curiosity and other existing missions be funded through next year, but the Mars 2020 rover and a Europa mission are set on a course that should result in a sample caching mission to Mars and a full exploration of one of the most interesting bodies in our solar system – Jupiter’s moon, Europa. “After three years of fighting the Administration for adequate funding for space exploration, this appropriations package properly supports NASA’s priorities, and especially NASA’s crown jewel, the planetary science program,” said Rep. Schiff. “By specifically laying out Congress’s plan for our planetary science program – a Mars 2020 mission and a trip to Europa, two of the science community's highest priorities – it’s my hope that the Administration will now work hand-in-hand with us to make this happen. I want to thank Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Chakah Fattah for working with us to restore adequate funding to planetary science. I only wish it wasn’t necessary to do so year after year after year.” This past May, the House Appropriations Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee set overall funding for planetary will be at $1.45 billion, including a total of $302 million for the Mars program of which not less than $100 million is for the Mars 2020 rover, something that will meet the decadal goals of advancing a sample return. The bill also includes $100 million for a Europa Clipper mission to the Jupiter system, which could be launched as early as 2021. In the final bill posted Tuesday night, and expected to pass both the House and Senate this week, NASA will be provided $18.01 billion, $549 million above the President’s request for this year and $364 million above last year. Planetary science will be funded at a total of $1.437 billion, an increase of $157 million or 12%, which will support the continued funding of the Opportunity rover and the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, as well as the Mars 2020 mission. It also specifically delineates $118 million for a flagship mission to Europa in the future, an increase of $102 million or 686% over the previous year’s funding level – through this appropriation, Congress is specifically directing NASA to begin planning a mission to Jupiter’s moon in the future.
12.09.14	12.09.14 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on Release of the Interrogation and Detention Report Washington, DC Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement following Senator Dianne Feinstein’s declassification and release of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s executive summary of the interrogation and detention report: “Today, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released its long awaited report on the use of enhanced interrogation procedures by the CIA during the last decade – it was important that they do so. America cannot put this dark chapter behind it without a full explanation to the American people of what was done in their name. America does not torture – that is not who we are, nor who we want to be. But America did torture, and it is vital that we never do so again. Torture is immoral, contrary to our ideals, inconsistent with the rule of law and destructive of our democracy. “Even now, there are prominent voices claiming that the enhanced interrogation techniques used to elicit information from terrorists did not amount to torture. I challenge anyone undergoing the techniques described in the report while in captivity to make such a claim. Nevertheless, while there is any dispute over what these procedures amounted to, it is all the more important that the American people know precisely what was involved so they can form their own judgment, and they can only do so through the publication of this information. “The report states that the CIA misled or lied to Congress and the White House, not only about the effectiveness of the techniques used on detainees, but about the program more generally. Although I was not yet a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence at the time, I am deeply troubled by these allegations since Congressional oversight cannot function effectively without a willingness by the intelligence community to be open and candid – even if only in a classified session. “The report also concludes that torture was not effective in gaining critical intelligence. This is unsurprising – those experienced in interrogations have long concluded that people will say anything under torture and for every good lead, you may get a hundred bad ones. Some will dispute this conclusion and say the torture ‘worked,’ but the most fundamental point is that we should not be engaged in torture no matter what its efficacy. To say we should do so because it works, is to say that America's most cherished values must give way to brutal expediency. That would be a tragic outcome and one I hope this report will quickly put to rest.” Schiff, along with forty Members of Congress, this past year sent a letter urging President Barack Obama to quickly declassify the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence report's conclusions on the CIA’s enhanced interrogation program, as well as the dissenting views and CIA response to the report. In the letter, the Members wrote: “Together we stand, as we know you do, for the proposition that our nation should set an example for the world in humane treatment of detainees and abiding by the rule of law. Part of that commitment means acknowledging times when we failed to live up to our values and our laws, even when doing so is uncomfortable. We urge you to take this opportunity to cast some new light on a dark period in our history. The sooner the summary of the report and its findings are made public in their entirety, the sooner we can move on from this unfortunate chapter in our history.” Read the full letter here.
12.04.14	12.04.14 Defense Authorization Bill Urges Pentagon and Secretary Hagel to Put Names of "Lost 74" on Vietnam Wall Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that a provision urging the Pentagon and Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to add the names of 74 sailors lost on the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans during the Vietnam War to the Vietnam Wall was included in the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act, which was passed in the House of Representatives today and is expected to be voted on in the Senate next week. A similar amendment was passed by the House in their version of the annual defense authorization bill. On June 3, 1969, the USS Frank E. Evans was cut in half by an Australian aircraft carrier in the South China Sea – 74 American sailors lost their lives. The USS Frank E. Evans was participating in a joint Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) exercise called "Sea Spirit" in the South China Sea with more than 40 ships of SEATO nations, at the time of the collision with HMAS Melbourne. Despite operating in Vietnamese waters immediately before deployment to Exercise Sea Spirit, and being scheduled to return to activities supporting the war effort after the exercise, it was determined that since Exercise Sea Spirit took place outside the geographical limit for the combat zone the crew was ineligible for inclusion on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. While the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans was not in the combat zone as defined by Executive Order 11216, the ship was supporting the ongoing military conflict in Vietnam and the crew was instrumental in advancing American military objectives in Vietnam. The crew had also participated in the conflict just days before the collision. Vietnam veterans have long argued that inclusion on the monument should not be determined by geographic location, and exceptions to this rule have previously been made for service members killed as part of the conflict but not in Vietnam itself. For example, those involved in operations in Laos (Laos was later included in the combat zone) and those dying in transit to or from Vietnam have been made are eligible for the memorial. Since first being approached several years ago by a family of a sailor lost on the ship, Rep. Schiff has been pushing the Administration and successive Defense Secretaries to rectify this situation. After meeting with Rep. Schiff in Nov. 2010, Secretary of the Navy Mabus expressed his support for adding the 74 sailors to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. “Before he leaves office, Secretary Hagel has a chance to provide an important measure of solace to the families and fellow sailors of those lost on the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans and put the names of the Lost 74 on the Vietnam Memorial Wall,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “The names not only deserve to be on the Wall, but we should act while some of their parents are still alive.” The U.S.S. Frank E. Evans Association praised inclusion of the provision and urged the Secretary to act quickly before he left office. “The tragic loss of the USS Frank E Evans on 3 June, 1969, continues to haunt the families and shipmates of the 74 lost sailors who gave their lives for their country,” said Tim Wendler, President of the Association. “I lost my father days before my second birthday, and my mom, became a much too young 21 year-old widow. This haunting continues because we, as a nation, have failed to adequately address an issue which could, once and for all, provide closure to the families, shipmates and survivors of this tragedy.” The Vice President of the Association, Steve Kraus, stated: “I can’t think how awful it must have felt in 1985 when the Box Family traveled to visit the Vietnam Memorial in Washington D.C. to find their son, Thomas Belue Box was not on the Wall. Forty-five years later his name and the names of the other 73 lost are still not recognized for the greatest sacrifice one can give, their lives. In 1999, then Senator Hagel of Nebraska, made a commitment to Eunice Sage that he would do everything within his power so see that the ‘Lost 74’ sailors names of the USS Frank E. Evans be added to the Vietnam Memorial in Washington D.C. The Frank E. Evans Association is hopeful he makes good on his commitment.” William “Randy” Slaughter, a constituent of Schiff’s in Glendale, stated: “I served on the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Kearsarge at the time of the incident and the Evans was one of our escort ships and we were close by when the accident happened. The cause for the fallen 74 has been close to my heart since that morning when the sun came up and I looked down from the Kearsarge flight deck at what I used to know as a proud American Navy destroyer. It's time to right a major wrong and get the names of the 74 on The Wall before any more of their families and the survivors and their families aren't with us anymore to witness it. We owe it to them.” Rep. Schiff has continued to keep close contact with the USS Frank E. Evans Association and has once again sought to right this injustice. This summer, Schiff met personally with Hagel (the third Secretary of Defense he has personally lobbied on the issue) to make the case that the names of the Lost 74 sailors of the USS Frank E. Evans deserve to be added to the memorial. The amendment passed by the House can be found here, and the pertinent report language included in the NDAA is below: We recommend that the names of the 74 military personnel lost aboard the USS Frank E. Evans on June 3, 1969, be added to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial if adequate funds are available to pay for adding the names and there is sufficient space available on the Memorial to accommodate the additional names. ###
12.01.14	12.01.14 Rep. Schiff Heralds President Obama Decision to Fund Body Cameras Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor who recently urged the Department of Justice to help fund local police departments’ purchase of small body-worn cameras in order to increase transparency, decrease tensions between police and community members, and create a record of events, released the following statement after President Obama announced the Administration would provide $75 million in funding for this program: "The President’s announcement that he will seek $75 million in new funding to expand the use of body worn cameras for police officers is a welcome and important step towards making the use of body cameras standard practice in police departments across the country, and I'm looking forward to working to accomplish our shared goal of fully funding this initiative. The broader use of body cameras is a commonsense step which would help build trust and accountability where police-community relations are frayed, and potentially avert deadly confrontations like the one in which Michael Brown lost his life. We know that body cameras for police officers work, and it’s time to make them a reality.” Background: Schiff, along with other Members of Congress, recently sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder urging the Department of Justice to help fund local police departments’ purchase of small body-worn cameras. From the letter: “Police departments around the country have begun adopting small body-worn cameras for police officers on patrol. These cameras provide a visual and audio record of interactions with the public, so that in the event of a confrontation or police-involved shooting, such as the one that occurred in Ferguson, there is an inalterable record of the events. There are also indications that the presence of body cameras has a civilizing effect on both police officers and the public, resulting in lower incidences of excessive force complaints and deescalating tense situations before they become violent. "Perhaps most importantly, cameras can instill greater trust in police departments on the part of the public they are sworn to protect. In communities with frayed police-community relations, cameras demonstrate a commitment on the part of the local police department to transparency and accountability, while protecting officers from false or frivolous complaints. For all these reasons, the adoption of body cameras has been well received in the jurisdictions that have begun to use them, both by the public and the officers wearing the cameras.”
11.25.14	11.25.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Extension of Negotiations with Iran Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement: "Yesterday's announcement that no agreement had been reached between the P5+1 and Iran on a permanent deal to dismantle Iran's nuclear program came as little surprise, but the failure to arrive at even a framework for a final agreement casts serious doubt on whether Iran is ready to make the kind of concessions necessary to end its international isolation and join the community of nations. On two of the most significant issues, the need to eliminate or dramatically reduce Iran's enrichment capability and the pace of sanctions relief, little or no advance appears to have been made. Secretary Kerry has stated that important progress has been achieved, but in light of the impasse on these two issues, it is unclear what step forward has been made that suggests a final agreement is attainable. Regrettably, it appears that whatever Mr. Rouhani's intentions, the Ayatollah Khamenei's objective is to obtain the maximum relief of the sanctions possible while giving up as little of Iran's nuclear program as possible -- and it is Khamenei who calls the shots. "The new interim agreement preserves the status quo with one very important asymmetry -- Iran gets an additional 700 million in sanctions relief each month while apparently making no new concession on its nuclear program. When the last extension was agreed to, both sides were required to pay a price in order to buy time: the P5+1 gave a new increment of sanctions relief and Iran was required to further blend down its stockpile. That should have been model for any further extension but this appears not to be the case. And while the currently falling price of oil may easily erase and more the 700 million a month in relief Iran gets from the extension, such an external mitigating factor is no substitute for a properly balanced agreement. "In the days to come, I will look forward to hearing from Secretary Kerry and the Administration what progress they believe has been made in the negotiations that warrant the extension of time and why they believe a framework agreement is achievable in the next four months. Secretary Kerry has said that it would be unwise to walk away from the interim agreement now, since the breakout time has been expanded. This may be true, but it could equally be said seven months from now if no deal is reached then, and at a certain point we may have to acknowledge that Iran is simply unwilling to negotiate away its nuclear program. If that point is now, or seven months from now, it will be critically important for the imposition and cohesion of new sanctions that the other nations in the P5+1 know that the United States made every effort to succeed in a negotiated resolution."
11.14.14	11.14.14 Metrolink Releases Health Risk Assessment of Taylor Yards Emissions Affecting Elysian Valley and Cypress Park Residents Los Angeles, CA – Today, Metrolink released their long-awaited report on a health risk assessment of their Taylor Yards facility in the Elysian Valley. For years, residents have expressed concern about the impact of Metrolink trains on their health, given that the trains idle for long periods of time in the yard emitting Diesel Particulate Matter (DPM). According to the EPA, DPM, even in small exposures, can cause eye, nose, throat and lung irritation, as well as cause nausea and exacerbate asthma. Long-term exposure to DPM can result in lung inflammation and based upon human and laboratory studies there is considerable evidence that diesel exhaust is a likely carcinogen. The study can be found here. "The Health Risk Assessment undertaken by Metrolink is an important step in making sure our neighborhoods are safe, and our kids can enjoy clean air," said Rep. Adam Schiff, who urged Metrolink to undertake the assessment. "Elysian Valley and Cypress Park residents have the right to know that everything possible is being done to ensure that rail operations are not negatively impacting their families. It is clear from the HRA that important progress has been made, but much more remains to be done. I will be working with the community to accelerate the timetable for further improvements in air quality -- from the adoption of new trains and technologies to better processes at the yard. “While the HRA provides valuable information on the reduction of particulate matter, the community still has many questions about the effects of rail operations on a variety of other health outcomes ranging from asthma to pulmonary disease. As we grow our public transportation networks we must do so responsibly. We cannot allow some neighborhoods to bear the burden while others benefit, and I remain committed to working with the community to secure the resources needed to take advantage of cutting edge technology to reduce the carbon footprint further, and give our communities the safe and clean air they deserve.” Last year, Rep. Schiff and the communities of Elysian Valley and Cypress Park called on Metrolink to undertake a health risk assessment, and since then have been working with Metrolink to ensure that the study had a proper scope, timeline, and leadership running it. Residents for years had expressed concern about the impact of DPM on their community and children. The residents have worked with Metrolink to take a number of steps to cut down on the idling, reduce pollution, and minimize noise disruptions. One such step allows Metrolink to clean the trains and conduct some other maintenance activities without idling. Metrolink has also committed to charge more trains through electrical outlets, alleviating the need to run secondary train engines to electrify cars for cleaning and maintenance.
11.07.14	11.07.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Decision to Delay ISIS Authorization Vote Until 2015 Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and author of legislation providing a limited and narrow authorization for use of military force against ISIL, released the following statement following the bipartisan lunch at the White House in which it was reported that Speaker Boehner said that Congress should not vote on authorization during the lame duck session, and instead wait until the new Congressional session in 2015: "Congress should never have recessed prior to the elections while a new war was getting underway, and it must not compound this abdication of its Constitutional duty by failing to take up a war authorization during the lame duck session. I'm deeply disappointed that the Speaker appears determined to defer any real debate over the war until next year. The current military action was initiated weeks ago and during the 113th Congress, it should be approved or disapproved during the same Congress. Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution, which vests Congress alone with the power to declare war, contains no asterisk or qualification relieving us of our duty before a midterm or when otherwise inconvenient." Earlier this week, Schiff sent a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner calling on him to schedule a debate and vote on a new war authorization against ISIS during the lame duck session after the midterm election. In the letter, Schiff wrote: “no president has the power to commit the nation’s sons and daughters to war without authorization from Congress. This is not a decision that can or should wait until 2015; this action was begun during the sitting of the 113th Congress and it is well within our ability to authorize it properly before adjourning.”
11.05.14	11.05.14 Rep. Schiff Calls for Debate and Vote on ISIS War Authorization During Lame Duck in Letter to Speaker Boehner Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and author of legislation providing a limited and narrow authorization for use of military force against ISIL, sent a letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner calling on him to schedule a debate and vote on a new war authorization against ISIS during the lame duck session after the midterm election. During his press conference today, President Obama called for Congress to approve a new authorization for use of military force against ISIS. The letter is below: Dear Speaker Boehner: As you prepare for the session that will close out the 113th Congress, I urge you to schedule time for consideration of an authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) against ISIL. As you know, American forces have been engaged in combat against ISIL since early August with operations currently underway against targets in both Iraq and Syria. President Obama has made repeated reports, as required by the War Powers Resolution, detailing these operations. Now, after three months of presidentially-directed airstrikes and other activities undertaken to “disrupt, dismantle and defeat” ISIL, Congress must meet the obligations of Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution by deciding whether to grant the president the power to conduct this new war in the Middle East. The use of the 2001 AUMF as legal justification for current the military action requires an extraordinarily broad and problematic reading of that measure. While ISIL may share al Qaeda’s hatred for the United States and the West, the group did not exist in 2001 and had no role in the 9/11 attacks. Nor is ISIL affiliated with or aiding al Qaeda, having been expressly repudiated by the Zawahiri leadership, and, despite reports of talks between the two groups, little evidence of an alliance between them. Vehement opposition to Bashar al Assad’s brutal government in Syria and the harshly sectarian policies of Nouri al Maliki in Iraq, not 9/11 or allegiance to Osama bin Laden, has fueled the rise of ISIL and allowed it to capture a huge swathe of territory in those two countries. From this redoubt, ISIL threatens tens of millions and the group’s extreme violence and barbarity, including the recent mass murder of a Sunni tribe in Iraq’s Anbar province, cannot be underestimated. I believe that the threat to core American foreign policy interests and our national security from ISIL is sufficient to warrant military force as an element of a multifaceted campaign. But, I also believe that no President has the power to commit the nation’s sons and daughters to war without authorization from Congress. This is not a decision that can or should wait until 2015; this action was begun during the sitting of the 113th Congress and it well within our ability to authorize it properly before adjourning sine die. In September I introduced a draft Joint Resolution (HJ Res 125) that provides for an 18 month authorization for continued airstrikes and limited special operations activities in Iraq and Syria and against ISIL. While I believe that my proposal merits consideration, whether it, or some other form of authorization, is ultimately taken up, the most important thing is for us to do our duty to American people and the Constitution. I look forward to working with you on this most important issue.
10.28.14	10.28.14 Schiff, Feinstein and Boxer Urge White House to Fully Fund Earthquake Early Warning System Burbank, CA – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), along with Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), urged President Obama and the White House’s Office of Management and Budget, to provide the highest possible funding level for earthquake hazards programs in their 2015 budget request – most specifically, additional funding for an earthquake early warning system being developed by scientists in Southern California and along the West Coast. Over the past several years, some in Congress and the Administration have targeted the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program for budget cuts — including the early warning system. For prototypes like the U.S. Geological Survey’s “Shake Alert,” which was partially designed by the USGS in Pasadena, budget constraints have slowed its implementation. Such an early warning system would be enormously helpful in providing residents and first responders with advance notice that could help avert major infrastructure damage by shutting down mechanical systems like mass transit and elevators, as well as reducing injuries and saving lives in the event of a major earthquake. In the letter, the Senators and Members write: “After the recent magnitude 6.0 earthquake in Napa, California that killed one person, injured more than 300 people, and caused an estimated $300 million in damages, as well as the September magnitude 4.0 earthquake that struck the Puget Sound region, we are once again reminded of how important it is that the United States has a robust earthquake early warning system.” Earlier this year, Senator Feinstein and Rep. Schiff were able to secure $5 million, for the first time, in initial funding toward further development of the system. As they stated in an Los Angeles Daily News op-ed, “in the current political climate, funding is never guaranteed, and we will redouble our efforts to secure funds before the end of this session of Congress.” The House and Senate are expected to take up appropriations measures during the lame duck session in November and December. “Every few months, we are reminded about the West Coast’s vulnerability with tremors and small earthquakes rattling our homes and businesses. It’s absolutely critical that the U.S. maintains its vigilance and expertise in earthquake preparedness – and this funding would help us on that road. I’m very hopeful that when the House and Senate meet to work out the appropriations issues, we will be able to secure final funding for this vital program,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “When we consider the lives that would be spared if we have just a little bit of warning before the next big one, it’s a very small but prudent investment.” Schiff, Feinstein and Boxer were joined by Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), as well as thirty Members including Representatives Xavier Becerra, Suzanne Bonamici, Julia Brownley, Tony Cardenas, Judy Chu, Jim Costa, Peter DeFazio, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, Janice Hahn, Mike Honda, Jared Huffman, Barbara Lee, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Betty McCollum, Jim McDermott, Jerry McNerney, George Miller, Grace Napolitano, Scott Peters, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Linda Sanchez, Brad Sherman, Adam Smith, Jackie Speier, Eric Swalwell, Mike Thompson, Maxine Waters, and Henry Waxman. The full letter is below: Dear President Obama: As you prepare your Fiscal Year 2016 Budget for the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), we strongly urge you to request increased funding for USGS’s earthquake-related programs, including an additional $16.1 million for the development and operation of a West Coast Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) System. After the recent magnitude 6.0 earthquake in Napa, California that killed one person, injured more than 300 people, and caused an estimated $300 million in damages, as well as the September magnitude 4.0 earthquake that struck the Puget Sound region, we are once again reminded of how important it is that the United States has a robust earthquake early warning system. Earthquake Early Warning is proven technology that is already fully operational in countries like Japan and Mexico. USGS, in conjunction with the California Institute of Technology, the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Washington, and the University of Oregon, is currently working to adapt the technology for the West Coast of the United States and has developed a prototype system for test users along the West Coast. During the earthquake in Napa County, test users at UC Berkeley received ten seconds of warning, and those in San Francisco and San Jose received even more. This is enough warning to take steps necessary to prevent casualties and mitigate destruction, including slowing or stopping trains and cars; turning off supplies of oil, natural gas, and chemicals; securing large manufacturing equipment; stopping elevators and opening their doors; and securing sensitive computer data. The effectiveness of EEW largely depends on the number and placement of sensors to ensure that there is adequate coverage wherever an earthquake may hit—and this requires additional resources. Congress recognizes the value of this system and has demonstrated its commitment to providing additional resources for EEW by including additional funding in the House and Senate Fiscal Year 2015 Interior Appropriations bills. Therefore, we urge you to request in your Budget at least an additional $16.1 million for the development of this system so that the West Coast will be prepared for the next catastrophic earthquake. This is proven technology that will save lives and reduce the economic impact of an earthquake; it simply needs to be properly funded. Thank you for considering our request.
10.15.14	10.15.14 Rep. Schiff Announces White House Will Display Armenian Orphan Rug in November Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the White House will be displaying the Armenian Orphan Rug, also known as the Ghazir Rug, as part of an exhibit at the White House Visitors Center. The exhibit – entitled “Thank you to the United States: Three Gifts to Presidents in Gratitude for American Generosity Abroad” – will showcase the Ghazir rug, as well as the Sèvres vase, given to President Herbert Hoover in appreciation for feeding children in post-World War I France, and the Flowering Branches in Lucite, given to President Barack Obama in recognition of American support of the people of Japan after the devastating earthquake and tsunami in 2010. These three gifts to American presidents will be on display so visitors to the White House and those wishing to see the artifacts can view them. The Armenian Orphan Rug was woven by orphans of the Armenian Genocide in 1920, and presented to President Calvin Coolidge in 1925 as a symbol of gratitude for American aid and generosity for U.S. assistance during the genocide. The rug, which measures 11'7" x 18'5”, has over 4,000,000 hand-tied knots and took the Armenian girls in the Ghazir Orphanage of the Near East Relief Society 10 months to weave. President Coolidge noted that, "The rug has a place of honor in the White House where it will be a daily symbol of goodwill on earth.” The rug – which has been in storage at the White House for decades – will be displayed from November 18 – 23 in the White House Visitors Center. Schiff and the Armenian community have worked with the White House to find a way for the Ghazir rug to be sensitively and appropriately displayed. “The Armenian Orphan Rug embodies the resilience of the Armenian people through their darkest days and serves as a poignant reminder of 1.5 million Armenians who were murdered in the first genocide of the 20th Century. It also reminds Americans that our government was a central player in efforts to call attention to the plight of the Armenian people and provide relief to survivors,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “Since first raising this issue with the White House, we have worked to find a dignified way to display the Rug so that Americans can come to see this important artifact, and learn about an important chapter of the shared history of the Armenian and American peoples. I want to thank the White House for working with us, and look forward to seeing the rug displayed at the White House Visitors Center.” Rep. Adam Schiff and Rep. David Valadao (R-CA) sent a letter along with 31 other Members to President Obama last year urging the Administration to allow exhibition of the rug. The full letter is below, and can be found here, and in the letter they stated: “The Armenian Orphan Rug is a piece of American history and it belongs to the American people. For over a decade, Armenian American organizations have sought the public display of the rug and have requested the White House and the State Department grant their request on numerous occasions. Unfortunately, Armenian Americans have yet to have their requests granted. We urge you to release this American treasure for exhibition.” Since sending the letter, Schiff has continued to urge the White House to find a way for the rug to be displayed.
09.23.14	09.23.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on U.S. Military Strikes Against ISIL and Khorasan Group in Syria Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement after the President ordered strikes against ISIL and the Khorasan group in Syria last night: “Last night's airstrikes against ISIL targets in Syria represent a significant expansion of the Administration's efforts to degrade and ultimately defeat this new terrorist ‘state.’ The participation of Arab forces is especially important, not only to put an Arab face on the American led coalition, but also to cement their involvement in the long-term effort required to defeat ISIL. “The attack on the Khorasan group was also significant. On the Intelligence Committee we have long been aware of, and concerned with, the threat posed by this amalgam of core Al Qaeda from Afghanistan and Pakistan, the premier bomb-makers of AQAP, and abundant foreign recruits who can easily travel abroad to carry out attacks against Europe and United States. The Khorasan group and AQAP continue to be the most proximate threat to our nation. “This significant escalation of the military effort makes it all the more imperative for Congress to take up a new authorization to use force. The rationale given by the Administration, that its actions against ISIL can be justified by an authorization passed by Congress in the days after 9/11, is increasingly untenable, and Congress must not abdicate its responsibility. Congress should never have recessed with a war underway – we should take up this issue the moment we return to session.”
09.22.14	09.22.14 Rep. Schiff Hails FAA Decision to Institute a Comprehensive Complaint System for Helicopter Noise Across Los Angeles County Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) applauded the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) announcement that they would take an important role in helping to stem disruptive helicopter noise plaguing residents across Los Angeles County. The FAA indicated over the weekend that they would establish a comprehensive complaint system for helicopter noise operations – the first step necessary to gather data about the extent of the problem and remedies, identify problem helicopter operators, and give residents a systematic way to register their complaints. According to the FAA, the agency will allocate $250,000 to set up the system and acquire a years’ worth of correlated noise complaint data for helicopters – and allow residents the real time capability to file complaints online or by phone and identify those helicopters responsible. The FAA will bid the project this year, with implementation slated for early next year. Earlier this year, Schiff and other Los Angeles area lawmakers, including Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), sent a letter asking for a timeline on the FAA’s Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative. The agency finally responded to the Los Angeles lawmakers (letter can be found here), on the heels of legislation that Feinstein and Schiff passed requiring the FAA to act within the year to reduce helicopter noise through voluntary measures, or be forced to put in place regulations to reduce it. Pressure from homeowners and lawmakers finally compelled the FAA to act. The Los Angeles Daily News reported that Glen Martin, the regional administrator for the FAA’s Western-Pacific region, said via email, “The FAA has approved funding and is moving forward to establish a noise complaint system for L.A. County regarding helicopter operations. We plan to take approximately three months to complete the contracting, and intend for the system to be up and running shortly after the first of the year.” “While we are still waiting for final details — would this merely monitor noise levels or identify the helicopters causing the problem — the establishment of a countywide helicopter noise complaint system could be a significant development in our years-long fight to give L.A. residents the relief that they deserve,” said Rep. Schiff. “This move comes on the heels of legislation Senator Feinstein and I authored requiring the FAA to adopt new rules and regulations if they could not achieve meaningful relief through voluntary measures. Collecting this data may give us a benchmark to work from and identify those who lack regard for residents on the ground — and I’m looking forward to working with the operators, homeowners and the FAA to make sure that we meet the urgent need for noise relief.” Bob Anderson, the president of the Los Angeles Area Helicopter Noise Coalition – comprising residents from across Los Angeles County who have been working with helicopter pilots and the FAA to reduce helicopter noise without compromising safety – stated that the LAAHNC has stressed the need for a countywide noise complaint system and is very excited that the FAA has stepped up to this challenge. “The request we most often hear from residents impacted by helicopter noise it ‘where can I complain?.’ The answer, sadly, was nowhere,” said Anderson. “This system will now give all residents countywide a place to lodge helicopter noise complaints and will provide irrefutable data identifying helicopter noise hot spots, so our organization can work with pilots and the FAA to stop the noise. This system is the first step among many that we are working toward, including a Tri-Party Agreement between the LAAHNC, pilot organizations, and FAA on voluntary noise-reduction practices.” In 2013, Schiff and other members of the Los Angeles delegation introduced legislation, the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act, and encouraged the FAA to act independently of legislation to reduce helicopter noise in Los Angeles. Following a lengthy study, the FAA released their report on the Los Angeles airspace, urging voluntary measures over a regulatory approach, which many homeowners and lawmakers felt was an insufficient response. Senator Feinstein and Rep. Schiff successfully included language in the omnibus spending bill, which was signed into law, that would require the FAA to develop regulations related to the impact of helicopter use on the quality of life of LA County residents within one year unless the FAA can demonstrate the effectiveness of the six voluntary action items in the helicopter noise report. Efforts to include language in the omnibus were supported by the LAHNC.
09.19.14	09.19.14 Rep. Schiff and 29 Members Urge Department of Justice to Fund Body-Worn Cameras for Local Police Departments Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and 29 Members sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder urging the Department of Justice to help fund local police departments’ purchase of small body-worn cameras in order to increase transparency, decrease tensions between police and community members, and create a record of events. Schiff, who is a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee and former Assistant U.S. Attorney, stated: “As the investigation into the death of Michael Brown illustrates, the circumstances of an officer-involved shooting can arouse the strongest passions in a community and breed an atmosphere of profound distrust. Having a video record of events not only deters the use of excessive force, but it also helps dispute or demonstrate claims of police brutality – in either case it improves community confidence in a just result. Studies done in localities that have implemented body-worn cameras have shown a positive impact by demonstrating a commitment to transparency and accountability and helping to deescalate potentially tense interactions. "Given the Department of Justice’s crucial role in helping state and local law enforcement adopt best practices, I believe it’s time to expand our support to include assistance to law enforcement agencies that would like to adopt body-worn camera technology for their police officers. The Department of Justice can use existing funding streams, or work with Congress to create a new pool of resources for local governments to help implement body-worn cameras for police officers throughout the country.” From the letter: “Police departments around the country have begun adopting small body-worn cameras for police officers on patrol. These cameras provide a visual and audio record of interactions with the public, so that in the event of a confrontation or police-involved shooting, such as the one that occurred in Ferguson, there is an inalterable record of the events. There are also indications that the presence of body cameras has a civilizing effect on both police officers and the public, resulting in lower incidences of excessive force complaints and deescalating tense situations before they become violent. Perhaps most importantly, cameras can instill greater trust in police departments on the part of the public they are sworn to protect. In communities with frayed police-community relations, cameras demonstrate a commitment on the part of the local police department to transparency and accountability, while protecting officers from false or frivolous complaints. For all these reasons, the adoption of body cameras has been well received in the jurisdictions that have begun to use them, both by the public and the officers wearing the cameras.” Schiff was joined by 29 Members, including Rep. Bass, Rep. Cardenas, Rep. Lacy Clay, Rep. Cohen, Rep. Deutch, Rep. DeFazio, Rep. Duckworth, Rep. Edwards, Rep. Green, Rep. Gutierrez, Rep. Lujan Grisham, Rep. Honda, Rep. Huffman, Rep. Bernice Johnson, Rep. Kelly, Rep. Jackson Lee, Rep. Lowenthal, Rep. Negrete McLeod, Rep. McNerney, Rep. McCollum, Rep. Moore, Rep. Pallone, Rep. Pocan, Rep. Schakowsky, Rep. Slaughter, Rep. Speier, Rep. Tonko, Rep. Van Hollen, and Rep. Waxman. The full letter is below: Dear Attorney General Holder: We urge you to make available federal assistance for state and local law enforcement agencies to purchase body-worn cameras for police officers. The evidence from early adopters is highly promising, and body-worn cameras have garnered support from police chiefs, rank and file officers, community organizations, and civil rights advocates. We believe that a dedicated federal grant program would be a worthy addition to the support the Department of Justice has historically provided to state and local law enforcement agencies. We appreciate the crucial role of the Department of Justice (DOJ) in supporting and guiding the activities of local law enforcement. In Ferguson, Missouri, following the shooting of Michael Brown, the Community Relations Service and the Office of Community Oriented Policing have provided invaluable guidance to state and local authorities, as they do for communities around the country. We believe the federal government has an important role to play in supporting state and local agencies in improving police-community relations. Police departments around the country have begun adopting small body-worn cameras for police officers on patrol. These cameras provide a visual and audio record of interactions with the public, so that in the event of a confrontation or police-involved shooting, such as the one that occurred in Ferguson, there is an inalterable record of the events. There are also indications that the presence of body cameras has a civilizing effect on both police officers and the public, resulting in lower incidences of excessive force complaints and deescalating tense situations before they become violent. Perhaps most importantly, cameras can instill greater trust in police departments on the part of the public they are sworn to protect. In communities with frayed police-community relations, cameras demonstrate a commitment on the part of the local police department to transparency and accountability, while protecting officers from false or frivolous complaints. For all these reasons, the adoption of body cameras has been well received in the jurisdictions that have begun to use them, both by the public and the officers wearing the cameras. Though more study is needed, early returns on the benefits of cameras show real promise in improving police interactions with the public. A study conducted by the Rialto, California police department from 2012 to 2013 showed the potential of cameras. With half of the police department wearing cameras recording each interaction with the public, the department experienced an 88 percent reduction in complaints against officers. Additionally, the study found that shifts without cameras experienced twice as many use of force incidents as shifts using the cameras. Other studies conducted in Mesa, Arizona and in the United Kingdom have also yielded promising results. A major barrier to adoption of cameras for many departments is budgetary concerns, both for the purchase of the cameras as well as the technical infrastructure needed to maintain them and store recorded footage. A variety of Department of Justice programs provide equipment and financial support to local law enforcement agencies. We believe it would be appropriate to set aside a portion of federal assistance to state and local law enforcement to support state and local law enforcement agencies that choose to adopt body cameras for their officers. In doing so, the Department could also support rigorous study on the effects of camera adoption by police agencies as well help to develop and disseminate best practices for their use. These recommendations are in line with those suggested by a 2014 report by the Office of Justice Programs Diagnostic Center which recommended additional research into the effects of police worn body cameras. We urge you to explore the extent to which existing federal funding streams for local law enforcement can be used to acquire body cameras and to consider dedicating funding for this purpose. Should the Department require additional authorization or Congressional support, we are prepared to work with you through the upcoming budgetary and appropriations process to ensure proper support for such a proposal. We ask that you provide a response regarding the Department’s views on the adoption of body cameras by police officers, as well as an update on any plans to support their greater deployment nationwide. Thank you for your service and leadership on this and other important law enforcement issues. Sincerely,
09.17.14	09.17.14 Rep. Adam Schiff Votes For The Plan to Arm the Moderate Syrian Opposition Forces Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee and author of legislation providing a limited and narrow authorization for use of military force against ISIL, voted for the President’s funding request to train and equip the moderate Syrian opposition forces. He spoke earlier on the House Floor about the decision to support the resolution, and released this statement after the vote: “This afternoon I cast my vote to approve the President's funding request to support the training and equipping of moderate Syrian opposition forces. I did so after long consideration, and mindful of the difficulties of vetting such a force during the middle of a brutal civil war. “Any decision to supply arms to combatants must be weighed carefully; indeed, for the last several years I have opposed arming the Syrian rebels out of a concern for our ability to properly vet such troops and the fear that weapons we provide may end up in the wrong hands. Those concerns persist, but they have been overcome by the growing menace of ISIL and the willingness of our regional allies to play a greater -- and open -- role in the support of these forces. “ISIL now controls about a third of Iraq and a like portion of Syria. It has been unsurpassed in its brutality, committing mass executions, forced conversions, trafficking in women and beheading its hostages -- including Americans James Foley and Steven Sotlof. If ISIL is allowed to consolidate its territorial gains, or expand them, it will be able to act on its stated intention of serving as the platform for attacks on the United States. The thousands of foreign fighters, including Americans, who have flocked to join its ranks will one day attempt to return to the west and attack us on the homeland. The longer ISIL can draw new recruits, the longer the United States will have to confront the threat that these fighters will return home, many with visa-free travel to our shores. “Our response must be proportionate to the threat. It does not justify American occupation of Iraq or Syria, or the introduction of American ground forces -- all of which are likely to be counterproductive. It does justify the use of American air power, intelligence, financial, diplomatic and military support. And since air power alone will not be sufficient on the battlefield, it will necessitate the assistance of local ground forces. In the case of Iraq, those ground forces will be provided by the Iraqi military and Kurdish Peshmerga. In Syria, with rigorous vetting, training and support, the rebel opposition may provide the raw material for a credible military force. There is no guarantee that the Syrian opposition can form a cohesive fighting force, something that has thus far eluded them, but the open support of Gulf nations in housing and funding this opposition holds the promise of consolidating regional support behind them. “The threat posed by ISIL is an outgrowth of the disastrously sectarian policies of the Nouri al-Maliki regime in Baghdad and the ruthless dictatorship of the Bashar al-Asad in Damascus. Our military efforts and those of our allies alone cannot succeed without addressing the political fractures created by both. I applaud the Administration for its role in urging the Iraqis to form a new and more inclusive government and look forward to the day when a representative government can take shape in neighboring Syria and this carnage can come to an end.”
09.15.14	09.15.14 Rep. Schiff Introduces Authorization for Use of Military Force Against ISIL, Sunsetting After 18 Months Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, introduced an authorization for use of military force against ISIL, meeting Congress' constitutional imperative in declaring war. First, the authorization would give temporary, tailored authority for the combat ongoing against ISIL in Iraq, and for strikes against ISIL targets in Syria. And second, the measure would harmonize the legal authorities under which the President is authorized to take offensive action by sunsetting the 2002 Iraq AUMF immediately and then sunsetting both the new authorities and the 2001 AUMF eighteen months after the enactment of the joint resolution. Third, the resolution does not authorize the use of ground combat forces in Iraq or Syria. "ISIL represents a serious danger to the United States – its savage, well-armed legions have taken over a large swath of northern Syria and Iraq, and its hundreds of foreign fighters pose a long-term threat to us and to our allies,” said Rep. Schiff. “The President has announced an offensive against ISIL that amounts to war, but Congress alone has the authority to do so within the Constitution. Congress need not wait for to be asked to approve such an authorization; it is our Constitutional obligation to approve or reject the use of force, and we must not adjourn without a vote. "Accordingly, and in keeping with Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution, I am introducing a joint resolution authorizing the use of force against ISIL, while repealing the outdated 2002 AUMF and sunsetting the 2001 AUMF which badly needs updating 13 years after its passage. I urge swift Congressional action so that the President and our Armed Forces may know that the Congress stands behind them – and that we, too, have done our duty." The draft text of Rep. Schiff’s authorization for use of military force is below: To authorize the use of United States Armed Forces against the terrorist organization Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (“ISIL”). Whereas for months Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (“ISIL”) has been engaged in an almost unchecked campaign of murder and mayhem across a broad swath of Iraq and Syria that has killed thousands of innocent people and terrorized millions; Whereas ISIL has brought under its control large areas of Iraq and Syria and announced on June 29, 2014, the establishment of a new caliphate; Whereas in its conduct of military operations, its treatment of personnel captured on the battlefield, and its behavior towards civilians in areas under its control, ISIL has shown a level of brutality and depravity that shocks the conscience; Whereas ISIL brutally murdered two American journalists and a British aid worker and has threatened the lives of other western hostages; Whereas the threat posed by the recruitment of ISIL fighters in the United States and Europe and the prospect of these fighters returning to the United States or allied countries jeopardizes the security of the United States and its allies; Whereas ISIL poses an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States and if left unchecked will be the locus of plots to attack our homeland; Whereas the rise of ISIL, the continuing threat posed by al Qaeda, and the pending redeployment of United States combat troops from Afghanistan highlight the need to re-examine and harmonize the legal authorities under which the President is authorized to take offensive military action; and Whereas the President has authority under the Constitution to take action to protect the United States and its citizens from imminent threat or attack but Congress alone holds the power to declare war: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. Short title. This joint resolution may be cited as the “Authorization for Use of Military Force Against ISIL Resolution”. SEC. 2. Authorization for use of United States Armed Forces. (a) In general.—The President is authorized to use the Armed Forces of the United States against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (“ISIL”). (b) Geographical limitation.—The authority granted in subsection (a) shall be confined to the territory of the Republic of Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic. The limitation of this subsection shall not apply to the Armed Forces of the United States engaged in training of indigenous Syrian or regional military forces for the purpose of combating ISIL. (c) No authorization for use of ground forces in combat.—The authority granted in subsection (a) does not include the authority for the deployment of ground forces in a combat role. For purposes of this subsection, “ground forces in a combat role” does not include special operations forces or other forces that may be deployed in a training, advisory, or intelligence capacity. (d) Termination.—The authority granted in subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 18 months after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution. (e) War powers resolution requirements.— (1) SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.—Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress declares that this section is intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution. (2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS.—Nothing in this joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers Resolution. SEC. 3. Repeal of prior authorizations for use of United States Armed Forces. (a) Repeal.—The following provisions of law are hereby repealed: (1) The Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002 (Public Law 107–243; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note). (2) The Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107–40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note). (b) Effective date.—The repeal made by subsection (a)(2) shall be effective as of the date that is 18 months after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, SEC. 4. Reports to Congress. (a) In general.—The President shall, at least once every 60 days after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution, submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate a report on matters relevant to this joint resolution, including actions taken pursuant to the exercise of authority granted in section 2 and the status of planning for efforts that are expected to be required over the next 60 days. (b) Consolidation.—To the extent that the submission of any report required in subsection (a) coincides with the submissions of any other report on matters relevant to this joint resolution otherwise required to be submitted to Congress pursuant to the reporting requirements of the War Powers Resolution, all such reports may be submitted as a single consolidated report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate.
09.11.14	09.11.14 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on President's Address Tonight on ISIS and Syria Washington, DC –Tonight, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after the President addressed the nation about his strategy to degrade and destroy ISIS in Iraq and Syria: “President Obama made a solid case for American action, in concert with our allies and regional partners, to degrade and destroy ISIL. He set out the threat that ISIL poses to the United States, what it will take to meet that threat and the outline of our strategy going forward. In the wake of the brutal murder of two Americans and slaughter of countless others, ISIL represents a force unparalleled in its barbarity. "I view the President's speech as a good opening statement, rather than the closing argument, in the case for American military action and expect to hear more from Administration officials in the days and weeks to come on how this effort can be successful. “The President was right to rule out the deployment of American ground forces to fight ISIL, and to make it clear to the nation that this will not become another massive military occupation as in Afghanistan or previously in Iraq. I was also encouraged by one thing the President did not announce tonight – and that is the initiation of a massive air campaign in Syria. I’ve been supportive of limited airstrikes in Iraq to degrade ISIL because these were undertaken in concert with Iraqi and Kurdish forces operating on the ground there. We do not have similar ground forces, intelligence assets or in-country allies in Syria, and we should be wary of rushing into Syria with a broad campaign of airstrikes that would lack the same effectiveness while exposing our pilots to considerable risk. While the President is right to let the American people know ISIL will be granted no safe haven, he is also right not to go rushing into the terrible abyss that Syria has become. "The President said he would welcome Congressional approval of his plans, but I would go further – a vote in Congress is a constitutional prerequisite to the kind of sustained military campaign the President laid out, and which may well outlive this Presidency."
09.09.14	09.09.14 Rep. Schiff – President Should Seek Authorization for Any Continued Use of Force in Iraq or Syria from Congress Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and author of legislation to sunset the post-9/11 authorization for use of military force, released the following statement: “The threat posed ISIS is very real and must be confronted. The President was right to act in Iraq last month to protect American personnel, prevent a humanitarian crisis, and push back jihadists from continuing their campaign of mass slaughter. However, if the President intends to prolong the military campaign in Iraq or extend it into Syria, he needs to make the case directly to the American people and secure authorization from Congress. “All Americans are repulsed and enraged by the gruesome murders of two American journalists and the horrors committed by ISIS against the people of Iraq and Syria. As the President outlines his strategy to degrade and ultimately defeat ISIS – a plan he acknowledges will take years – Congress must carefully consider what it is being asked to approve regarding a military campaign that will extend from this Presidency to the next. “The Constitution gives Congress the responsibility to declare war, even while investing in the President the power to wage war once declared and to take limited other actions in defense of the country. Since the actions contemplated by the President go well beyond the immediate imperative of protecting Americans at risk, Congress is required to act.”
09.05.14	09.05.14 Rep. Adam Schiff Responds to New Benghazi Allegations Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and member of the Select Committee on Benghazi, released the following statement: "These so-called new allegations were examined in detail by both the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, which concluded that there was no 'stand down' order. Instead, we found that our personnel acted heroically and appropriately in trying to secure local assistance and avoid ambush. Nor did we find any evidence that a different course of action would have saved – rather than jeopardized – more lives. To second guess these decisions made in the fog of battle is both unfair to the brave personnel involved and highly irresponsible. "These old myths are resurfacing at a time when the Select Committee is preparing to hold its first hearing on how well the State Department is implementing the recommendations of the Accountability Review Board. I hope that the Committee won't divert its attention away from what could be a valuable part of the 'lessons learned' from Benghazi to relitigate baseless claims that have been debunked time and again, and in bipartisan fashion."
08.27.14	08.27.14 Rep. Schiff Urges Department of Justice to Fund Body-Worn Cameras for Local Police Departments Los Angeles, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he is circulating a letter to his colleagues which will be sent to Attorney General Eric Holder urging the Department of Justice to help fund local police departments’ purchase of small body-worn cameras in order to increase transparency, decrease tensions between police and community members, and create a record of events. Schiff, who is a member of the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee and former Assistant U.S. Attorney, stated: “As the investigation into the death of Michael Brown illustrates, the circumstances of an officer-involved shooting can arouse the strongest passions in a community and breed an atmosphere of profound distrust. Having a video record of events not only deters the use of excessive force, but it also helps dispute or demonstrate claims of police brutality – in either case it improves community confidence in a just result. Studies done in localities that have implemented body-worn cameras have shown a positive impact by demonstrating a commitment to transparency and accountability and helping to deescalate potentially tense interactions. "Given the Department of Justice’s crucial role in helping state and local law enforcement adopt best practices, I believe it’s time to expand our support to include assistance to law enforcement agencies that would like to adopt body-worn camera technology for their police officers. The Department of Justice can use existing funding streams, or work with Congress to create a new pool of resources for local governments to help implement body-worn cameras for police officers throughout the country.” From the letter: “Police departments around the country have begun adopting small body-worn cameras for police officers on patrol. These cameras provide a visual and audio record of interactions with the public, so that in the event of a confrontation or police-involved shooting, such as the one that occurred in Ferguson, there is an inalterable record of the events. There are also indications that the presence of body cameras has a civilizing effect on both police officers and the public, resulting in lower incidences of excessive force complaints and deescalating tense situations before they become violent. Perhaps most importantly, cameras can instill greater trust in police departments on the part of the public they are sworn to protect. In communities with frayed police-community relations, cameras demonstrate a commitment on the part of the local police department to transparency and accountability, while protecting officers from false or frivolous complaints. For all these reasons, the adoption of body cameras has been well received in the jurisdictions that have begun to use them, both by the public and the officers wearing the cameras.” The full letter is below: Dear Attorney General Holder: We urge you to make available federal assistance for state and local law enforcement agencies to purchase body-worn cameras for police officers. The evidence from early adopters is highly promising, and body-worn cameras have garnered support from police chiefs, rank and file officers, community organizations, and civil rights advocates. We believe that a dedicated federal grant program would be a worthy addition to the support the Department of Justice has historically provided to state and local law enforcement agencies. We appreciate the crucial role of the Department of Justice (DOJ) in supporting and guiding the activities of local law enforcement. In Ferguson, Missouri, following the shooting of Michael Brown, the Community Relations Service and the Office of Community Oriented Policing have provided invaluable guidance to state and local authorities, as they do for communities around the country. We believe the federal government has an important role to play in supporting state and local agencies in improving police-community relations. Police departments around the country have begun adopting small body-worn cameras for police officers on patrol. These cameras provide a visual and audio record of interactions with the public, so that in the event of a confrontation or police-involved shooting, such as the one that occurred in Ferguson, there is an inalterable record of the events. There are also indications that the presence of body cameras has a civilizing effect on both police officers and the public, resulting in lower incidences of excessive force complaints and deescalating tense situations before they become violent. Perhaps most importantly, cameras can instill greater trust in police departments on the part of the public they are sworn to protect. In communities with frayed police-community relations, cameras demonstrate a commitment on the part of the local police department to transparency and accountability, while protecting officers from false or frivolous complaints. For all these reasons, the adoption of body cameras has been well received in the jurisdictions that have begun to use them, both by the public and the officers wearing the cameras. Though more study is needed, early returns on the benefits of cameras show real promise in improving police interactions with the public. A study conducted by the Rialto, California police department from 2012 to 2013 showed the potential of cameras. With half of the police department wearing cameras recording each interaction with the public, the department experienced an 88 percent reduction in complaints against officers. Additionally, the study found that shifts without cameras experienced twice as many use of force incidents as shifts using the cameras. Other studies conducted in Mesa, Arizona and in the United Kingdom have also yielded promising results. A major barrier to adoption of cameras for many departments is budgetary concerns, both for the purchase of the cameras as well as the technical infrastructure needed to maintain them and store recorded footage. A variety of Department of Justice programs provide equipment and financial support to local law enforcement agencies. We believe it would be appropriate to set aside a portion of federal assistance to state and local law enforcement to support state and local law enforcement agencies that choose to adopt body cameras for their officers. In doing so, the Department could also support rigorous study on the effects of camera adoption by police agencies as well help to develop and disseminate best practices for their use. These recommendations are in line with those suggested by a 2014 report by the Office of Justice Programs Diagnostic Center which recommended additional research into the effects of police worn body cameras. We urge you to explore the extent to which existing federal funding streams for local law enforcement can be used to acquire body cameras and to consider dedicating funding for this purpose. Should the Department require additional authorization or Congressional support, we are prepared to work with you through the upcoming budgetary and appropriations process to ensure proper support for such a proposal. We ask that you provide a response regarding the Department’s views on the adoption of body cameras by police officers, as well as an update on any plans to support their greater deployment nationwide. Thank you for your service and leadership on this and other important law enforcement issues. Sincerely,
08.19.14	08.19.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Beheading of American Journalist, Latest Act of Barbarity by ISIL Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, released the following statement in the wake of the reported beheading of photojournalist James Wright Foley by ISIL: "The apparent beheading of photojournalist James Foley adds to the appalling parade of horrors perpetrated by ISIL. Seldom is the descriptor "evil" applied with perfect accuracy as it is with this monstrous group that glories in death. They know no human decency -- murdering journalists, beheading religious minorities refusing to convert, victimizing women and children, and starving entire communities. "My thoughts and prayers are with the friends and family of James Foley in this painful time. Journalists on the front lines are true heroes, and James' work like that of Daniel Pearl before him will inspire others to carry on in spite of the dangers."
08.08.14	08.08.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on President's Authorization of Limited Strikes Against ISIL in Iraq Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, issued the following statement:“I support the President's authorization of limited actions against ISIL to protect our personnel in Erbil, and the airdrop of humanitarian assistance to save thousands of Iraqi civilians who are stranded on a mountain top and face certain death if they are taken by ISIL. America cannot stand by while our people are threatened by an army of terrorists or a potential genocide unfolds.“ISIL can and will be stopped, but Iraqis must resolve their political differences in order to do so. We should step up support to our Kurdish allies. If Baghdad does not provide them with the military supplies they need to defend themselves, we should. Likewise, if the Iraqi government does not resume the financial support owed to the Kurds, we should end our resistance to the direct sale of Kurdish oil.”
07.31.14	07.31.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Intelligence Committee Vote to Send Benghazi Report for Declassification Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and Member of the Benghazi Select Committee, released the following statement after the Intelligence Committee voted to approve its investigative report on the Benghazi attack, which will now go through classification review for public release:“The Intelligence Committee report adds to the body of investigative work now completed by numerous committees in Congress, and reaches the same noncontroversial conclusions – that the initial talking points provided by the intelligence community were flawed because of conflicting assessments not an intention to deceive, that there was no stand down order, that the diplomatic facilities lacked adequate security, and that our personnel at the scene acted bravely and appropriately. “This bipartisan report should be declassified quickly, so that the American people may know what we have learned behind closed doors, and how it concurs with other analysis already made public."
07.29.14	07.29.14 Rep. Schiff Leads California Democratic Congressional Delegation in Calling on State Legislature to Reauthorize and Enhance California Film Tax Credit Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) led an effort by 28 members of the California Democratic Delegation urging the leaders of the California State Senate and Assembly, Senate President pro Tem Darrell Steinberg and Assembly Speaker Toni Atkins, to reauthorize and enhance the California film tax credit during the 2014 legislative session. California’s film tax credit will expire in 2015. Recently, the bodies’ own Office of the Legislative Analyst found that only 52 percent of film and television jobs are located in California, down from 65 percent just a decade ago. A bill to reauthorize and enhance the tax credit (AB 1839) has passed the Assembly in June and now awaits consideration by the Senate.While a bill has advanced in the Assembly and Senate, the amount by which the tax credit will be increased has yet to be determined. In a strongly-worded letter urging enactment of a bill to level the playing field with other states, the Members wrote: “A competitive film tax credit is a net win for our state, creating jobs, generating economic activity, and increasing tax revenues for the state and municipalities…. We fear a day, not too far off, when the film industry in California is hollowed out and it becomes easier to produce a movie or television show in New York or Louisiana than in California. As production moves out of our state, skilled human capital will relocate along with it, and our greatest competitive advantage, our talented workforce will move elsewhere. If that happens, it will be a tragedy for our state’s economy and our cultural history.”Schiff, who led the effort, stated:“This is a critical moment for California’s economy and our history as the epicenter of the film and television industries. Hundreds of thousands of jobs hang in the balance. If we fail to take decisive action to enhance the state film tax credit, we run the real risk that many well-paying jobs will be lost for good to states with far more generous credits. Only by extending and enhancing the film tax credit can we begin to bring back more of those jobs to the studios in Los Angeles and throughout California. I’m hopeful that the State leadership will step up and pass a bill that will bring jobs back to California.” “Our entertainment industry is absolutely critical to the strength of our middle class and our economic future, which is why I am focused on passing AB 1839 and improving the filming infrastructure here in Los Angeles,” said Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. “Runaway production is a serious issue for all Californians. Of the 54 big-budget feature films in 2012 and 2013, only one shot exclusively here in the State of California. And, in terms of Los Angeles, feature film production has dropped nearly 50% over the last 15 years. It’s a crisis, make no mistake, but it’s one we can solve, and this legislation will help level the playing field against the other states that are taking jobs away from working Californians.”Rep. Schiff was joined in sending the letter by 28 other Members from all across the state, including Judy Chu, Karen Bass, Julia Brownley, Tony Cárdenas, Lois Capps, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, John Garamendi, Janice Hahn, Mike Honda, Jared Huffman, Barbara Lee, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Doris Matsui, George Miller, Jerry McNerney, Grace Napolitano, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Linda Sanchez, Loretta Sanchez, Brad Sherman, Eric Swalwell, Mark Takano, Mike Thompson, Juan Vargas, Maxine Waters and Henry Waxman."In the past four years, California lost nearly $2 billion and many middle class jobs because of runaway film and television production to other states. My district is home to the craftsmen and women who often have to pack up and leave their families behind for months at a time to work on location. Many have not worked in California for over 10 years,” said Rep. Judy Chu (D-Pasadena). "Wall Street is to New York, as movie and TV magic is to California. That's why we need to make sure the Senate passes and ultimately, Governor Brown signs AB 1839, so our state's incentive program can be competitive. The future of California's creative culture and economy depends on it." The full letter sent to the Senate and Assembly leaders is below:Dear Senate President Steinberg and Assembly Speaker Atkins:As members of the California Congressional Delegation, we write to ask that you reauthorize and enhance the California film tax credit during the 2014 legislative session. We appreciate your past support for reauthorizing the film tax credit, and believe that it is time to make the credit competitive with other states that are aggressively attracting film and television production from throughout California.As you know, California’s film tax credit will expire in 2015. The expiration is a moment to consider the growing body of evidence that the tax credit programs in other states are increasingly making California financially uncompetitive as a production location. A June 2013 study by the California Film Commission found that feature film production in the state is far down from previous highs due to runaway production. The Office of the Legislative Analyst recently found that only 52 percent of film and television jobs are located in California, down from 65 percent just a decade ago.The losses are particularly stark in production sectors that are ineligible for the state film tax credit. The California Film Commission study found a 58 percent decline since 2005 in California’s share of one-hour network drama production – productions that are ineligible for the production credit. And for large budget features, the costs of which far exceed the current $75 million eligibility cap for the current film tax credit, production in California has become a rarity. Where in 1997, 16 of the 25 largest grossing films were primarily shot in California, in 2013 only 2 of 25 were produced in California.A competitive film tax credit is a net win for our state, creating jobs, generating economic activity, and increasing tax revenues for the state and municipalities. Studies conducted by the Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation and the Headway Institute both estimated that for every dollar allocated to the film tax credit, the state and local governments saw a net positive impact in their tax revenues. According to the California Film Commission’s “Progress Report - July 2013,” each $100 million in credits resulted in $792 million in economic activity, creating roughly 8,500 new middle class jobs.As you consider reauthorizing the existing credit, we urge you to enhance it to be more nationally competitive. Among the enhancements to the current credit that would help are substantially increasing the overall pot allotted, raising the cap that prevents blockbuster films from competing, and allowing hour long television dramas to qualify for the credit. We urge you to work with the legislature and leaders in the state to prioritize cost effective and competitive reforms that create jobs.We fear a day, not too far off, when the film industry in California is hollowed out and it becomes easier to produce a movie or television show in New York or Louisiana than in California. As production moves out of our state, skilled human capital will relocate along with it, and our greatest competitive advantage, our talented workforce will move elsewhere. If that happens, it will be a tragedy for our state’s economy and our cultural history.We urge you to take this opportunity to protect a vital economic engine for our state, and we stand committed to do our part to protect the competitiveness of US filmmaking at the federal level. Thank you for your consideration.
07.21.14	07.21.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on President Signing Executive Order Banning Discrimination Against LGBT Workers Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), vice chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus (Equality Caucus), released the following statement after President signed an executive order prohibiting federal contractors and agencies from discriminating against employees on the bases of sexual orientation and gender identity:“With Republicans still unwilling to bring up the Employment Non-Discrimination Act in the House – despite bipartisan support during passage in the Senate – the President was right to act to protect LGBT workers in the federal government from being discriminated against. We should be using every avenue available to fight discrimination – it’s just the right thing to do. “Nevertheless, this does not free Congress from the responsibility to pass ENDA and protect all workers from discrimination and we must continue to call for such action, and work to narrow the exemption granted to religious organizations.”Schiff earlier led an effort urging President Obama to issue such an Executive Order. The announcement is an important step towards ending discrimination against LGBT employees and ensuring that they are judged based on the quality of their work and not because of who they are or who they love. The executive order, when implemented, will only protect employees of federal contractors and federal agencies.Schiff is an original co-sponsor of the bipartisan Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which passed the U.S. Senate in November 2013. ENDA currently has 205 cosponsors in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Employment Non-Discrimination Act would establish basic protections in the workplace to prevent discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. There are currently only 18 states (including California) and the District of Columbia that prohibit discrimination on bases of sexual orientation and gender identity, and an additional 3 states that prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. ENDA would provide a basic level of protection against workplace discrimination in a manner modeled closely on Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and would apply to private employers as well as local, state, and federal government employers.
07.15.14	07.15.14 Rep. Schiff Secures $5 Million in Appropriations Bill to Deploy Full West Coast Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that the Appropriations Committee has included $5 million in funding in the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for the Earthquake Early Warning System, the first time Congress has ever provided funding specifically for the system. Earlier this year, Schiff led a group of 25 Members from California, Washington and Oregon in organizing a request that the committee fund an early earthquake warning system. A limited system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley and University of Washington, in conjunction with the United State Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. This $5 million in funding will allow those developing the statewide system to begin purchasing and installing additional sensors, hire new staff members, and come closer to deploying comprehensive early earthquake warning coverage throughout earthquake prone regions of the West Coast. The Schiff language included in the Appropriations bill reads: “…the Committee provides $5,000,000 from within the funds provided for Earthquake Hazards to transition the earthquake early warning demonstration project into an operational capability on the West Coast.”“It’s critical that the West Coast implement an earthquake early warning system that will give us a heads up before the ‘big one’ hits, so we can save lives and protect infrastructure,” said Rep. Schiff. “We are constantly reminded of our vulnerability – with tremors, earthquakes and aftershocks rattling our homes and businesses – and even a few seconds of warning will allow people to seek cover, automatically slow or stop trains, pause surgeries and more. This first phase of funding will allow the work to begin expanding the system, and we will continue to work to secure future funding along with our other federal, state and local partners.”"Caltech and its partners are very grateful that the House of Representatives is sending a strong signal of support for implementation of an earthquake early warning for the West Coast," said President Thomas F. Rosenbaum of the California Institute of Technology. "We look forward to moving ahead with this critical technology over the next few years."In April, Rep. Schiff and 25 Members from California, Washington and Oregon sent a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging them to fully fund an earthquake early warning system. Schiff’s letter requested additional funding for the Earthquake Hazards Program in USGS to kickstart the process of building out the early warning system so we can be ready for the next big quake. In the letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, the Members wrote:Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member Moran:As you craft the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you provide the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) with an additional $16.1 million for the construction, operation and maintenance of an Earthquake Early Warning System.The USGS, in collaboration with Caltech, UC Berkeley, and the University of Washington, has developed an Earthquake Early Warning system that detects waves radiating from the epicenter of a quake and would provide people with several to tens of seconds of warning in California, and up to few minutes in Washington and Oregon through their phones, computers and other media. With advanced notice, people can take cover, automated systems can be triggered to slow down trains and manage the power grid, doctors can pause surgeries, and more. The technology has been tested and proven to work effectively.An Earthquake Early Warning system along the West Coast would cost $16.1 million per year to construct, operate and maintain. FEMA has estimated that earthquakes cost the United States, averaged over the long term, more than $5 billion a year. This common-sense investment will save lives, protect businesses, and could make a real difference in more rapid recovery for local communities, the federal government and the economy as a whole.While we cannot predict when and where the next major earthquake will hit, we must do all we can to prepare ourselves so that we can mitigate the injuries, destruction, and chaos as much as possible. We appreciate your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you.
07.10.14	07.10.14 Reps. Schiff and Polis Secure $20 Million in Additional Funding in Appropriations Bill for Cutting-Edge Energy Program Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Jared Polis (D-CO) passed an amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations bill which would boost funding for the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) by $20 million, to a total of $300 million a year. Started in 2009, ARPA-E is a revolutionary program that advances high-potential, high-impact energy technologies, leveraging federal funds to generate additional private sector investment. Schiff offered similar amendments in 2011 and 2013, both of which were successful, and this one passed by a vote of 216-206.ARPA-E is modeled after the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), which has produced famously successful inventions for the Department of Defense, perhaps most notably the Internet. ARPA-E’s rigorous program design, competitive project selection process, and active program management ensures that our taxpayer dollars are being used wisely. In the few short years of its existence, the program has funded 362 projects. And these project investments have paid off. Since 2009, twenty-two project teams have leveraged the ARPA-E’s investment of approximately $95 million dollars into $625 million dollars in private sector capital.“This is a very important investment for an agency whose work is helping reshape our economy. That a majority of the House has, for the third time, voted for an amendment to increase funding for ARPA-E shows the strong bipartisan support for the type of research this innovative agency fosters,” said Rep. Schiff. “If we are serious about staying at the forefront of the energy revolution, then we must continue to invest in the kind of cutting-edge research ARPA-E supports. By providing the additional funding through our amendment today, we will send a clear signal that America intends to lead that revolution. While other programs focus on funding technologies that can be deployed soon, ARPA-E focuses on the high-risk, high-reward technologies that have the capacity to completely remake our society and economy.”“As an entrepreneur, I understand how difficult it can be to secure funding for innovative early stage technologies, so I am thrilled that the House voted on a bipartisan basis to increase funding for ARPA-E,” said Rep. Polis. “This critical program brings together forward thinking private investors to create jobs, help our economy, and move us toward energy security and independence.” The bill originally provided $280 million for ARPA-E, which was significantly below the Administration’s request for $325 million. This increase in funding for ARPA-E is fully paid for with a reduction in the Department Administration account.
07.10.14	07.10.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Release of Benghazi Transcripts by Armed Services Committee Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and a member of the Benghazi Select Committee, released the following statement following the publication of transcripts of the depositions of military commanders during the House Armed Services Committee’s investigation into the Benghazi attacks:"The Armed Services Committee did a thorough investigation into the question of whether military assets were available to rescue Ambassador Stevens and the other personnel under attack in Benghazi, and concluded that there were not. This Republican-led investigation also debunked the conspiracy theory that someone ordered the military to ‘stand down’ or otherwise impeded relief efforts – this was also emphatically not the case. By releasing the transcripts, the public can read the interviews itself and I applaud the committee's decision to increase transparency into what has become a highly politicized issue. “It’s my hope that the Select Committee on Benghazi will choose not to tread this same ground, but will focus on more productive areas, such as whether the State Department is implementing the sound recommendations of the Accountability Review Board. This should done in conjunction with the existing committees that are charged with these responsibilities on an ongoing basis. “Just because the Select Committee has been given a $3.3 million budget – larger than that of many standing committees – doesn't mean we need to spend it all. The Select Committee should focus on those areas that have not already been well-trod, like that by the Armed Services Committee here, and only areas where we can add value."
06.24.14	06.24.14 International Creativity and Theft-Prevention Caucus Unveils "2014 International Piracy Watch List" Washington, DC –Today, the International Creativity and Theft-Prevention Caucus, which is chaired by Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), and Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), unveiled the “2014 International Piracy Watch List.” In an effort to fight copyright piracy and call attention to countries where it has reached alarming levels, the Caucus highlighted the high levels of piracy and the lack of legal protections for copyright in the following countries: China, Russia, Switzerland and India. The report also highlights and applauds Italy and the Philippines as countries in transition following the enactment of stronger legal frameworks for the protection of copyright in both nations. To read the full report, please click here.The American music, film, software, gaming, and book and journal publishing industries are among America’s top exporters, and millions of jobs depend on their continued international leadership. Americans must not be forced to subsidize the content that others steal. Likewise American businesses should not be forced to compete with foreign companies that cut production costs by using unlicensed software or pirated scientific articles.In the report, the Caucus also highlighted the important role that private sector plays in reducing copyright infringement, and the issue of ad-supported piracy websites – the appearance of ads on pirate websites generates substantial revenues for these illegal sites, while also lending a false air of legitimacy. Since the Caucus first highlighted the issue in 2011, a February 2014 study by the Digital Citizens Alliance found that the 600 content theft sites studied generated $227 million in annual revenues through the sale of advertising. The report, titled Good Money Gone Bad, showed that illegal websites can generate enormous profits through the sale of advertising space, frequently to major U.S. companies. The Caucus also wrote to the major players in the advertising space to encourage them to study the problem, adopt best practices, and operationalize their commitment to keep advertising off of sites dedicated to theft, and recent received an update from those major players (ANA, 4As, and IAB), which details the concrete steps currently underway to evaluate “digital ad assurance” technologies. To read the full correspondence, click here for the Caucus letter and response.“Whether it is movie makers, musicians, or and app makers, our economy is based upon the principle that property should be respected -- not stolen --and this right does not end at the water's edge. This is not only fair, but it is good economics,” said Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA). “That’s why we started the Watch List – to alert those who are profiting by stealing the hard work of American creators and the countries helping them that we are paying attention and we expect our trading partners to protect intellectual property rights. Our creative industries employ millions of Americans and are some of our most competitive exports. All we want is a level playing field where all nations live up to their obligations to protect intellectual property and enforce existing laws.”“The recognition of an author’s ownership in an original creative work is one of our legal system’s core principles,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). “If we allow people to take that work without paying for it, artists will no longer have any financial incentive to create new movies, software, video games, books and music. The end result is the loss of billions of dollars in revenue for the U.S. each year and even greater losses to our economy in terms of reduced job growth and exports. While the U.S. is the world’s leader in intellectual property protections, the problem does not stop at our borders. The only way to ensure the full protection of Americans’ creative works is to actively encourage other countries around the globe to enact and enforce strong intellectual property laws.”“This Watch List reminds us of the enormous economic importance of the American copyright industries and the many jobs they create,” Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) said. “We should celebrate our country’s continued success producing movies, music, and software, but also must protect these jobs from digital piracy and other forms of theft.”“The American music, film, publishing and design industries comprise a significant portion of our nation’s economy," said Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT). "Unfortunately we continue to see vast amounts of content on the Internet stolen by digital thieves. The time is ripe for Congress and industry stakeholders to come together with a renewed focus to combat online piracy.In my view, this cooperative effort is best achieved through a voluntary, self-regulatory framework.” About the Caucus:The International Creativity and Theft-Prevention Caucus was originally formed in 2003 to call attention to the rampant theft of Intellectual Property, both online and in physical marketplaces, and to call attention to the very real economic impacts in the United States. Since its founding, the Caucus has shined a spotlight on nations and actors who are failing to meet their obligations to protect intellectual property. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
06.16.14	06.16.14 Rep. Schiff Applauds White House Move to Prevent Discrimination Against LGBT Workers Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a vice chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus (Equality Caucus) applauded the announcement that President will sign an executive order prohibiting federal contractors and agencies from discriminating against employees on the bases of sexual orientation and gender identity. Schiff earlier led an effort urging President Obama to issue such an Executive Order. The announcement is an important step towards ending discrimination against LGBT employees and ensuring that they are judged based on the quality of their work and not because of who they are or who they love. The executive order, when implemented, will only protect employees of federal contractors and federal agencies.“The President’s actions today are important, and a welcome first step while we wait for the Republican leadership to bring up the Employment Non-Discrimination Act – which passed with strong bipartisan support in the Senate –- for a vote in the House,” said Rep. Schiff. “With the House leadership thus far preventing a vote, it was time to use every avenue available to fight discrimination against LGBT Americans. Nevertheless, this does not free Congress from the responsibility to pass ENDA and protect all workers from discrimination and we continue to call for such action.”Rep. Schiff is an original co-sponsor of the bipartisan Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), which passed the U.S. Senate in November 2013. ENDA currently has 205 cosponsors in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Employment Non-Discrimination Act would establish basic protections in the workplace to prevent discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. There are currently only 18 states (including California) and the District of Columbia that prohibit discrimination on bases of sexual orientation and gender identity, and an additional 3 states that prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. ENDA would provide a basic level of protection against workplace discrimination in a manner modeled closely on Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and would apply to private employers as well as local, state, and federal government employers.
06.11.14	06.11.14 Reps. Schiff and Huffman Pass Amendment Directing USDA to Update Rules Protecting Captive Orcas and Other Marine Mammals Washington, DC—Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Jared Huffman (D-CA) attached an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations Act to require the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to conduct and update the science necessary for Animal Welfare Act regulations on captivity of orcas and cetaceans. The amendment would direct the Animal & Plant Health Inspection Service – which regulates animal captivity, sale, and exhibition– to update and finalize captive marine mammal regulations that have languished for 20 years. The Schiff-Huffman amendment passed with unanimous bipartisan support.“For almost 20 years, USDA has failed to review and update the Animal Welfare Act regulations for captive orcas and other marine mammals. These rules certainly should have been revised in light of new data twelve years ago when USDA opened up the rulemaking process. Unfortunately, they dropped the ball—so it’s time to try again,” Reps. Schiff and Huffman said. “Our amendment reminds USDA that inaction is unacceptable – the American people want to see these regulations reviewed and updated to reflect the growing scientific and public concern about the effect of captivity on these animals.”In 2002, USDA sought public comment on an update to captive marine mammal standards for indoor facilities, outdoor facilities, water quality, space requirements, and swim-with-the-dolphin programs. During the public comment period, USDA received numerous comments from the animal exhibitor industry, animal welfare groups, the scientific community, and the general public, recommending changes to tank sizes and otherwise improving facilities for marine mammals. Yet twelve years later, USDA still has not finalized these regulations.Last month, Reps. Huffman, Schiff and 38 members of Congress called on USDA to take immediate steps to ensure the regulations protecting captive orcas and marine mammals reflect modern science. In a bipartisan letter to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack, the members of Congress urged his department to immediately update Animal Welfare Act (AWA) regulations for captive marine mammals, which have not been updated since 1995.To see speeches by Reps. Schiff and Huffman on the House Floor in support of their amendment, please click here.
06.10.14	06.10.14 House Narrowly Defeats Amendment to Allow Bob Hope Airport to Adopt Curfew Washington, DC –Today, the House of Representatives came within a few votes of allowing the Bob Hope Airport to adopt a curfew on an amendment to the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Act proposed by Reps. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) Brad Sherman (D-Sherman Oaks), and Henry Waxman (D-Los Angeles). The amendment was defeated by a narrow vote of 208 to 212. This issue previously was voted on in 2011, and failed then by a vote of 178-243.“I’m disappointed that our amendment to allow Bob Hope Airport to adopt a curfew narrowly missed passage,” said Rep. Schiff. “But I'm encouraged that bipartisan support for a curfew at the Bob Hope Airport has only grown, and hope that the FAA gets the message that we are serious about noise relief. The Part 161 process is deeply flawed and the FAA has little intention of granting relief to any community unless it is forced by Congress. I will continue fighting on behalf of the thousands of San Fernando Valley residents who have long-sought relief from aviation-related nighttime noise, and look for future opportunities to pass legislative language to make this possible.”“Ninety-nine percent of Valley residents want to sleep at night without being awakened by a loud jet,” said Rep. Sherman. “Congress should act so that the reasonable nighttime curfew sought by Burbank Airport can be put into place. I will continue to fight for nighttime curfews at both Van Nuys and Burbank Airports.”“I am disappointed the Republican controlled House has defeated this important, common-sense amendment,” said Rep. Waxman. “The airport should have the authority to impose a legally binding curfew on all flight operations and nighttime flights to the benefit of the residents who live in the surrounding communities.”This amendment would clarify that Bob Hope Airport should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act (ANCA), like other similarly situated airports were at the time of its passage. In the case of the Bob Hope Airport, this was one of the first airports in the country to impose a curfew. The language would allow Burbank Airport to adopt non-discriminatory curfews applicable to operators from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m."The City of Burbank and the Burbank City Council are committed to providing nighttime noise relief for the entire San Fernando Valley,” said Burbank Mayor David Gordon. “As a result, the City of Burbank and the Burbank City Council strongly support the legislative efforts of Congressmen Schiff and Sherman in this regard."The legislation would apply only to Bob Hope Airport and addresses concerns that the FAA cited in rejecting Burbank’s Part 161 application for a curfew – that it would add congestion to an already crowded airspace and it would impact the national system of airports because it would cause system wide delays. The proposal would have a minimal impact on local airspace because a joint curfew for both airports is designed to ensure that air traffic is not shifted from one airport to the other.During a speech on the House Floor, Schiff stated: “Thousands of residents of Southern California’s San Fernando Valley, who live under the flight paths or near the terminals at the Bob Hope Airport, endure the house-shaking noise of air traffic during the day and suffer the jarring interruption of their sleep caused by a roaring jet. To address the concerns of those affected by airport noise across the nation, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) established a process to consider an individual community’s request for a curfew. However, the process was designed to be difficult – so difficult, that in the decades since it was established by the FAA, only one airport in the nation has successfully completed an application – Bob Hope Airport. And then it was summarily turned down… Because of the FAA’s dismissive attitude toward legitimate local concerns it is clear to us that the only way to provide relief to the residents in our community is through legislative action.”
05.30.14	05.30.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Resignation of VA Secretary Shinseki Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement: "The President has accepted the resignation of VA Secretary Shinseki, and top leaders of the Phoenix office have been let go -- the overhaul of the VA has now begun in earnest. The Administration must act quickly to investigate and address chronic deficiencies and intolerable wait periods at VA's around the country. And Congress must help prepare for the surge in demand for Veteran's healthcare as the wounded from the nation's most recent wars continue to grapple with severe injuries and trauma. "Veterans in my district should know that if they experience any problem with the VA that we can assist with, please reach out to me. My office routinely assists veterans from our community in their efforts to get the treatment, medicine and care from the VA that they have earned, and we are ready to help you in any way."
05.29.14	05.29.14 Congressman Schiff to Ride in AIDS/LifeCycle – 545Mile Bike Journey from San Francisco to Raise Money and Awareness for AIDS Research and Treatment San Francisco/Los Angeles, CA – Starting Sunday, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) will join thousands of cyclists and volunteer “roadies” who will embark on a 545-mile journey from San Francisco to Los Angeles – the AIDS/LifeCycle – to raise awareness and funding for the fight to end HIV/AIDS. This annual journey raises millions of dollars to support the San Francisco AIDS Foundation and the HIV/AIDS-related services of the L.A. LGBT Center. Schiff will be the first Congressman to ever participate.“I’m fortunate to represent a district with a large and vibrant LGBT community, and many of my constituents have received the highest quality care and services from the LA LGBT Center, one of the main beneficiaries of the ride,” said Rep. Schiff. “I have been to the Center, I have seen the amazing work they do every day, and I know they have been a lifeline to people living with HIV.“Last year, I had a chance to participate in the closing ceremony of the ride, and I could not have been more impressed by the determination of the riders, the generosity of the donors, and the excitement of the roadies and all the participants. And I hoped that at some point I would have the opportunity to ride – little did I know the opportunity would come so soon. “I can’t wait to join with the thousands of other participants, and support such a great cause.”Now in its 13th year, AIDS/LifeCycle is a fully supported, 545-mile bike ride – not a race – that raises important awareness about the continued HIV/AIDS epidemic, in addition to funding services such as HIV testing and screenings for other sexually transmitted infections, HIV medical care, prevention services, and more.“We’re making great strides in fighting HIV and caring for those living with the disease, but our work is far from done,” said Lorri L. Jean, CEO of the L.A. LGBT Center. “Alarmingly, the HIV infection rate among gay and bisexual men and transgender people is on the rise, and we’re caring for record numbers of people in our Jeffrey Goodman Special Care Clinic. It’s thanks to the dedication and commitment of each AIDS/LifeCycle participant that we’re able to care for so many people, continue our work to fight new infections, advocate for sound HIV/AIDS policy, and conduct research to help end the epidemic.”In the seven days it takes the riders to reach Los Angeles, more than 1,000 people in the United States will become infected with HIV. Especially alarming is the fact that one out of every five people living with HIV nationwide is not aware of their status. Since the rides began as the California AIDS Ride in 1993, its participants completed more than 40,000 journeys on bikes from San Francisco to Los Angeles.
05.29.14	05.29.14 Rep. Schiff Hails Landmark Decision by Army Corps of Engineers to Restore LA River Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after it was announced that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Assistant Army Secretary for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy had come to agreement with the city of Los Angeles to recommend approval of a $1-billion proposal to restore the habitat, widen the river, create wetlands, and provide access points that will restore the Los Angeles River:“I’m beyond thrilled to learn that the Army Corps is getting behind the visionary and community-endorsed plan to revitalize the Los Angeles River. This plan will restore habitat, transform concrete into park-space and marshlands, develop new bike trails – in short, it will provide Angelenos an urban, recreational park for generations to come. As a steadfast supporter of the broader Alternative 20, I want to congratulate Mayor Garcetti. This would not have been possible without the leadership and determination of the Mayor, who argued that we must not miss this opportunity to restore economic, environmental, and social justice for kids and families in our great city. “While the Army Corps’ commitment to revitalizing the River is a huge step, much work will remain to fund the project – and that work begins now in Congress. We’re going to do everything we can to make sure the project receives the federal dollars it has been promised, and to see this project to completion. I think I join with all Angelenos in looking forward to the day where we can all enjoy the new and improved LA River.”Throughout the process, Rep. Schiff has met with and consulted with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in support of Alternative 20, helped secure $100,000 in funding to for the Los Angeles River Revitalization Study and Demonstration Project, and worked with the Mayor’s office to determine the appropriate way to lobby for this important funding. In 2010, Schiff also worked with Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard to designate the river as part of the Department of the Interior’s “America’s Great Outdoors” program. Since designation, the Army Corps of Engineers has been conducting the Los Angeles River Restoration Feasibility Study in partnership with the City of Los Angeles, to investigate opportunities to restore the river.
05.28.14	05.28.14 Rep. Schiff Announces Winners of First Ever Congressional Student STEM Challenge – Winners Built "Apps" La Cañada Flintridge, CA –Yesterday evening, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced the winners of the first annual congressional science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) academic competition, the House Student App Challenge, for the 28th Congressional District at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). The theme for the first year of the competition is Computer Science; challenging students to develop an application (“app”). The award ceremony was attended by more than eighty students, parents and teachers. JPL Deputy Director Larry James also addressed the students and parents assembled. Also present at the ceremony were Los Angeles Unified School District Administrator Dr. Todd Ullah and representatives from CalTech to inspire students to pursue STEM careers and educations.“This challenge was an extraordinary opportunity for students to put their technical skills to the test and try something different,” said Schiff. “In the next decade, the U.S. economy is expected to add over 8 million new STEM jobs, but faces a shortage of graduates trained in those fields. If this contest is any example, we’ll have some amazing talent coming out of our community who can come up with new and innovative ideas that will help shape our economy. If these talented students keep it up, I wouldn't be surprised to find the next Steve Jobs among them.”Samantha Englander, Laura Moreno, Javier Moro, and Diego Tamayo – a team from Hollywood High School – won 1st place for their app #MYOOTD. The app allows users to generate, save and try out new outfits on their phones before buying or wearing them. A user can upload photos of their own clothes, find clothes online or in stores and upload them, and build daily outfits and schedule ones in advance. The team envisions the app will allow brands to create an online presence and ensure that the perfect outfit doesn’t just appear on a store manikin. To view the video of the app, click here.Justin Park – from Crescenta Valley High School – won 2nd place for his app “Mission Multiplication.” The app combines learning multiplication tables with a space adventure – encouraging young students to learn their multiplication tables by traversing an asteroid field in a ship, shooting asteroids out of the way, and guiding the spaceship through the correct answer. Wrong answers reset the base multiplier, and asteroids reduce your ship’s hull – engaging young students in a way flashcards do not. To view the video of the app, click here.Trevor Fonda – from Crescenta Valley High School – won 3rd place for his app “A Knight’s Journey.” A knight’s journey is a theoretical challenge to create a sequence of moves of a knight on a chessboard to ensure that the knight (which is required to move in an L shape) visits each square only once. To view the video of the app, click here.Students from Clark Magnet High School, Hollywood High School, Crescenta Valley High School, John Marshall High School, La Cañada High, and University High School participated in the first annual contest.Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM education fields. Throughout the competition period, participating students were provided opportunities to engage with various STEM educational partners, tech entrepreneurs, and tech experts located in the District to mentor and assist them with their app development.The House Student STEM Challenge was open to all high school students who live in or attend high school in the 28th Congressional District. Photos from the competition can be found here.###
05.27.14	05.27.14 Rep. Schiff Urges Congress to Pass Gun Safety Laws After Isla Vista Shooting – "What Will It Take to Get Congress Moving on Responsible Gun Safety Laws?" Los Angeles, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor, released the following statement calling on Congress to move on responsible and commonsense gun safety laws in the wake of yet another mass shooting in Isla Vista, California:"The shooting at Isla Vista is another heartbreaking tragedy, and another example of the senseless gun violence affecting our communities. What will it take to get the Congress moving on responsible gun safety laws? What will it take to keep guns out of the hands of seriously mentally ill people? How many more Sandy Hooks, Auroras, Stocktons, Columbines, Virginia Techs, and Isla Vistas must we have? How many more cities and schools will have names that become synonymous with gun violence? Where does it end?"With each of these tragedies, the fabric of our country is torn a bit more. Are we ready to say enough is enough? Will our Congress listen if we do?"
05.22.14	05.22.14 Just Before Memorial Day, House Passes Rep. Schiff Amendment Urging Secretary Hagel to Put Names of "Lost 74" on Vietnam Wall Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that on the eve of Memorial Day, the House of Representatives has passed an amendment to the annual defense authorization bill urging Department of Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel to add the names of 74 sailors lost on the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans during the Vietnam War to the Vietnam Wall. On June 3, 1969, the USS Frank E. Evans was cut in half by an Australian aircraft carrier in the South China Sea – 74 American sailors lost their lives. The USS Frank E. Evans was participating in a joint Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) exercise called "Sea Spirit" in the South China Sea with more than 40 ships of SEATO nations, at the time of the collision with HMAS Melbourne. Despite operating in Vietnamese waters immediately before deployment to Exercise Sea Spirit, and being scheduled to return to activities supporting the war effort after the exercise, it was determined that since Exercise Sea Spirit took place outside the geographical limit for the combat zone the crew was ineligible for inclusion on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. While the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans was not in the combat zone as defined by Executive Order 11216, the ship was supporting the ongoing military conflict in Vietnam and the crew was instrumental in advancing American military objectives in Vietnam. Not to mention, the crew had participated in conflict just days before the collision. Vietnam veterans have long argued that inclusion on the monument should not be determined by geographic location, and exceptions to this rule have previously been made for service members killed as part of the conflict but not in Vietnam itself. For example, those involved in operations in Laos (Laos was later included in the combat zone) and those dying in transit to or from Vietnam have been made are eligible for the memorial. Since first being approached several years ago by a family of a sailor lost on the ship, Rep. Schiff has been pushing the Administration and successive Defense Secretaries to rectify this situatiom. After meeting with Rep. Schiff in Nov. 2010, Secretary of the Navy Mabus expressed his support for adding the 74 sailors to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. After the vote in the House, Schiff stated: “Hopefully today’s vote puts us one step closer to the reality of seeing the names of the Lost 74 of the U.S.S. Frank E. Evans on the Vietnam Wall. They died serving our country during the Vietnam War and there is no reason for to deny these sailors their rightful place on the memorial.”The U.S.S. Frank E. Evans Association praised the amendment and urged the Secretary to act quickly. “The tragic loss of the USS Frank E Evans on 3 June, 1969, continues to haunt the families and shipmates of the 74 lost sailors who gave their lives for their country,” said Tim Wendler, President of the Association. “I lost my father days before my second birthday, and my mom, became a much too young 21 year-old widow. This haunting continues because we, as a nation, have failed to adequately address an issue which could, once and for all, provide closure to the families, shipmates and survivors of this tragedy. We deeply appreciate the action of the House today, led by Congressman Adam Schiff, to remember our Lost 74 Heroes and begin the healing process.”The Vice President of the Association, Steve Kraus, stated: “I can’t think how awful it must have felt in 1985 when the Box Family traveled to visit the Vietnam Memorial in Washington D.C. to find their son, Thomas Belue Box was not on the Wall. Forty-five years later his name and the names of the other 73 lost are still not recognized for the greatest sacrifice one can give, their lives. Eunice Sage once told me all she ever wanted was ‘Her Boys’ to be added to the Vietnam Memorial Wall – she died never seeing that come true.” Eunice Sage lost three sons, Gary, Greg, and Kelly Jo on USS Frank E. Evans.William “Randy” Slaughter, a constituent of Schiff’s in Glendale, stated: “I served on the aircraft carrier U.S.S. Kearsarge at the time of the incident and the Evans was one of our escort ships and we were close by when the accident happened. The cause for the fallen 74 has been close to my heart since that morning when the sun came up and I looked down from the Kearsarge flight deck at what I used to know as a proud American Navy destroyer. It's time to right a major wrong and get the names of the 74 on The Wall before any more of their families and the survivors and their families aren't with us anymore to witness it. We owe it to them.”Rep. Schiff has continued to keep close contact with the USS Frank E. Evans Association and has once again sought to right this injustice. This summer, Schiff wrote to Secretary of Defense Hagel to ask for a meeting so that he can make the case personally that the names of the Lost 74 sailors of the USS Frank E. Evans be added to the memorial – Hagel is a Vietnam veteran, himself – and Schiff has now met with Hagel, and is continuing to follow up. Schiff also wrote to Secretary Panetta.Schiff’s amendment to the defense authorization bill reads:Whereas the Congress notes the continued popularity and importance of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial as a place of reflection and healing for a generation;Whereas the simple inscriptions of the names of the Nation’s dead bear mute testimony to the sacrifice of more than 58,000 Americans, serving as a deep source of comfort and pride for the families of those who were lost;Whereas, 74 sailors were lost aboard the USS Frank E. Evans, which sank after colliding with the HMAS Melbourne on June 3, 1969 during a Southeast Asia Treaty Organization exercise just outside the designated combat zone;Whereas the Frank Evans had been providing support fire for combat operations in Vietnam before the exercise that resulted in the accident and was scheduled to return after the exercise;Whereas the families of the 74 men lost aboard the USS Frank E. Evans have been fighting for decades to have their loved ones added to the Memorial;Whereas exceptions have been granted to inscribe the names on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial for other servicemembers who were killed outside of the designated combat zone, including in 1983 when President Ronald Reagan ordered that 68 Marines who died on a flight outside the combat zone be added to the wall;Whereas Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus, in a letter dated December 15, 2010, expressed support for the addition of the 74 names to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial;Whereas heroism and sacrifice should never go unrecognized because of an arbitrary line on a map;Now be it therefore resolved that it is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should order that the names of the 74 military personnel lost aboard the USS Frank E. Evans on June 3, 1969 be added to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial
05.22.14	05.22.14 House Narrowly Defeats Rep. Schiff Amendment Sunsetting 9/11 Authorization for Use of Military Force Washington, DC – Today, an amendment by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee which would have sunset the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) one year after enactment, was narrowly defeated on the House Floor during consideration of the annual Defense Authorization bill. This amendment built on Schiff’s bipartisan legislation which would sunset the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF), and calls on the Administration and Congress to work together to determine what new authority is necessary to protect the country after that time. It was defeated by a vote of 191 to 233, after a debate on the House Floor.Last year, a similar amendment by Schiff was considered as part of the FY 2014 Defense Appropriations bill – the first time since 2001 that the AUMF has been debated – and received 185 bipartisan votes, including 30 Republicans.Following the September 11 attacks, the Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force to provide the President with authorization to use “force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations or persons.”Schiff stated: “The post 9/11 AUMF no longer properly encompasses the scope of military action that we are taking in the ongoing fight against terrorism. While the AUMF was originally directed at a fairly narrow range of actors, it has been used to sanction targeted strikes against groups and militants with little relation to the individuals who planned, authorized, and perpetrated the attacks on September 11, 2001. “There is bipartisan support for bringing our actions into conformity with the law, and a broad recognition that Congress is abdicating its responsibility to define the nature of the conflict in which we are engaged. The time is now to sunset the AUMF, and it’s my hope that this vote will bring a sense of urgency about the issue in Congress and in the Administration.”Since the AUMF passed, the U.S. has invaded Afghanistan, toppling the Taliban and routing the core of Al Qaeda. The country now faces threats from individuals, entities and organizations that may affiliate with al Qaeda, or share its ideology and its determination to attack Americans, but which may not have even been in existence on September 11, 2001. In his speech last year at the National Defense University, President Obama specifically called on Congress to work with him. “I look forward to engaging Congress and the American people in efforts to refine, and ultimately repeal, the AUMF’s mandate,” Obama said. “And I will not sign laws designed to expand this mandate further. Our systematic effort to dismantle terrorist organizations must continue. But this war, like all wars, must end.”Rep. Schiff’s amendment is below and can be found here:SUNSET OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY FORCE.(a) IN GENERAL.—The Authorization for Use of Military Force (50 U.S.C. 1541 note; Public Law 107–40) is hereby repealed.(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section shall take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
05.22.14	05.22.14 Rep. Adam Schiff Applauds Passage of USA freedom Act Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after voting to pass H.R. 3361, the USA Freedom Act – the legislation, which tracks closely with legislation Schiff previously introduced, ends the bulk collection of telephone metadata:“The passage of today's bill puts the Congress on track to end the bulk collection of American’s telephone records and implements reforms to surveillance authorities to protect privacy and increase transparency."For a long time, I have urged that the telephone metadata program should end in favor of a system in which telecommunications providers retain their own records so they can be queried based on a court approved reasonable articulable suspicion standard. That’s precisely what this bill puts in place. It allows us to keep the capabilities we need to protect the nation from terrorist plots, while protecting privacy and civil liberties.“There are remaining ways that this bill can be improved, and I hope that as it heads to the Senate there are opportunities to do so. It is my hope that provisions to introduce an adversarial process in the FISA Court will be included by the Senate. The FISA Court, and public trust, would benefit from an independent advocate who could represent the privacy interests of the American people in the limited number of cases that call for significant statutory interpretation or present novel issues. I hope that the Senate will incorporate these provisions, which would be both wise and constitutionally sound.”Background:Schiff has introduced several pieces of reform legislation in addition to proposing changes to the phone metadata program. First, Schiff introduced the Telephone Metadata Reform Act, which would restructure the telephone metadata program by specifically removing call records from the types of information the Government can obtain under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. Instead, records would be obtained on a case by case basis from the telephone companies subject to approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Second, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Third, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Finally, Schiff introduced legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.
05.21.14	05.21.14 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on Being Appointed to Benghazi Select Committee Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after being appointed to the Select Committee on Benghazi:“I’ve been involved in the investigation into Benghazi from day one as a Member of the Intelligence Committee because like every other American I want to know what happened, why it happened, how we can keep it from happening again, and I want to bring to justice those that perpetrated this horrible attack. But almost 18 months later, and after 8 reports from House and Senate committees and the Accountability Review Board, the questions that this select committee purports to investigate have been asked and answered time and time and time again.“This morning, Leader Pelosi asked if I would serve on the select committee on Benghazi. While I do not believe that yet another committee to investigate Benghazi is either needed or warranted, I said that if it was felt I could add value I would serve. "We must keep our focus where it should have been all along – on the deaths of those four brave Americans, on finding those responsible and bringing them to justice, and on implementing changes to our overseas security to make sure this never happens again. It is my hope that this latest investigative effort does not degenerate into a select committee on talking points, and that we retain a focus on the things that really matter -- improving security and finding the killers."
05.13.14	05.13.14 Rep. Schiff Presses Erdogan, Gul and other top Turkish Officials on the Armenian Genocide, the Blockade of Armenia, and the Plight of the People of Kessab at Meeting in Ankara Washington, DC –As part of a Congressional Delegation to the Middle East and Asia focused on terrorism, homeland security and the war in Syria, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) had separate meetings with Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan, President Abdullah Gul and other Turkish high government officials.In his meeting with the Prime Minister, Schiff challenged the notion expressed by Erdogan in a recent interview that because there are Armenian survivors still living in Turkey, there could have been no genocide. This is the equivalent, Schiff argued, of saying that because some Jews in Europe escaped death, there was no Holocaust. Schiff also questioned whether it was possible to have the open discourse in Turkey about the events of 1915-1923 that Erdogan called for in his statement of April 23rd, if Turkish professors, historians, journalists and ordinary citizens still faced demotion, intimidation, potential prosecution or violence for expressing the conviction that the Armenian Genocide is a historic fact.In his meeting with President Gul, Schiff said that he wanted to speak for the many tens of thousands of his constituents of Armenian descent who may never get the chance to address the President directly. "You will not find one of my 80,000 Armenian constituents untouched by the Genocide," he said. "Each of them has lost a parent or grandparent, their cousins, brothers or sisters, or their entire family. Their pain is real, their wounds are open, this is no distant relic of the past. To say, as you and the Prime Minister have, that yes, Armenians suffered but so too did Turks during World War I, is akin to saying that the Germans also suffered during World War II. It is true that many German civilians died, many noncombatants, but that does not negate the Holocaust any more than the fact that many Turks died could negate the Genocide. To propose, as you have, that a historic commission be established to ascertain the facts of the Genocide is not unlike suggesting that a commission needs to be established to determine whether the Holocaust took place." Schiff also raised the issue of Kessab, and his concern over the forced evacuation of the historic Armenian community there and the wellbeing of those residents who are now refugees in Turkey. He also urged Turkey to decouple the blockade of Armenia from resolution of the issues concerning Nagorno Karabagh, so that we can bring about an end to Armenia's economic isolation and a normalization of trade relations.
05.08.14	05.08.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Intel Committee Vote to Advance Bill to End Bulk Collection of Metadata Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence unanimously advanced H.R. 3361, the USA Freedom Act. The legislation, which tracks closely with legislation Schiff previously introduced, ends the bulk collection of telephone metadata.During the markup, Schiff offered and withdrew an amendment based on legislation he has introduced called the “Ensuring Adversarial Process Before the FISA Court Act” which would have established a panel of attorneys to participate in cases before the FISA Court involving novel legal and technical issues and to argue on behalf of protections for privacy and civil liberties.Schiff stated: “The bill reported unanimously today by the Intelligence Committee is a very important step on the road to ending bulk collection and reforming the metadata program. It is also an indication of the emerging consensus on how to reform our surveillance authorities while preserving the capabilities we need to protect our nation. The bill we passed ends bulk collection, and moves to a model where the telecommunications providers hold their own data. It also largely tracks the Telephone Metadata Reform Act that I introduced in January, which requires FISC approval before a query is made to the telephone companies in the absence of exigent circumstances."I appreciate the work done by both the intelligence and judiciary committee members and leadership to find compromise and move forward. There is still much work to be done, and I hope to make more progress as the debate moves towards the floor. Among the areas I believe the bill can improve are strengthening the provisions to provide for an adversarial process in the FISA Court and permitting more informative transparency reporting by service providers and Internet companies.”Background:Schiff has introduced several pieces of reform legislation in addition to proposing changes to the phone metadata program. First, Schiff introduced the Telephone Metadata Reform Act, which would restructure the telephone metadata program by specifically removing call records from the types of information the Government can obtain under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. Instead, records would be obtained on a case by case basis from the telephone companies subject to approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Second, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Third, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Finally, Schiff introduced legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.
05.07.14	05.07.14 Rep. Adam Schiff – House Appropriations Bill Significantly Ups Planetary Science Funding Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Subcommittee released its draft proposal significantly upping funding for planetary science:“I'm very pleased that the subcommittee has made such a strong investment in planetary science – one of the Crown Jewels of NASA's portfolio. With this funding increase, we will be able to keep Mars 2020 on track and begin an exciting new mission to Europa, two of the science community's highest priorities. We should also be able to continue the operation of craft that have exceeded their estimated lives but continue to produce valuable science. “Thanks to the brilliant scientists and engineers at NASA and JPL, we have the unique ability to design, fly and land sophisticated robots on our planetary neighbors – and if these projects are disrupted, we might lose this perishable and incredibly specialized talent pool. This appropriations bill will ensure that we will not surrender America’s leadership on planetary science, and I thank Chairman Wolf and Ranking Member Fattah for working with us to, once again, restore adequate funding to planetary science. I only wish it wasn’t necessary to do so year after year.”Background:Overall funding for planetary will be at $1.45 billion, including a total of $302 million for the Mars program of which not less than $100 million is for the Mars 2020 rover, which will meet the decadal goals of advancing a sample return. The bill also includes $100 million for a Europa Clipper mission to the Jupiter system, which could be launched as early as 2021. Below are the previous budget requests and enacted numbers for NASA, planetary science and Mars exploration in the past three years:AgencyFY 2012 RequestFY 2012 EnactedFY 2013 RequestFY 2013 Enacted*FY 2014 RequestFY 2014 OmnibusNASA18,724.317,770.017,711.417,526.717,715.417,646.5Science5,016.85,073.74,911.25,047.45,017.85,151.2Planetary Science1,540.71,501.41,192.31,388.51,217.51,345.0 Mars Exploration602.2587.0360.8442.4234.0288.0
04.30.14	04.30.14 Rep. Schiff Announces White House Will Display Armenian Orphan Rug Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the White House has agreed to exhibit the “Armenian Orphan Rug” in the near future, likely this fall. The rug, woven by orphans of the Armenian Genocide in 1920, was presented to President Calvin Coolidge in 1925 as a symbol of gratitude for American aid and generosity for U.S. assistance during the genocide. The Armenian Orphan Rug, which measures 11'7" x 18'5”, has over 4,000,000 hand-tied knots and took the Armenian girls in the Ghazir Orphanage of the Near East Relief Society 10 months to weave. President Coolidge noted that, "The rug has a place of honor in the White House where it will be a daily symbol of goodwill on earth.” The rug – which has been in storage at the White House for decades – was supposed to be released for exhibition in a Smithsonian event for the launch of Hagop Martin Deranian’s new book “President Calvin Coolidge and the Armenian Orphan Rug.” Unfortunately, the rug was not able to be displayed at that time.“Since first raising this issue with the Administration, I have worked diligently with the White House to find a way for the Ghazir rug to be sensitively and appropriately displayed,” said Rep. Schiff. “Today, I’m pleased to be able to say that planning is underway for the Armenian Orphan Rug to be displayed as early as this fall. I have worked out with the White House that the display will take place in a venue that is open to the general public, and I appreciate their willingness to place this significant artifact on display for all to see.”Schiff and Rep. David Valadao (R-CA) sent a letter, along with 31 other Members, to President Obama last year urging the Administration to allow exhibition of the rug. The full letter is below, and can be found here, and in the letter they stated: “The Armenian Orphan Rug is a piece of American history and it belongs to the American people. For over a decade, Armenian American organizations have sought the public display of the rug and have requested the White House and the State Department grant their request on numerous occasions. Unfortunately, Armenian Americans have yet to have their requests granted.We urge you to release this American treasure for exhibition.”Since sending the letter, Schiff has worked with the White House to find a way for the rug to be sensitively and appropriately displayed. Details of the future exhibition will be released as they come available.
04.29.14	04.29.14 Rep. Schiff Announces Winners of Congressional Art Competition Burbank, CA –This weekend, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) hosted the annual 28th District Congressional Art Competition Forum and Exhibit at Van De Kamp Hall in Descanso Gardens. During the exhibit, attended by more than 200 students, teachers and parents, Schiff announced that Celynne Hebron’s piece “This Too Shall Pass” had won first place and will be included in the nationwide Congressional Arts Competition: An Artistic Discovery in Washington, D.C. Her artwork will hang in the United States Capitol for one year, along with that of other winners from around the nation. Hebron is from Hollywood, and attends Immaculate Heart High School. Additionally, Schiff announced that Grace Poole, a student from La Crescenta attending Crescenta Valley High School, and Madisen Hunt, a student from Glendale attending Crescenta Valley High School, had won second and third place, respectively. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Gigi Manukyan, a student from Burbank attending Burbank High School. Almost 2,000 constituents voted in the “People’s Choice” online contest this year. “Every year, I get the opportunity to see some absolutely amazing artwork submitted by high school students from across our community,” said Schiff. “All of the students involved deserve recognition for their hard work and exceptional talent, and I hope that they will all continue to enrich us with their artwork. I particularly want to congratulate Celynne, Grace, Madisen and Gigi on being named the winners, and look forward to enjoying their artwork in the Capitol and my offices throughout the coming year. Great job, everyone!”Ms. Hebron’s artwork was awarded first prize by a panel of local judges for her photograph entitled “This Too Shall Pass.” She attends Immaculate Heart High School in the 11th grade, and is from Hollywood – her artwork will hang in the Capitol for the next year. Second place was awarded to Grace Poole, who attends Crescenta Valley High School in the 12th grade and is from La Crescenta, for her acrylic painting titled “Questions.” Ms. Poole’s artwork will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, DC office for one year. Third place was awarded to Madisen Hunt, who attends Crescenta Valley High School in the 12th grade and is from Glendale, for her pen and ink drawing titled “Disintegrating Angel.” Her artwork will hang in Schiff’s Burbank District Office for one year. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Gigi Manukyan, who attends Burbank High School and is from Burbank, for her oil painting titled “Portrait of My Uncle.” The “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will be displayed in Schiff’s Hollywood District Office.The judges serving on the panel to award the different prizes included Nyla Arslanian, Monica Elayne Hicks-Jenkins and Kellye Nakahara Wallett:Nyla Arslanian is one of Hollywood’s strongest advocates for the arts. President of the Hollywood Arts Council since 1984, Nyla created many of the Council’s programs including the Children’s Festival of the Arts and its Project S.O.A.R., after school art workshops conducted in six of Hollywood’s Title 1 elementary schools. Through her leadership, the Council has brought the arts to over 15,000 elementary school children and nearly 70,000 at its annual Children’s Festival.Monica Elayne Hicks-Jenkins is a working artist, arts educator, Notary Public and pastry chef. She is the former Director of Development and Marketing at the McGroarty Arts Center in Tujunga, California. She has displayed work in Kinshasa as a part of the ART in Embassies Program from 2009 – 2013. Monica holds a B.A. in Studio Arts from the University of California, Irvine and an M.F.A. in Visual Art from the California Institute of the Arts. Kellye Nakahara Wallett, watercolor artist, is also known for her role as “Nurse Kellye” in the TV series “M*A*S*H.” Kellye’s collection “The Gardens of Pasadena” features historical landmarks and gardens in Pasadena, and her paintings are on display at Pasadena City Hall. Her painting “Koi” was selected by then-State Senator Jack Scott in 2001 to represent his district in an exhibition at the State Capitol. In 2008, Kellye was invited by Congressman Adam Schiff to paint a Christmas Ornament for the Official White House Christmas Tree in the Blue Room. Kellye served on Pasadena’s Arts and Culture Commission for 6 years and is currently the Artist in Residence for the Towne Singers.This year, there were 46 entries representing 19 high schools in the 28th Congressional District. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Recognition from Congressman Schiff. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition.
04.24.14	04.24.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on 99th Anniversary of Armenian Genocide Washington, DC –Today,Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide recognition resolution in Congress, released the following statement on the 99th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, after recently delivering a “open letter” to the Turkish people on the floor of the House of Representatives, urging them to acknowledge the genocide:"Ninety-nine years ago, the Ottoman Empire launched an all-out assault on its Armenian population. In a brutal campaign of massacres, forced marches, looting, and rape the Ottoman Turks sought to destroy an entire people. They did so in full view of American diplomats and journalists, who reported the details of the fate of the Armenians to a shocked public back home. “The monstrousness of the crime was so terrible that an entirely new word had to be invented to describe it – genocide. “The horrors of the Armenian genocide have been compounded by decades of denial by the government of Turkey, which even today stands by its absurd claim that historians are divided over what happened to the Armenians and that the issue must be studied further. No study is needed -- the facts are plain and evidence is abundant, including that in our own national archives and back issues of the world's newspapers. What is needed is an unequivocal acknowledgment of the truth by Turkey and a commitment to educate its own people on the facts of the genocide after nearly a century of denial and obfuscation."
04.14.14	04.14.14 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual Art Contest and Online Voting for "People's Choice" Winner Burbank, CA– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he will host the annual Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit for the 28th District, featuring high school students’ artwork from the region, on Sunday, April 27. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual contest, with submissions from across the country. The winner from each Congressional District has their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. In addition, Schiff has opened up the competition with a “People’s Choice” award, which will be decided through an online vote.To vote for the “People’s Choice,” constituents should go to Schiff’s website. Voting will be open from Monday, April 14th through Wednesday, April 23rd.“Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity displayed in the art I receive from students across the 28th Congressional District. This year, students, their families and constituents from across our community will be able to weigh – just like the esteemed panel of judges – and pick their favorite for the ‘People’s Choice’ winner online,” said Schiff.“I look forward to seeing all the entries and welcoming artists and their families at the exhibition. Go to my website and vote – I’m excited to see who my constituents pick as the winner.”The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition.The first place winner’s artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, the piece awarded second place will hang in the Congressman's Washington, D.C. office for one year, and the piece awarded third place will hang in his Burbank District Office for one year. The “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will be displayed in Schiff’s Hollywood District Office.The winners of the contest will be announced at the 28th Congressional High School Art Competition Forum & Exhibit on Sunday, April 27, 2014. All student participants will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition. The exhibit will be held at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge at Van de Kamp Hall located at 1418 Descanso Drive, La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011. Parking and admission to Van de Kamp Hall are free. Exhibit viewing will begin at 3:00 pm and the Forum and Awards Presentation will take place at 5:00 pm. Light refreshments will be served.To RSVP, please contact Teresa Lamb Simpson in Rep. Schiff’s Burbank district office at (818) 450 -2900 or (323) 315-5555.
04.10.14	04.10.14 Forty Members, Led by Rep. Schiff, Urge President to Quickly Declassify Senate Report on CIA Interrogation Program Washington, DC –Today, 40 Members of Congress, led by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), sent a letter to President Barack Obama, urging him to quickly declassify the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence report's conclusions on the CIA’s enhanced interrogation program, as well as the dissenting views and CIA response to the report. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence last week voted to declassify the committee’s report by a vote of 11-3, and the timeliness of its release will depend on the White House. In the letter, the Members write: “Together we stand, as we know you do, for the proposition that our nation should set an example for the world in humane treatment of detainees and abiding by the rule of law. Part of that commitment means acknowledging times when we failed to live up to our values and our laws, even when doing so is uncomfortable. We urge you to take this opportunity to cast some new light on a dark period in our history. The sooner the summary of the report and its findings are made public in their entirety, the sooner we can move on from this unfortunate chapter in our history.”The letter was signed by Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Luis Guttierez (D-IL), Ed Pastor (D-AZ), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Hank Johnson (D-GA), David Price (D-NC), Henry Waxman (D-CA), Michael Honda (D-CA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Donna Edwards (D-MD), John Garamendi (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), George Miller (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Sam Farr (D-CA), William Enyart (D-IL), Loyd Doggett (D-TX), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), John Conyers (D-MI), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), James McGovern (D-MA), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Dina Titus (D-NV), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), John Yarmuth (D-CA), Lois Capps (D-CA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Mark Pocan (D-WI), and James Moran (D-VA).The full letter is below:Dear Mr. President:We are writing in reference to the vote on April 3rd by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSCI) to send the executive summary of its committee report on enhanced interrogations to your Administration for declassification review. We respectfully urge you to order the declassification of the report’s executive summary and findings expeditiously and in their entirety. The American people need and deserve a full account of the actions that were taken in their name through the use of torture and enhanced interrogations on detainees. As you have said publicly, the report must be declassified “so that the American people can understand what happened in the past.”The report is a product of a thorough and professional investigation by committee staff, marking the culmination of five years of painstaking work. Committee staff examined millions of Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) documents to reconstruct a detailed history of the origins and practice of the enhanced interrogation program. According to Senator Dianne Feinstein, the Committee found that the "interrogations and the conditions of confinement at the CIA detention sites were far different and far more harsh than the way the CIA had described them to us.” It’s clear that years after the enhanced interrogation program ended, the American people and even the vast majority of Members of Congress remain in the dark.The analysis reportedly found that Members of Congress, including those on the Intelligence Committees, were misled about the nature of the techniques used on detainees and their effectiveness in obtaining useful intelligence, if accurate, is extremely troubling. Congress cannot perform its constitutionally-mandated oversight role if it doesn’t receive accurate and timely information from the Executive Branch, including from elements of the Intelligence Community. It is vital that Congress receive a full accounting of any discrepancies in what we were told with regard to detainee treatment and the intelligence gathered and what actually took place.The Senate Committee also voted to declassify dissenting views filed by members of the Minority. We ask that these views, as well as a CIA response to the report, be quickly declassified as well, so that the public can have both perspectives on the legality and effectiveness of the enhanced interrogation program.Together we stand, as we know you do, for the proposition that our nation should set an example for the world in humane treatment of detainees and abiding by the rule of law. Part of that commitment means acknowledging times when we failed to live up to our values and our laws, even when doing so is uncomfortable. We urge you to take this opportunity to cast some new light on a dark period in our history. The sooner the summary of the report and its findings are made public in their entirety, the sooner we can move on from this unfortunate chapter in our history.Thank you for your consideration of our request.Sincerely,
04.03.14	04.03.14 Rep. Schiff and 25 West Coast Members Urge Funding to Construct Earthquake Early Warning System Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) was joined by 25 Members from California, Washington and Oregon in sending a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging them to fully fund an earthquake early warning system. A limited system developed by Caltech, UC-Berkeley and University of Washington, in conjunction with the United State Geological Survey (USGS), has already been deployed and has proven that the early warning technology is sound. Schiff’s letter requests additional funding for the Earthquake Hazards Program in USGS to kickstart the process of building out the early warning system so we can be ready for the next big quake.It is estimated that deploying a full system of sensors along the West Coast would cost approximately $16.1 million a year to build, operate and maintain. Schiff was joined by Representatives Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Alan S. Lowenthal (D-CA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Adam Smith (D-WA) and Michael Honda (D-CA). “Every few months, we’re reminded about our vulnerability with tremors, earthquakes and aftershocks rattling our homes and businesses,” said Schiff. “It’s absolutely critical that the U.S., and the West Coast in particular, invest in an early warning system so that lives can be saved and infrastructure can be protected. Even a few seconds of warning before the next ‘big one’ will allow people to seek cover, automatically slow or stop trains, pause surgeries and more – and the benefits of this small investment now will be paid back many times over after the first damaging quake.”The full letter sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies is below:Dear Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member Moran:As you craft the Fiscal Year 2015 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, we respectfully request that you provide the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) with an additional $16.1 million for the construction, operation and maintenance of an Earthquake Early Warning System.The USGS, in collaboration with Caltech, UC Berkeley, and the University of Washington, has developed an Earthquake Early Warning system that detects waves radiating from the epicenter of a quake and would provide people with several to tens of seconds of warning in California, and up to few minutes in Washington and Oregon through their phones, computers and other media. With advanced notice, people can take cover, automated systems can be triggered to slow down trains and manage the power grid, doctors can pause surgeries, and more. The technology has been tested and proven to work effectively.An Earthquake Early Warning system along the West Coast would cost $16.1 million per year to construct, operate and maintain. FEMA has estimated that earthquakes cost the United States, averaged over the long term, more than $5 billion a year. This common-sense investment will save lives, protect businesses, and could make a real difference in more rapid recovery for local communities, the federal government and the economy as a whole.While we cannot predict when and where the next major earthquake will hit, we must do all we can to prepare ourselves so that we can mitigate the injuries, destruction, and chaos as much as possible. We appreciate your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you.
04.02.14	04.02.14 Reps. Adam Schiff and Walter Jones Introduce Bipartisan Bill Requiring Annual Reporting on Drone Casualties Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a member of the House Intelligence Committee, and Walter Jones (R-NC), a member of the House Committee on Armed Services, introduced legislation – the Targeted Lethal Force Transparency Act – to require an annual report on the number of combatants and civilians killed or injured annually by strikes from remotely piloted aircraft, also known as drones. The requirement is retroactive for five years so that trends can be assessed. It also requires that the report include the definitions of combatants and civilian noncombatants used. This simple bill would increase the transparency and accountability in drone operations, a goal that has been endorsed by President Obama, CIA Director Brennan, and others in the intelligence community.“An annual report will provide a modest, but important, measure of transparency and oversight regarding the use of drones,” said Rep. Schiff. “Despite our best efforts to ensure to a near-certainty that no civilians will be killed or injured, sometimes strikes do result in civilian casualties. We must be more transparent and accountable, both with ourselves and with the world, and narrow the perception gap between what really happens, and what is reported or assumed.”“Our government’s use of drones for targeted killings should be subject to intense scrutiny and oversight,” said Rep. Jones. “I believe this legislation is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased to join Congressman Schiff in this effort.” The legislation would explicitly exclude strikes that take place in Afghanistan or other theatres of conflict. Schiff previously offered an amendment to the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 during a markup of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence that would have increased the transparency and accountability of the use of drones. This legislation is similar to an amendment sponsored by Senator Dianne Feinstein in the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence which was included in the Senate’s FY14 Intelligence Authorization Act.Steven W. Hawkins, the Executive Director of Amnesty International USA, stated: "Excessive secrecy about drone strikes has stalled accountability, damaged US credibility on human rights, and set a dangerous example for countries around the world that are acquiring drone technology. This bill will provide all members of Congress and the public with basic facts and figures, helping the debate on this policy move beyond speculation and secrecy."
04.02.14	04.02.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Returning from Congressional Trip to Ukraine – "We Must Do More to Respond" Washington, DC –Last night, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, returned from a congressional delegation trip (CODEL) to Ukraine and Lithuania. During the trip, he assessed the situation on the ground in Ukraine, talked with government, military and intelligence officials, attended a NATO conference in Lithuania, and discussed the concerns in the Baltic states with the situation in Ukraine and Crimea.“In light of the brazen violation of international law and Ukraine’s sovereignty in Crimea, the continued large presence of Russian troops on Ukraine’s border and the threat to other nations in the region, the U.S. and international community must do more to respond. Even in the absence of further Russian incursions into Ukraine, Russia’s ongoing efforts to destabilize the country’s eastern regions through political interference, clandestine activities and massive propaganda campaign compel us to strengthen the sanctions regime, provide greater intelligence support and increase assistance to combat Russian propaganda.“Stronger sanctions against Russia and more meaningful assistance to Ukraine is essential not only to reaffirm our support for state sovereignty, territorial integrity and the rule of law, but to honor our commitments under the Budapest Memorandum. If the assurances of that agreement are to have substance, they must mean more than the actions the international community has thus far undertaken. Otherwise, some nations may choose nuclear proliferation as a better guarantor of their territorial integrity than the force of international agreement and support. Russia must be made to feel a real economic cost to its belligerence or we encourage further reckless adventurism. The U.S. and its partners should also amp up NATO support in the region to reassure our allies that we stand firmly behind Article 5’s guarantee of collective security that is the linchpin of NATO’s existence.”
03.25.14	03.25.14 Rep. Schiff Applauds Administration Decision to End Bulk Collection, Require Court Approval Prior to Seeking Telephone Metadata From Providers Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, commended the Administration for taking another important step to fulfill the promises made by the President in his speech earlier this year to reform the metadata program. Responding to reports that the White House will soon end bulk collection and allow the carriers to retain their own data, Schiff stated:"The decision by the White House that they will transition away from bulk collection of phone records and go to a model where prior court approval is required before seeking metadata from telephone companies is a very important step forward for reform. This model is far more protective of the privacy interests of the American people and will still allow the intelligence agencies to gather the vital information they need to protect the public."The Administration proposal appears to closely track legislation Rep. Schiff introduced in January, the Telephone Metadata Reform Act, which allows the government to query the data held by phone companies based on a judicially approved order, absent exigency, specific to that phone number or "selector." Rep. Schiff also commended House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers and Ranking Member Dutch Ruppersberger for their decision to introduce legislation ending the bulk collection of metadata:"I applaud the decision by Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Ruppersberger to end bulk collection and their thoughtful work on a new reform proposal. I look forward to working with them to ensure timely court approval of requests for metadata, and a vigorous adversarial process before the FISA court.”
03.24.14	03.24.14 Schiff, Feinstein and Los Angeles Congressional Delegation to FAA: Yet to See Any Progress on Helicopter Noise Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) sent a letter to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta saying that they have yet to see any demonstrated or significant progress towards reducing helicopter noise nearly a year after their initial report. The letter comes on the heels of a meeting with the FAA in which the agency failed to produce a plan to meet its Congressional mandate to reduce helicopter noise, failed to identify quantifiable metrics to measure helicopter noise throughout the LA basin, and failed to study the entire LA basin, instead focusing on small study areas.Schiff and Feinstein sent this letter along with other Members of the Los Angeles Congressional delegation including Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Reps. Henry Waxman, Brad Sherman, Karen Bass, Tony Cardenas, and Alan Lowenthal.The full letter is below: The Honorable Michael P. HuertaAdministratorFederal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta:We write to express our strong disappointment with the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) lack of demonstrated progress on the steps outlined in FAA’s May 2013 Report on the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative. We have yet to see the FAA demonstrate significant progress in undertaking the six actions items, which are also laid out in H.R. 3547 – the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law No: 113-76).It has been more than nine months since the FAA identified action items it would undertake and support to mitigate helicopter noise in Los Angeles County. However, to date, the FAA has only produced one update, dated January 30, 2014. This update did not provide a detailed schedule, as we had previously requested, and lacks metrics on how progress will be demonstrated. Furthermore, we are concerned that the effort heavily relies on volunteer stakeholders to complete the tasks the FAA has committed to, and which it is now also mandated by law to carry out within a year.We are also increasingly concerned that the FAA has fallen short of a comprehensive, county-wide approach, and instead decided to focus on localized areas within Los Angeles County. While we understand that the FAA will identify additional areas at future date, helicopter noise is a problem that afflicts all Los Angeles County residents, not just the few in the target areas. We urge the FAA to take a thoughtful approach that will take into account the concerns of residents throughout the County.We recognize the FAA’s assertion that the best approach to mitigate helicopter noise on the ground is through voluntary measures, and expect the FAA to demonstrate the on-the-ground impact of this approach. If the FAA fails to do so through quantifiable metrics, we expect the agency to begin a regulatory process before the end of January 2015.Los Angeles County residents have been plagued by frequent and disruptive helicopter noise for far too long and deserve relief. We appreciate your work and prompt attention to this matter. Please do not hesitate to contact our offices if you have any questions or concerns.Sincerely,###
03.19.14	03.19.14 Rep. Schiff, Colleagues Send Letter to President Urging Executive Order Prohibiting Discrimination Against LGBT Americans Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and 195 House and Senate colleagues sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to sign an executive order banning contractors from receiving federal contracts unless they have a policy prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Such a step, which could be implemented without Congressional action, would extend protections against employment discrimination on the basis of LGBT status to millions of additional Americans. As a Vice-Chair of the LGBT Equality Caucus, Rep. Schiff joined with the Caucus leadership to gather support for the letter.Schiff led a similar letter to the President in 2013 and is an original co-sponsor of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). Schiff stated: “While the House leadership continues to drag its feet by refusing to bring the Employment Non-Discrimination Act -- which passed with strong bipartisan support in the Senate, -- to the floor for a vote, it’s time for the President to act. Last year, I led a letter to the President asking him to issue an Executive Order prohibiting federal contractors from discriminating based on sexual orientation and gender identity. This letter renews our efforts and sends a strong signal that it’s time to use all avenues to fight discrimination against LGBT Americans, with or without Congress.”The full letter, sent today, is below: The PresidentThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President,We are writing to urge you to fulfill the promise in your State of the Union address to make this a “year of action” and build upon the momentum of 2013 by signing an executive order banning federal contractors from engaging in employment discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) Americans. As you have said before, “now is the time to end this kind of discrimination, not enable it.”As we continue to work towards final passage of the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) with strong bipartisan support, we urge you to take action now to protection millions of workers across the country from the threat of discrimination simply because of who they are or who they love. We are committed to doing all that we can in Congress to get ENDA to your desk this year; however, there is no reason you cannot immediately act by taking this important step. This executive order would provide LGBT people with another avenue in the federal government they could turn to if they were the victim of employment discrimination by a federal contractor. When combined with ENDA, these non-discrimination protections would parallel those that have been in place for decades on the basis of race, sex and religion.An executive order covering LGBT employees would be in line with a bipartisan, decades-long commitment to eradicating taxpayer-funded discrimination in the workplace. In 1941, President Roosevelt prohibited discrimination in defense contracts on the bases of race, creed, color, or national origin. In subsequent executive orders, Presidents Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson expanded these protections to ensure that taxpayer dollars are not used to discriminate.In addition, most of the largest government contractors – companies like Boeing, Raytheon, and Lockheed Martin – have LGBT non-discrimination policies in place. They adopted them because business leaders recognize that discrimination is bad for the bottom line. Finally, time is of the essence. Even with an executive order in place, full implementation of these protections will require regulations to be developed and finalized, a process that will take many months, if not longer, to fully put in place.Issuing an executive order prohibiting discrimination against LGBT workers in federal contracts would build on the significant progress for LGBT rights made during your time as President and would further your legacy as a champion for LGBT equality. We urge you to act now to prevent irrational, taxpayer-funded workplace discrimination against LGBT Americans.Sincerely,
03.11.14	03.11.14 Rep. Schiff: Administration Must Provide Post-9/11 Detention and Interrogation Report to Congress and American Public Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after a speech delivered in the Senate by Intelligence Committee Chairwoman Dianne Feinstein:“The House and Senate Intelligence Committees have long worked closely with the Intelligence Community to ensure that not only are we protecting our country from possible attack, but also ensuring that our civil liberties and principles endure, even when we face threats at home and abroad. Now, the delicate balance between the Intelligence Community and its congressional overseers has been threatened by what can only be described as unacceptable interference with the constitutionally crucial oversight mission of the Intelligence Committees. “Senator Feinstein’s speech today about possible abuse – over a report critical of the detention and interrogation program of the CIA – raises deeply troubling concerns about CIA conduct in connection with this investigation. For the past six years I have served on the Committee, my colleagues and I have enjoyed a strong working relationship with the Intelligence Community, but that relationship is undermined if we cannot receive access to any and all documents necessary for our investigations, and expect timely and complete answers from those we oversee. And that relationship requires trust – in both directions – for the process to be effective. That trust would be seriously eroded if CIA attempted to withhold information critical of its interrogation program, or improperly tried to scrutinize the Senate committee's database or work product.“It is also essential that we do not let these allegations obscure the larger issue of whether Americans deserve a full accounting of the detention and interrogations under taken after September 11th. It is a continuing source of frustration that even Members of the House Intelligence Committee have been refused access to the Senate’s report. Not only should access be provided to Members of Congress, but a declassified version should be made available to the public so we can have a full and informed debate.”
03.06.14	03.06.14 Rep. Schiff Speech in Support of Legislation to Assist Ukraine: "Cold War is Over, and Territorial Aggression by Russia Will Not Resurrect Its Empire" Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, voted for and spoke on the House Floor in support of bipartisan legislation, H.R. 4152, which would provide for the cost of loan guarantees for Ukraine. The legislation passed the House this afternoon.The full speech can be viewed here.“Mr. Speaker, I stand today with the people of Ukraine and in strong support of this legislation, which will provide the Administration with additional and immediate flexibility to assist Ukraine, and I look forward to working on further ways to assist Ukraine in the appropriations process.“But this effort cannot be just about helping Ukraine; it must also be about reversing Russian aggression and curbing Vladimir Putin’s revanchist policies in Russia’s ‘Near Abroad.’ President Obama's action this morning – to cut off access to assets and place travel restrictions on those involved in the violation of Ukraine's sovereignty – is a positive first step, but the pressure must be increased in the coming days if Russia fails to reverse course.“I support a slate of economic sanctions led by the United States and Europe to isolate Russia’s economy and its leadership, so that Putin is made to understand that his violation of international law and the sovereignty of his neighbors will not be tolerated. “The collapse of the Soviet Empire was one of the seminal events of the latter half of the Twentieth Century. The Cold War is over and territorial aggression by Russia will not resurrect its empire, but only diminish its standing in the world and the future of its people.”
03.04.14	03.04.14 Rep. Schiff – President Obama's Budget an Improvement for Planetary Science But Still Insufficient, Greater Investment Needed for Mars, Europa Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), a member of the Appropriations Committee’s Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee, released the following statement after the President’s budget included $1.28 billion for planetary science, an amount he called better, but still insufficient to maintain America’s leadership:“The budget proposal for planetary science is significantly better than in past years, but is still far below the levels approved by Congress and isn’t sufficient to meet the priorities laid out in the decadal survey – which put the highest priorities on Mars 2020, a Europa flagship mission, and the Discovery and New Frontiers missions. While I’m pleased to see the budget continues to provide funding for the Mars Exploration Program, in particular the Mars 2020 mission, and recognizes the importance of a future mission to Europa, a far greater investment will be necessary to ensure America’s preeminence in planetary science.“The Administration should recommit to keeping the Mars 2020 project on track and on time, and to a far-reaching Europa mission. Thanks to the brilliant scientists at JPL, we have the unique ability to design, fly and land sophisticated robots on our planetary neighbors – and if these projects are disrupted, we might lose this perishable and incredibly specialized talent pool. America’s leadership on planetary science is not something we should surrender, and is something that my colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee have supported repeatedly. I look forward to working with my colleagues, once again, to restore adequate funding to planetary science and only wish it wasn’t necessary to do so year after year.”Below are the previous budget requests and enacted numbers for NASA, planetary science and Mars exploration:AgencyFY 2012 RequestFY 2012 EnactedFY 2013 RequestFY 2013 Enacted*FY 2014 RequestFY 2014 OmnibusNASA18,724.317,770.017,711.417,526.717,715.417,646.5Science5,016.85,073.74,911.25,047.45,017.85,151.2Planetary Science1,540.71,501.41,192.31,388.51,217.51,345.0 Mars Exploration602.2587.0360.8442.4234.0288.0
02.28.14	02.28.14 Rep. Schiff on Ukraine – Congress Stands Ready to Impose Substantial Costs on Russia for Violations on Ukrainian Sovereignty Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement after President Obama briefed the nation on developments in Ukraine warning Russia that "there will be costs" to Russian intervention in Ukraine:"I applaud President Obama's strong statement of solidarity with the Ukrainian people, and his warning against any Russian violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity. Congress – on a strong bipartisan basis – stands ready to work with the President and our European allies to impose substantial costs on Russia for any violation of Ukrainian sovereignty. Every people have the right to self-determination and we support Ukrainian aspirations for democracy and the rule of law."Earlier today, Rep. Schiff spoke with MSNBC’s Kristen Welker, saying: “Unfortunately, we are dealing with a bully in Russia that more than willing to bully its way to try to create the kind of government environment and ally it wants in the Ukraine, no matter what the Ukrainian people want.”
02.18.14	02.18.14 Rep. Schiff To Host Capitol Hill Event Honoring America's Relief Efforts To Victims of Armenian Genocide Washington, DC – On March 3, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Resolution (H.Res.227), will host a Capitol Hill event honoring America's relief efforts to the victims of the Armenian Genocide, a campaign that helped launch a century of unparalleled U.S. leadership in meeting humanitarian needs around the world. This event will serve to educate Capitol Hill lawmakers, staff and the community about America’s efforts to help Armenians after they were targeted for genocide, and the continuing need to provide relief to those suffering around the globe.The spirit of American care and compassion for the victims of the Armenian Genocide is perhaps best symbolized by the Armenian Orphan Rug, a work of art crafted by young survivors and gifted to the White House by the Near East Relief – a charitable organization inspired by President Wilson and chartered by an Act of Congress. Regrettably, this symbol of American generosity has yet to be released for display by the White House, which caused the cancellation of a planned Smithsonian Institution exhibit of the Rug in December of 2013. It is our hope that the White House will agree to provide the rug for this event, but in the absence of a commitment, the event will go forward nonetheless. “America’s role in helping Armenian survivors of the first genocide of the 20th Century is a story worth telling and remembering,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “It’s also important to remind policymakers of the significant role the United States played in assisting the victims of the Ottoman Empire during the dark days of World War I. The Armenian Genocide, which occurred almost 100 years ago, was an event of such catastrophic significance that all nations have a duty to educate their citizens on what took place. Events like this – highlighting America’s important humanitarian role – can only help to convince my colleagues of the importance of finally recognizing the Armenian Genocide.”In a letter to the President last year urging the display of the rug, Schiff and 32 other Members of Congress wrote: “The Armenian Orphan Rug is a piece of American history and it belongs to the American people. For over a decade, Armenian American organizations have sought the public display of the rug and have requested the White House and the State Department grant their request on numerous occasions. Unfortunately, Armenian Americans have yet to have their requests granted. We urge you to release this American treasure for exhibition.”The Armenian Orphan Rug measures 11' 7" x 18' 5" and is comprised of 4,404,206 individual knots. It took Armenian girls in the Ghazir Orphanage of Near East Relief 10 months to weave. The rug was delivered to President Coolidge on December 4, 1925, in time for Christmas, with a label on the back of the rug, which reads "IN GOLDEN RULE GRATITUDE TO PRESIDENT COOLIDGE." According to Missak Kelechian, an expert on this topic, the gift of the Armenian Orphan Rug was widely covered in U.S. media, including in the New York Times in 1925 and the Washington Post in 1926. Additional information about the history of the Armenian Orphan Rug is available in Dr. Hagop Martin Deranian's book, "President Coolidge and the Armenian Orphan Rug," published on October 20, 2013, by the Armenian Cultural Foundation.More information about the speakers and event will be available in coming weeks, and it is currently scheduled for Monday, March 3rd at 5:00 pm in 2103 Rayburn House Office Building (subject to change).
02.18.14	02.18.14 Rep. Schiff Announces First Annual Congressional Student STEM Challenge – Students To Build App Burbank, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced the launch the first annual congressional science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) academic competition, the House Student App Challenge, for the 28th Congressional District. The theme for the first year of the competition is Computer Science; challenging students to develop an application (“app”).Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM education fields. Throughout the competition period, participating students will be provided opportunities to engage with various STEM educational partners, tech entrepreneurs, and tech experts located in the District to mentor and assist them with their app development.“This challenge is an extraordinary opportunity for students to put their technical skills to the test and try something different,” said Schiff. “In the next decade, the U.S. economy is expected to add over 8 million new STEM jobs, but face a shortage of graduates trained in those fields. This contest will help address that challenge by encouraging students to create their own app and pursue an education and career in STEM fields. Hopefully, we find some wonderful entrepreneurs and inventors in our community!”The House Student STEM Challenge is open to all high school students who live in or attend high school in the 28th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process during the competition submission period between February 1, 2014 and April 30, 2014.More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found here on Rep. Schiff’s website or at http://studentappchallenge.house.gov/.
02.11.14	02.11.14 Schiff, Homeowners to FAA on Helicopter Noise – Your Timeline is Not Good Enough Washington, DC – Almost six months after Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and other Los Angeles area lawmakers, including Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), sent a letter asking for a timeline to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)’s Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative, the agency finally responded to the Los Angeles lawmakers (letter can be found here). This comes on the heels of legislation passed last month requiring the FAA to act within the year to reduce helicopter noise through voluntary measures, or be forced to put in place regulations to reduce it.However, in their answer, the FAA did not produce a timeline for action, and instead of studying the entire Los Angeles basin, designated small study areas – Torrance, Hollywood and the Cahuenga Pass – that are not sufficient to understand the full problem affecting homeowners and businesses. Additionally, instead of designing and implementing a helicopter noise complaint reporting system, the FAA is requiring the homeowners, helicopter operators and other stakeholders to identify a system themselves – something that volunteer members of homeowner and pilot associations do not have the technical expertise to accomplish on their own. Finally, the lack of more meaningful progress to date and the indeterminate timeline going forward indicate the FAA is very unlikely to meet its statutory deadline of progress by the end of the year. “While I appreciate the engagement that the FAA has had with stakeholders in Los Angeles, it's progress in bringing about relief to residents has been painfully and unacceptably slow,” said Rep. Schiff. “By law, the FAA will be required to regulate helicopter noise if they cannot demonstrate the success of voluntary measures by the end of the year. The ‘timeline’ just released by the FAA casts great doubt on their ability to do so, and makes it far more likely regulation will be required.”“The Los Angeles Area Helicopter Noise Coalition has been working diligently with the FAA and helicopter pilots and operators to find ways to reduce helicopter noise across Los Angeles,” said Bob Anderson, President of the Los Angeles Area Helicopter Noise Coalition (LAAHNC), and Richard Root, the coalition’s vice president. “While the FAA’s letter to congressional leaders states that ‘good progress has been made …’, the reality is that a number of meetings have been held without much real progress being made. The community has offered many suggestions for tangible solutions to reduce noise, but the FAA and pilots have not embraced these due to cost and other concerns.”Last year, Schiff and other members of the Los Angeles delegation introduced legislation, the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act, and encouraged the FAA to act independently of legislation to reduce helicopter noise in Los Angeles. Following a lengthy study, the FAA released their report on the Los Angeles airspace, urging voluntary measures over a regulatory approach, which many homeowners and lawmakers felt was an insufficient response. Senator Feinstein and Rep. Schiff successfully included language in the omnibus spending bill, which was signed into law, that would require the FAA to develop regulations related to the impact of helicopter use on the quality of life of LA County residents within one year unless the FAA can demonstrate the effectiveness of the six voluntary action items in the helicopter noise report. Efforts to include language in the omnibus were supported by the LAHNC.
02.07.14	02.07.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on FISA Court Approval of Limits on NSA Telephone Metadata Program Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance (FISA) Court approved President Obama’s request to require National Security Agency (NSA) officials obtain a court order first and limit the number of “hops”:“The announcement that the FISA Court has agreed to a motion to modify the telephone metadata program is an important step on the road to reform, and consistent with the outline the President set out in his January 17th speech. By requiring a court order for each search and by limiting the number of hops allowed, the privacy of Americans will be better protected.“Congress must act quickly to further restructure the program as the President's review group and the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (PCLOB) have recommended. This can best be accomplished by ending bulk collection and having the phone companies hold their own data to be searched based upon a judicial finding. Such a system would provide the same basic capabilities as bulk collection, while being far more protective of our privacy. I have introduced legislation to make this change a reality and hope that the Congress and Administration can move forward without delay.”Background:Rep. Schiff has introduced the Telephone Metadata Reform Act, which would restructure the telephone metadata program by specifically removing call records from the types of information the Government can obtain under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. Instead, records would be obtained on a case by case basis from the telephone companies subject to approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Schiff has also introduced several pieces of reform legislation in addition to proposing changes to the phone metadata program. First, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Second, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Finally, Schiff introduced legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.
02.06.14	02.06.14 Rep. Schiff Announces 2013-2014 Nominations to U.S. Service Academies Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he has nominated fourteen students from the 28th Congressional District for appointments to U.S. service academies for the class of 2018. Four of the five United States service academies require a Congressional nomination in order to receive an appointment.“Each one of these students has compiled an outstanding resume of accomplishments, excelled in extracurricular activities and sports, and demonstrated excellence in academics,” said Rep. Schiff. “These students are deeply committed to serving our country, and I am extremely proud to have nominated these young men and women for our U.S. Service Academies. I’m confident they will be among the future leaders of our country.” Below is a list of the students Rep. Schiff has nominated:Shane Michael Bell (Sun Valley resident, La Cañada High School) – Merchant Marine AcademyGabriel John Thomas Collison (La Crescenta resident, Crescenta Valley High School) – Naval AcademyMadison Sky Stefaniuk DiDomenicantonio (Los Feliz resident, Ribet Academy) – Naval AcademyRicardo Antonio Francia, III (Sun Valley resident, St. Francis High School) – Air Force AcademyBrittney Alison Gregg (Glendale resident, Glendale Adventist Academy) – Air Force AcademyGregory Grigoryan (Glendale resident, Clark Magnet High School) -- Naval Academy Joseph Chance Mahler (Hollywood Hills resident, Flintridge Preparatory High School) – Naval Academy and Merchant Marine AcademyAaron Jeffrey Mellstrom (La Cañada Flintridge resident, La Cañada High School) – Military Academy and Air Force AcademyAudra Yejin Paik (Glendale resident, Hoover High School) – Naval Academy and Air Force AcademyArron Joon Sung Pak (Glendale resident, Glendale Adventist Academy) – Air Force AcademyCollin Spenser Ramani (La Cañada Flintridge resident, Loyola High School) – Naval AcademyHenry Keebo Sim (La Cañada Flintridge resident, Crescenta Valley High School) – Military AcademyMorgan Lee Welch (Sun Valley resident, Verdugo Hills High School) – Naval Academy and Air Force AcademyNathan Luke Williams (Tujunga resident, Granada Hills Charter High School) – Naval Academy and Military AcademyThe four academies requiring a Congressional nomination are the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, does not require a Congressional nomination. All five academies offer young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked, nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing them for an officer's commission in the armed forces.Students interested in applying to a Service Academy next year, should call Congressman Schiff’s District Office at 818-450-2900 or 323-315-5555, or visit https://schiff.house.gov to obtain an application form. The application deadline for next year’s class is November 14, 2014.
01.30.14	01.30.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on Retirement of Rep. Henry Waxman Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement following Rep. Henry Waxman’s announcement that he will retire at the end of this term in Congress:"Henry Waxman will go down as one of the giants of Congress – smart, strategically savvy, dogged at oversight and a power to be reckoned with – his hand can be seen in almost every domestic achievement of the last few decades. Along with the departure of Howard Berman last year, California and indeed the whole Congress, have lost two of the strongest pillars of policy-making in the domestic and foreign policy realms. I wish Henry every success in the future and while I am glad that he will be free to pursue his other ambitions, he will leave behind an unfillable void in the House."
01.29.14	01.29.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on President's State of the Union Address Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the President concluded his State of the Union Address before Congress:“Tonight, the President challenged Congress to join him in an effort to reinvigorate the American Dream by expanding opportunity and prosperity for all our citizens. While he took action today raising the minimum wage to over $10 for federal contractors, it’s up to Congress to raise it for the millions of other workers, and ensure that everyone has the ability to raise a family and join the middle class.“I was pleased that the President challenged Congress to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill that will bring millions out of the shadows, allow DREAMers to earn citizenship, and provide a legal path forward for undocumented immigrants in the country.“Finally, the President deserves a lot of credit – he’s ended the war in Iraq, bringing to an end to the war in Afghanistan, and is trying to avoid a war in Iran by seeking a diplomatic solution. I hope that Congress will give the Administration the time it needs to determine whether it can achieve a final deal with Iran to end their nuclear weapons programs.”###
01.29.14	01.29.14 Rep. Schiff Calls on Secretary Kerry to Make Addressing Comfort Women a Diplomatic Priority for State Department in Discussions with Japan Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ) and Scott Garrett (R-NJ) sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging him to address issues related to the comfort women with the government of Japan. Earlier this month, the Fiscal Year 2014 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Appropriations Bill, which was signed into law as part of the omnibus appropriations bill, made a similar appeal. In the letter, the Representatives write: “As you are aware, it is estimated that more than 200,000 women throughout Asia were forced into sexual slavery by the Imperial Armed Forces of Japan during World War II. These women—some as young as 14-years-old—were known as “comfort women.” The Imperial Armed Forces often lured innocent women from their homes under false pretenses, and even resorted to kidnapping, to serve as forced prostitutes serving the Japanese military. With the remaining survivors now well into their eighties, these women deserve to hear a formal apology from the Japanese government nearly 70 years after the end of the war. In fact, to bring global attention to this historically important human rights and women’s rights issue, the House also passed H.Res.121 in 2007… We recognize that this issue is deeply important to our constituents and should be a diplomatic priority for the Department of State. As such, we request that you address this matter with the Japanese government and encourage the recognition of these tragic violations of basic human dignity.”The full letter is below: January 29, 2014 The Honorable John F. KerrySecretary of StateU.S. Department of State2201 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20520 Dear Mr. Secretary:We write today to bring your attention to the committee report (113-185) accompanying the Fiscal Year 2014 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Appropriations Bill, which was signed into law on January 17, 2014 as part of Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014. Specifically, the committee report states:The Committee notes the passage of H. Res. 121 in the House of Representatives on July 30, 2007 and urges the Secretary of State to encourage the Government of Japan to address the issues raised in the resolution.As you are aware, it is estimated that more than 200,000 women throughout Asia were forced into sexual slavery by the Imperial Armed Forces of Japan during World War II. These women—some as young as 14-years-old—were known as “comfort women.” The Imperial Armed Forces often lured innocent women from their homes under false pretenses, and even resorted to kidnapping, to serve as forced prostitutes serving the Japanese military. With the remaining survivors now well into their eighties, these women deserve to hear a formal apology from the Japanese government nearly 70 years after the end of the war. In fact, to bring global attention to this historically important human rights and women’s rights issue, the House also passed H.Res.121 in 2007.As members of Congress who represent districts where memorials to comfort women are located, including Hackensack, NJ, Palisades Park, NJ and Glendale, CA, we recognize that this issue is deeply important to our constituents and should be a diplomatic priority for the Department of State. As such, we request that you address this matter with the Japanese government and encourage the recognition of these tragic violations of basic human dignity.
01.29.14	01.29.14 Rep. Schiff Solicits Nominations for Annual Woman of the Year Award Burbank, CA –Every March, in recognition of Women’s History Month, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honors outstanding women from his district. The 28th Congressional District includes the cities and communities of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood.“Recipients of the ‘Woman of the Year Award’ come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region,” Rep. Schiff said. “I urge constituents to contact my office and let us know about some of the admirable women in our communities by nominating them for this year’s award.”Constituents are encouraged to nominate women in their community — while there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life in our community. Nominations can be sent to Mary Hovagimian (mary.hovagimian@mail.house.gov). Nominations should include a written description of your nominee’s accomplishments, the home address, phone number and e-mail of the nominee, and the nominator's name and contact information.The deadline for nominations is February 21, 2014.
01.28.14	01.28.14 Rep. Schiff Floor Speech Previewing the State of the Union: President and Congress Must Address Inequality Gap Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) previewed the President’s State of the Union address on the House Floor, urging his colleagues and the President to take up the challenge of the growing inequality gap, first by extending emergency unemployment insurance for those still looking for work, and raising the minimum wage:“We should never seek to punish success or, as some describe it, ‘soak the rich,’ but we must take steps to address the problem of growing inequality, both in the short-term and over the longer-term as well. I believe that there are two things that Congress and the President can do to give Americans in the middle and those who aspire to join it the chance to move up.“First, we need to extend emergency unemployment assistance for those who are still looking for work and cannot find a job on their own. The weekly litany of those who are losing benefits is disheartening – we must not turn our back on our fellow Americans. Second, we need to raise the minimum wage nationwide and it is shameful that it has been five years since the last increase. In fact, according to one study, the minimum wage today is actually worth $2 less than in 1968. Raising the minimum to just over $10 as I support, would push millions of hard-working Americans out of poverty and stimulate economic activity throughout the country…“Tonight the President will challenge us to join him in an effort to reinvigorate the American Dream for another generation. Let us join him in that sacred task.”Watch the speech below, or click here: Full text of his speech is below:This evening, from the dais behind me, President Obama will deliver his State of the Union message. And while there are hopeful signs and a brightening of the economic outlook for the country as a whole, the President will almost certainly concentrate on the battles ahead.Even as America struggles to shake off the effects of the worst downturn since the Great Depression, our economy and our society are being challenged by a yawning inequality gap that affects tens of millions of American families and threatens to erode the underpinnings of our social contract.Last fall, economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty released an analysis of 2012 tax returns and found that the top ten percent of American earners took more than half of the country’s total income in 2012, the highest level ever recorded. The top one percent received more than 20% of all the income earned by Americans, a level not seen since 1928, the year before the stock market crash and the beginning of the depression.Top earners have also recovered more quickly over the last three years as their wages and investments have recouped value at a much brisker clip than those of the rest of Americans. Inequality has also been a persistent political theme in the last few years, here and around the world and helped to launch the Occupy Wall Street movement. Last year, Pope Francis spoke out against what he termed “an economy of exclusion,” while New York City’s new mayor, Bill deBlasio, won election by highlighting inequality there. President Obama, himself, made expanding opportunity a major theme in a speech in December and he has discussed the issue at length in his past two State of the Union addresses. I expect him to return to the theme tonight and in the coming months as the 113th Congress as we prepare to go to the polls in November.But if there is consensus that an overly-high concentration of wealth spawns a host of economic, social and political ills, but that agreement has not fostered a concerted strategy on expanding opportunity and closing the wealth gap.America has always rewarded hard work and the possibility for a better life has been part of the attraction for generations of immigrants and others struggling to climb the economic ladder. But economic mobility, as a recent study from Harvard and Cal demonstrates, varies greatly within the United States. And while economic mobility has not changed significantly over time, it is consistently lower in the U.S. than in most developed countriesWe should never seek to punish success or, as some describe it, “soak the rich,” but we must take steps to address the problem of growing inequality, both in the short-term and over the longer-term as well. I believe that there are two things that Congress and the President can do to give Americans in the middle and those who aspire to join it the chance to move up.First, we need to extend emergency unemployment assistance for those who are still looking for work and cannot find a job on their own. The weekly litany of those who are losing benefits is disheartening – we must not turn our back on our fellow Americans.Second, we need to raise the minimum wage nationwide and it is shameful that it has been five years since the last increase. In fact, according to one study, the minimum wage today is actually worth $2 less than in 1968. Raising the minimum to just over $10 as I support, would push millions of hard-working Americans out of poverty and stimulate economic activity throughout the country.These two steps could be part of a short-term solution that stops the bleeding, but real change requires giving American workers the education and training to compete domestically and internationally for the high-skill, high-wage jobs that are the ticket to the middle class. Investing in education and building schools and curricula for the 21st Century is a long-term project, but it is the one that has the greatest potential in terms of economic growth and increased opportunity, while preserving the spirit of free enterprise and entrepreneurship that built this country.Mr. Speaker, tonight the President will challenge us to join him in an effort to reinvigorate the American Dream for another generation. Let us join him in that sacred task.
01.28.14	01.28.14 Rep. Schiff Floor Speech Previewing the State of the Union: President and Congress Must Address Inequality Gap Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) previewed the President’s State of the Union address on the House Floor, urging his colleagues and the President to take up the challenge of the growing inequality gap, first by extending emergency unemployment insurance for those still looking for work, and raising the minimum wage:“We should never seek to punish success or, as some describe it, ‘soak the rich,’ but we must take steps to address the problem of growing inequality, both in the short-term and over the longer-term as well. I believe that there are two things that Congress and the President can do to give Americans in the middle and those who aspire to join it the chance to move up.“First, we need to extend emergency unemployment assistance for those who are still looking for work and cannot find a job on their own. The weekly litany of those who are losing benefits is disheartening – we must not turn our back on our fellow Americans. Second, we need to raise the minimum wage nationwide and it is shameful that it has been five years since the last increase. In fact, according to one study, the minimum wage today is actually worth $2 less than in 1968. Raising the minimum to just over $10 as I support, would push millions of hard-working Americans out of poverty and stimulate economic activity throughout the country…“Tonight the President will challenge us to join him in an effort to reinvigorate the American Dream for another generation. Let us join him in that sacred task.”Watch the speech below, or click here: Full text of his speech is below:This evening, from the dais behind me, President Obama will deliver his State of the Union message. And while there are hopeful signs and a brightening of the economic outlook for the country as a whole, the President will almost certainly concentrate on the battles ahead.Even as America struggles to shake off the effects of the worst downturn since the Great Depression, our economy and our society are being challenged by a yawning inequality gap that affects tens of millions of American families and threatens to erode the underpinnings of our social contract.Last fall, economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty released an analysis of 2012 tax returns and found that the top ten percent of American earners took more than half of the country’s total income in 2012, the highest level ever recorded. The top one percent received more than 20% of all the income earned by Americans, a level not seen since 1928, the year before the stock market crash and the beginning of the depression.Top earners have also recovered more quickly over the last three years as their wages and investments have recouped value at a much brisker clip than those of the rest of Americans. Inequality has also been a persistent political theme in the last few years, here and around the world and helped to launch the Occupy Wall Street movement. Last year, Pope Francis spoke out against what he termed “an economy of exclusion,” while New York City’s new mayor, Bill deBlasio, won election by highlighting inequality there. President Obama, himself, made expanding opportunity a major theme in a speech in December and he has discussed the issue at length in his past two State of the Union addresses. I expect him to return to the theme tonight and in the coming months as the 113th Congress as we prepare to go to the polls in November.But if there is consensus that an overly-high concentration of wealth spawns a host of economic, social and political ills, but that agreement has not fostered a concerted strategy on expanding opportunity and closing the wealth gap.America has always rewarded hard work and the possibility for a better life has been part of the attraction for generations of immigrants and others struggling to climb the economic ladder. But economic mobility, as a recent study from Harvard and Cal demonstrates, varies greatly within the United States. And while economic mobility has not changed significantly over time, it is consistently lower in the U.S. than in most developed countriesWe should never seek to punish success or, as some describe it, “soak the rich,” but we must take steps to address the problem of growing inequality, both in the short-term and over the longer-term as well. I believe that there are two things that Congress and the President can do to give Americans in the middle and those who aspire to join it the chance to move up.First, we need to extend emergency unemployment assistance for those who are still looking for work and cannot find a job on their own. The weekly litany of those who are losing benefits is disheartening – we must not turn our back on our fellow Americans.Second, we need to raise the minimum wage nationwide and it is shameful that it has been five years since the last increase. In fact, according to one study, the minimum wage today is actually worth $2 less than in 1968. Raising the minimum to just over $10 as I support, would push millions of hard-working Americans out of poverty and stimulate economic activity throughout the country.These two steps could be part of a short-term solution that stops the bleeding, but real change requires giving American workers the education and training to compete domestically and internationally for the high-skill, high-wage jobs that are the ticket to the middle class. Investing in education and building schools and curricula for the 21st Century is a long-term project, but it is the one that has the greatest potential in terms of economic growth and increased opportunity, while preserving the spirit of free enterprise and entrepreneurship that built this country.Mr. Speaker, tonight the President will challenge us to join him in an effort to reinvigorate the American Dream for another generation. Let us join him in that sacred task.
01.23.14	01.23.14 Rep. Schiff Statement on PCLOB Report Urging End of Metadata Program: "Spells Final End of Government's Bulk Collection" Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board released a report calling for an end to the NSA's program of bulk collection of phone metadata:"The report from the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board spells the final end of the government's bulk collection of telephone metadata. Not only does the report raise serious questions about the statutory and constitutional foundation of the program, but it once again confirms both the limited national security value of the program and the very considerable risk to the privacy of the American people. This is now the second independent review to weigh the security and privacy considerations involved and to find the program wanting."Congress will not re-authorize bulk collection of this data when it expires next year, but Congress should not wait for the program to expire on its own. Rather we should work to restructure the program now so that bulk collection is no longer necessary and our security needs can be met by a more traditional approach of going to the telephone companies when we have reason to believe a number is connected with a plot."
01.17.14	01.17.14 Rep. Schiff Applauds Decision to End Bulk Collection and Require Prior Court Approval, Ready to Work In Congress on Bipartisan Basis to Implement Reforms and Go Farther Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee and sponsor of several pieces of legislation to reform the National Security Agency (NSA), released the following statement after the President laid out his principles for reforming the intelligence community in light of privacy concerns:“Today, President Obama articulated the fundamental principles at stake in the debate over how to reform our surveillance programs, and how we should balance security with privacy. The choices we make now to protect privacy, both for our citizens and for those overseas, will define us as a nation. I am pleased that the President clearly took the concern of the Review Group, Congress, and the American people seriously by announcing concrete steps to protect privacy, enhance oversight, and improve transparency of America’s surveillance efforts. Though the steps announced today are important, it will be up to Congress to implement many of these changes, as well as others, and to ensure that they are durable across future Administrations.“I was particularly pleased to hear the President's support for moving call record data outside of the NSA and requiring a court order to search it. The telephony metadata program is not without value, but the program can be restructured so that the government no longer collects the calling records of Americans in bulk. Doing so will achieve the same goals of protecting the nation from terrorism, but also be more respectful of privacy and with a minimal loss in efficiency. I have introduced legislation to end bulk collection and to require instead that the government seek an individualized court order authorizing a search of the phone records already held by phone companies as part of their regular business practices – this approach would be far more protective of privacy and less prone to possible abuse than the current program. The Congress should reject proposals that would house call records in some third party entity - such an entity will be rightly perceived as a subsidiary of the NSA and would do little to build public confidence.“I also was pleased to hear the President’s support for an adversary before the FISA Court so that there is a party charged with advocating on behalf of privacy and civil liberties of Americans. However, the devil will be in the details. Specifically, I believe this ‘public interest advocate’ should only be appointed in certain cases involving programmatic requests and novel legal and technical issues. I also believe the advocate must be truly independent and have access to the technical expertise necessary to independently evaluate the government’s arguments before the FISA Court. My legislation would create a pool of private attorneys with sufficient clearance and expertise to serve in this crucial role.“As the debate moves to Congress, I’m prepared to work on a bipartisan basis to implement the reforms proposed by the President and indeed go farther, and to ensure that our intelligence and surveillance activities protect our country while holding true to the values that have made our nation worth protecting.”Background:Schiff has introduced several pieces of reform legislation. First, Schiff introduced legislation, the “Telephone Metadata Reform Act,” which would restructure the telephone metadata program by specifically removing call records from the types of information the Government can obtain under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. Instead, records would be obtained on a case by case basis from the telephone companies subject to approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Second, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Third, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Fourth, Schiff introduced legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.
01.15.14	01.15.14 Rep. Schiff Passes Landmark Legislation to Reduce Helicopter Noise in Los Angeles Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a year-long spending package, which included a provision directing the Secretary of the Department of Transportation and FAA to address helicopter noise in Los Angeles County skies. Residents of the Los Angeles region have been plagued for decades by frequent and disruptive helicopter noise, and despite persistent efforts to work on a collaborative basis with stakeholders to reduce the impact of helicopter noise, little has changed.Schiff stated: “After years of pushing, residents should finally begin to see some relief from unnecessary helicopter noise. This legislation will hold the FAA’s feet to the fire and ensure that they are making every effort to reduce helicopter noise. Now, the FAA will have one year to act on its pledge to reduce helicopter noise through voluntary measures, or be forced to put in place real rules to provide relief to homeowners.”Background:Last year, Schiff, Feinstein and other members of the Los Angeles delegation introduced legislation, the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act, and encouraged the FAA to act independently of legislation to reduce helicopter noise in Los Angeles. Following a lengthy study, the FAA released their report on the Los Angeles airspace, urging voluntary measures over a regulatory approach, which many homeowners and lawmakers felt was an insufficient response. This legislation, which is expected to pass and be signed into law later this week, will finally force the FAA to act.Senator Feinstein and Schiff successfully included language in the omnibus spending bill that will be voted on later this week that would require the FAA to develop regulations related to the impact of helicopter use on the quality of life of LA County residents within one year unless the FAA can demonstrate the effectiveness of the six voluntary action items in the helicopter noise report. Efforts to include language in the omnibus were supported by the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Coalition (LAHNC).Below is the provision included in the appropriations bill: Sec. 119D. The Secretary shall (1) evaluate and adjust existing helicopter routes above Los Angeles, and make adjustments to such routes if the adjustments would lessen impacts on residential areas and noise-sensitive landmarks; (2) analyze whether helicopters could safely fly at higher altitudes in certain areas above Los Angeles County; (3) develop and promote best practices for helicopter hovering and electronic news gathering; (4) conduct outreach to helicopter pilots to inform them of voluntary policies and to increase awareness of noise sensitive areas and events; (5) work with local stakeholders to develop a more comprehensive noise complaint system; and (6) continue to participate in collaborative engagement between community representatives and helicopter operators: Provided, That not later than one year after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall begin the development of regulations related to the impact of helicopter use on the quality of life and safety of the people of Los Angeles County unless the Secretary can demonstrate the effectiveness of actions taken under the previous proviso to address helicopter noise. Following the release of their report – the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative – Schiff and homeowners hosted a town hall meeting with the FAA in which they committed to support the following actions: evaluate existing helicopter routes to identify feasible modifications that could lessen impact on residential areas and noise-sensitive landmarks; analyze whether helicopters could safely fly at higher altitudes in certain areas along helicopter routes and at specific identified areas of concern; develop and promote best practices for helicopter hovering and electronic news gathering; conduct outreach to helicopter pilots to increase awareness of noise-sensitive areas and events; explore a more comprehensive noise complaint system; and continue the collaborative engagement between community representatives and helicopter operators, with interaction with the FAA.This legislation will ensure that the FAA will complete their work on time and without delay. If after a year, residents, homeowners and business owners do not see a marked difference and reduction in the level of unnecessary helicopter noise, the legislation will require the FAA to set new rules and regulations – something that they thus far have been unwilling to do.
01.15.14	01.15.14 Rep. Schiff to Host Town Hall to Discuss the Rim of the Valley Next Wednesday La Cañada Flintridge, CA –On Wednesday, January 22 at 6 pm, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) will host a town hall meeting at the Crescenta-Cañada YMCA to discuss the future of the Rim of the Valley. The National Park Service has already provided a recommendation to Congress to create a San Gabriel unit of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, and legislation will likely be introduced in the near future to act upon it. Because some of the San Gabriel area overlaps with land included in the Rim of the Valley study area, Congressman Schiff wants to hear from his constituents and other stakeholders, including members of organizations, businesses and other institutions, to ensure that any legislation will create the most useful and environmentally-sound national recreation area. He is particularly interested to hear whether residents would like parts of the Rim of the Valley study area to become part of the Santa Monica Mountains Recreation Area, the San Gabriel Park, a new Rim of the Valley recreation area, or remain unchanged.In 2008, Congress passed Schiff's bill directing the Park Service to conduct a special resource study to determine the possibility of providing federal protection to the Rim of the Valley – an area which stretches from the existing Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, through the Simi Hills and Santa Susannas, Verdugos, and on to the San Gabriel Mountains. The study explored whether any portion of the Rim of the Valley study area was eligible to become a unit of a national park system or added to an existing one, and how the resources could be protected and best utilized by the public. In the fall of 2012, the National Park Service released its preliminary findings, and offered four initial alternatives – Alternatives A through D – and opened up the conversation for public comment. Thousands of residents and members of government agencies, organizations and other institutions submitted their comments to both the NPS and Congressman Schiff’s office. Over 4750 individuals wrote in supporting a combination of the boundary adjustment for alternatives C and D, which would adjust the boundary of the recreation area to connect many people in urban areas to the park, as well as provide key habitat protections. The Park Service is now in the process of developing a recommendation to present to Congress that will take into account the public comments, and expects to publish a draft of their recommendation to Congress for the Rim of the Valley this summer.The town hall is open to the public and press.Details of the event:WHAT: Town Hall to discuss the Rim of the ValleyWHERE: Crescenta-Cañada YMCA Auditorium 1930 Foothill Blvd La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011WHEN: Wednesday, January 22, 2014; 6:00 pm
01.14.14	01.14.14 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on Funding for Planetary Science in Omnibus Spending Bill Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), released the following statement after the Appropriations Committee posted language for the omnibus spending bill late last night:“I am pleased that the spending bill contains strong funding for the continued development of the Mars 2020 rover and for a mission to Jupiter and its moon Europa. I hope that this will dissuade the Administration from putting forward a 2015 budget that again seeks to cut funding for NASA’s pathbreaking exploration of our solar system. Congress has now sent a clear message time and time again to NASA and OMB about the importance of sufficient funding for the planetary science program, but I continue to hear disquieting rumors that there may be further attempted cuts in the FY 2015 budget, including possible delays to the next two Mars missions and shutting down some current missions. If any such proposals are included in the upcoming budget, my colleagues and I will fight them.“Chairman Frank Wolf and Ranking Member Chakkah Fattah have been steadfast in their support of planetary science and I am deeply grateful to them for recognizing the importance of this endeavor and the need to support the most specialized workforce in the world, many of whom are my constituents working at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.”Background:The omnibus spending bill contains a total of $1.345 billion for planetary science spending, including $65 million for a return to Mars (known as Mars 2020) and $80 million for a mission to Europa.
01.14.14	01.14.14 Rep. Schiff and Senator Feinstein Announce Helicopter Noise Reduction Legislation Included in Omnibus Appropriations Bill Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) announced that the omnibus appropriations bill – which will fund the government for the next year – includes a provision directing the Secretary of the Department of Transportation and FAA to address helicopter noise Los Angeles County skies. Residents of the Los Angeles region have been plagued for decades by frequent and disruptive helicopter noise, and despite persistent efforts to work on a collaborative basis with stakeholders to reduce the impact of helicopter noise, little has changed.Last year, Schiff, Feinstein and other members of the Los Angeles delegation introduced legislation, the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act, and encouraged the FAA to act independently of legislation. Following a lengthy study, the FAA released their report on the Los Angeles airspace, urging voluntary measures over a regulatory approach, which many homeowners and lawmakers felt was an insufficient response. This legislation, which is expected to be voted on this week, will finally force the FAA to act.“For years, the FAA has not felt the urgency that homeowners and residents across Los Angeles County have felt – very literally with the rattling of windows – on the need to reduce helicopter noise,” said Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank). “While we are continuing to work with the FAA on voluntary measures, we need to take an ‘all of the above’ approach towards solving this issue – including new rules and regulations. With this legislation, FAA will have one year to act on its pledge to reduce helicopter noise or it will be forced to regulate.”“I am pleased the omnibus federal funding bill includes a provision to reduce excessive helicopter noise in the Los Angeles Basin,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). “I have worked on this issue with Congressman Schiff, Senator Boxer and others for more than two years, and this bill will finally lead to concrete action. The provision requires the FAA to initiate regulations addressing helicopter noise and safety issues above Los Angeles within one year, unless the agency can demonstrate that the six voluntary measures it recommended in May have proven to be effective. The FAA must also move forward with those six voluntary measures immediately. I am optimistic this provision will improve the quality of life for millions of people living in Los Angeles.”Senator Feinstein, with the support of Schiff and Los Angeles delegation members, successfully included language in the Senate transportation appropriations bill and ultimately the omnibus spending bill that will be voted on later this week that would require the FAA to develop regulations related to the impact of helicopter use on the quality of life of LA County residents within one year unless the FAA can demonstrate the effectiveness of the six action items in the helicopter noise report. Efforts to include language in the omnibus were supported by the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Coalition (LAHNC).Below is the provision included in the appropriations bill:Sec. 119D. The Secretary shall (1) evaluate and adjust existing helicopter routes above Los Angeles, and make adjustments to such routes if the adjustments would lessen impacts on residential areas and noise-sensitive landmarks; (2) analyze whether helicopters could safely fly at higher altitudes in certain areas above Los Angeles County; (3) develop and promote best practices for helicopter hovering and electronic news gathering; (4) conduct outreach to helicopter pilots to inform them of voluntary policies and to increase awareness of noise sensitive areas and events; (5) work with local stakeholders to develop a more comprehensive noise complaint system; and (6) continue to participate in collaborative engagement between community representatives and helicopter operators: Provided, That not later than one year after enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall begin the development of regulations related to the impact of helicopter use on the quality of life and safety of the people of Los Angeles County unless the Secretary can demonstrate the effectiveness of actions taken under the previous proviso to address helicopter noise.Following the release of their report – the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative – Schiff and homeowners hosted a town hall meeting with the FAA in which they committed to support the following actions: evaluate existing helicopter routes to identify feasible modifications that could lessen impact on residential areas and noise-sensitive landmarks; analyze whether helicopters could safely fly at higher altitudes in certain areas along helicopter routes and at specific identified areas of concern; develop and promote best practices for helicopter hovering and electronic news gathering; conduct outreach to helicopter pilots to increase awareness of noise-sensitive areas and events; explore a more comprehensive noise complaint system; and continue the collaborative engagement between community representatives and helicopter operators, with interaction with the FAA.This legislation will hold the FAA’s feet to the fire and will ensure that the agency will complete their work on time and without delay. If after a year, residents, homeowners and business owners do not see a marked difference and reduction in the level of unnecessary helicopter noise, the legislation will require the FAA to set new rules and regulations – something that they thus far have been unwilling to do.
01.14.14	01.14.14 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Restructure NSA Telephone Metadata Program Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, introduced the Telephone Metadata Reform Act, which would restructure the telephone metadata program by specifically removing call records from the types of information the Government can obtain under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act. Instead, records would be obtained on a case by case basis from the telephone companies subject to approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Schiff’s proposal mirrors the restructuring of the telephone metadata program recommended by the President’s Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies, as well as changes that Congressman Schiff has been advocating for since before the metadata program was made public. The Review Group’s report stated that having telecommunications firms retain their records “would greatly reduce the intake of telephony meta-data by NSA, and it would therefore also dramatically (and in our view appropriately) reduce the risk, both actual and perceived, of government abuse.”“For a long time, I’ve been pushing to have the call records held by phone companies and “queried” on a case-by-case basis, instead of the government’s collecting vast amounts of domestic phone records,” said Schiff. “This idea gained new momentum last month with the President’s NSA review panel’s endorsement that restructuring the program is both technically feasible and more protective of the privacy interests of the American people. My legislation would restore the balance between security and privacy by allowing law enforcement and the intelligence community to access records when needed, but also respecting the privacy of Americans by ending government possession of these vast database.”Schiff’s bill would end the telephony bulk collection program as it is currently constituted, while still allowing the NSA and law enforcement to look at the records as needed for law enforcement and anti-terrorism activities:Terminates the existing bulk telephony metadata program.Allows the Director of the FBI to make an application to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court requiring a telecommunications carrier to search their call records based on a particular “seed” call record upon showing a reasonable suspicion that the “seed” record is associated with a specific foreign terrorist organization or specific foreign intelligence. The FISC could approve or deny a request. If the FISC approves, a phone carrier would have 12 hours to return the call records to the FBI in the proper format.The bill includes a provision for exigent situations in which it is not practicable to wait for FISC approval. Under this provision, the FBI Director would make a determination and order telecommunications firms to search their phone records on an emergency basis with a response required within 6 hours. The FBI would be required to notify the FISC immediately that it had exercised its emergency authority and to seek approval of the orders by the FISC within 72 hours.The legislation does not impose any new burden on telecommunications companies to retain phone records.Schiff has introduced several pieces of reform legislation in addition to proposing changes to the phone metadata program. First, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Second, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Finally, Schiff introduced legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.###
01.09.14	01.09.14 Rep. Schiff Joins with President Obama at White House to Help Announce Los Angeles Promise Zone Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) joined President Barack Obama to help announce the first five “Promise Zones,” which will include one located in the Los Angeles neighborhoods of Hollywood, East Hollywood, Koreatown, Westlake and Pico Union – the other zones will be located in San Antonio, Philadelphia, Southeastern Kentucky, and the Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. First announced by the President during last year’s State of the Union Address, the Promise Zone Initiative is a way to partner with local communities and businesses to create jobs, increase economic security, expand access to educational opportunities and quality, affordable housing and improve public safety. A map of the new Promise Zone can be found here:The Hollywood Central Park project, which Schiff has worked on for years, will be located within the Los Angeles Promise Zone. The project would build a 44 acre urban park over the Hollywood Freeway that will create more than 40,000 jobs, create long-term economic stimulus, and provide the community with open green space for generations to come. This is a major step forward for this highly-anticipated project.“By investing in these key communities in the country, we will not only create jobs and educational opportunity for our young people, but we will return hope to some areas that have lost much in the Great Recession,” said Schiff. “Every child must have a good chance at success – no matter where you’re from – and this new Promise Zone will help keep the promise that hard work and determination in America can and will pay off.”This new Los Angeles Promise Zone is focused on five primary goals:Increasing housing affordability by preserving existing affordable housing and partnering with housing developers to increase the supply of affordable new housing to prevent displacement.Ensuring all youth have access to a high-quality education, and are prepared for college and careers through its Promise Neighborhoods initiative, by partnering with the Youth Policy Institute and L.A. Unified School District to expand its Full Service Community Schools model from 7 schools to all 45 Promise Zone schools by 2019.Ensuring youth and adult residents have access to high-quality career and technical training opportunities that prepare them for careers in high-growth industries through partnerships with career and technical training schools and the Los Angeles Community College District.Investing in transit infrastructure including bus rapid transit lines and bike lanes, and promoting transit-oriented development (TOD) that attracts new businesses and creates jobs.Charging its Promise Zone Director and Advisory Board with eliminating wasteful and duplicative government programsSchiff advocated directly with the White House and the Department of Housing and Urban Development to select Hollywood as one of the first zones in a letter in November 2013, saying: “The Los Angeles Promise Zone seeks to attract private investment, improve affordable housing and educational opportunities, create jobs, reduce serious and violent crime, and assist local leaders in navigating federal programs and cutting through red tape in the targeted Central Los Angeles community. The City of Los Angeles has worked tirelessly for more than a decade to develop innovative partnerships and best practices to support this model.”The full letter is below and can be found here:Dear Secretary Donovan:It is with tremendous pleasure that I provide my wholehearted support to the City of Los Angeles’ FY2013 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Promise Zone application.The Los Angeles Promise Zone seeks to attract private investment, improve affordable housing and educational opportunities, create jobs, reduce serious and violent crime, and assist local leaders in navigating federal programs and cutting through red tape in the targeted Central Los Angeles community. The City of Los Angeles has worked tirelessly for more than a decade to develop innovative partnerships and best practices to support this model. The LA Promise Zone complements and enhances the work of implementation partners such as the Youth Policy Institute (YPI), which was recently-awarded Promise Neighborhood and Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants.Given the tremendous opportunities for success in the Los Angeles Promise Zone, I am very pleased to provide my wholehearted recommendation for this exciting project. The proposed services and resources are of extraordinary benefit to residents of the Promise Zone and in the City of Los Angeles. The selection of Los Angeles, one of the largest cities in the nation, offers the strongest example of the effectiveness and impact of coordinated federal investments with motivated and unified stakeholders to better our communities.Please do not hesitate to contact my office with any questions you may have regarding this letter of support.
01.09.14	01.09.14 Rep. Schiff Announces $20 Million Grant to Repair Tunnel Damaged During July Fuel-Tanker Fire Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that the Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded a grant to Caltrans to help pay for the repairs to a tunnel linking the northbound 5 and 2 freeways which was damaged by a fuel-tanker fire in July. After the accident and ensuing fire, Caltrans said "intense heat from the tanker fire caused extensive damage to the pavement, walls, support columns, drainage and lighting." This grant for $20 million from the DOT’s Federal Highway Administration, will allow for the repair of the tunnel and effected roadway.“In a time of shrinking transportation and infrastructure spending at the state level, this grant comes as a welcome relief for Caltrans,” said Schiff. This grant – authorized until the Emergency Relief program – will help Caltrans pay for the repairs that are currently ongoing. Under the Emergency Relief program, these funds are only able to be applied after the President or the Governor issues a formal emergency declaration and the State files a request for ER for the cost of damages to its eligible highways. Eligible repair work includes emergency repairs needed to restore essential traffic, minimize the extent of damage, or protect the remaining facilities as well as permanent repairs necessary to restore the highway to its pre-disaster condition.
01.07.14	01.07.14 Rep. Schiff – House Must Take Up Unemployment Insurance Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the Senate broke the filibuster on legislation to extend long-term unemployment insurance for 1.3 million Americans and 222,000 Californians who lost their jobless benefits:“It’s unconscionable that long-term unemployment insurance has not been extended. The millions who are unemployed are looking for work, not a handout. Speaker Boehner has the power to bring up a bill to extend unemployment compensation at any time -- he should do so without delay. “This is the number one issue for the House as we return this week, and it’s my hope that the House Majority will open its eyes to the plight of millions of families throughout the country.”
01.01.14	01.01.14 Rep. Schiff Comments on the New York Times Report on Benghazi Washington, DC -- On Sunday morning, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, appeared on Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace to discuss the recent NYT report on the Benghazi attack. Since the tragic attack on U.S. facilities Benghazi, Schiff has rejected claims that the Obama Administration designed talking points with an intention to mislead the public about the nature of the attacks. The original talking points incorrectly asserted that the attacks began as a spontaneous protest of an anti-Islamic video -- but this was the best assessment of the intelligence community in the immediate aftermath of the attacks.Schiff stated today: "We now know that the attacks had some level of pre-planning, and that the video, along with the anniversary of 9/11, a general call to action by Ayman Al-Zawahiri, anti-U.S. animus, a desire to loot and steal, and other factors motivated those involved in the attacks."Some have sought to portray the attacks on the compound as a pre-planned operation by 'core' al Qaeda,while others maintain that it was an almost purely spontaneous act of violence spurred on by the anti-Islamic video alone. Neither paradigm accurately characterizes the events of that day, or the broad range of criminals, terrorists and militias that participated in the heinous acts which cost four Americans their lives."While some may have had ties to al Qaeda or were inspired by its virulent hatred of the West, this must not obscure the fact that there were many other murderous actors without such connections who were involved and who continue to pose a real threat. "The reality is that many local militant organizations in the Middle East, North Africa and elsewhere may loosely affiliate with al Qaeda or have members who do, for money, logistics, recruiting or prestige -- or choose to unaffiliate as opportunity dictates -- and neither status is completely determinative of their threat to the United States."The continuing politicization of these events is a disservice to the brave men who died that day, and the many others in the service of this country overseas who are deserving of a more thoughtful response to the security needs of our personnel. We must not lose focus on the two most important issues related to Benghazi: how do we prevent this from happening again, and how do we bring those responsible to justice?"Below is the full transcript of Schiff's comments on Sunday:SCHIFF: Well, I don't think "The New York Times" report is designed to exonerate the security lapses within the State Department that left our people vulnerable. I do think it adds some valuable insights. I agree with Mike that, however, the intelligence indicates that al Qaeda was involved, but there were also plenty of people and militias that were unaffiliated with al Qaeda that were involved.I think the intelligence paints a portrait that some came to murder, some people came to destroy property, some merely came to loot, and some came in part motivated by those videos. So it is a complex picture. There was some planning, as Mike points out, but it was not extensive. I don't think it's either accurate to characterize this as a long-term preplanned core al Qaeda operation or something completely unaffiliated.And I think, Chris, where the New York Times report both adds value and also is deficient is they didn't have the same access to people who were not aware that they were being listened to. They were heavily reliant, obviously, on people that they interviewed who had a reason to provide the story that they did.Sometimes, though, the intelligence which has the advantage of hearing what people say when they don't know they are being listened to, that could be misleading as well when people make claims, they boast of things that they were not involved in for various purposes.So I think it adds some insights, but I don't think it's complete. And I don't think either paradigm is really accurate here.
12.16.13	12.16.13 Rep. Adam Schiff Requests Armenian Orphan Rug for Capitol Hill Event from the White House Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to President Barack Obama requesting that the White House lend the Ghazir rug, more commonly known as the Armenian Orphan Rug, be lent out for an event on Capitol Hill hosted by Schiff with survivors, historians, members of the Armenian-American community, and Members of Congress and their staff to highlight the efforts made by the American government to aid the Armenian community after the first genocide in the 20th century. Schiff previously had previously encouraged the White House to allow the rug to be displayed at the Smithsonian.The full letter is below:Dear Mr. President:As the centennial commemoration of the Armenian Genocide draws ever closer, I will be hosting an event in the coming weeks to highlight the American response to the slaughter, including the efforts by American diplomats, journalists, and Near East Relief.Most Americans, including a great many of my colleagues in Congress, are not aware of the scope and scale of the American response to the genocide. Our efforts, public and private, helped to relocate refugees and to provide relief to survivors and their families throughout the years of the genocide (1915-23) and after. But America’s generosity was not lost on those we helped. In 1925, a group of Armenian orphans who had been relocated to Ghazir, now in Lebanon, wove a rug, now known as the "orphan rug," and gave it as a gift to US President Calvin Coolidge. To highlight these efforts, I will be hosting an educational event here in the Capitol and plan to invite survivors, historians, members of the Armenian-American community, and Members of Congress and their staff.As part of this event, I believe that it would be fitting to display that Ghazir rug, which embodies the tragedy of the genocide and the rebirth of the Armenian people and I respectfully request that it be made available for the event.Earlier this year, the White House declined a request to loan the rug for display at an event held at the Smithsonian, stating that a book signing was not considered an appropriate venue. At the time, the White House indicated that it would consider a display of the rug in another setting, and I believe that this would be an appropriate venue and occasion for a viewing. I hope that you will grant my request expeditiously and that the White House curator’s office will work with my staff and me to arrange a mutually acceptable date in January or February of 2014.Thank you for your consideration.Sincerely,Adam B. Schiff
12.13.13	12.13.13 Rep. Schiff Praises Changes Proposed by NSA Reform Panel to End Bulk Collection of American's Telephone Metadata Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, praised reported changes proposed by the President’s NSA review panel that would end the program that collects metadata on phone calls made in the United States, an idea Schiff first proposed years ago in the Intelligence Committee. “I am pleased to learn that the President’s taskforce studying NSA reforms will recommend ending the bulk collection of American’s telephone call records, among other useful reforms. I have consistently maintained that instead of collecting vast amounts of domestic phone records, we should query the records held by phone companies on a case by case basis. The taskforce finding is yet another confirmation that restructuring the program is both technically feasible and more protective of the privacy interests of the American people. “When Congress returns, I will continue working through the Intelligence Committee and on the floor to end bulk collection, but I hope in the meantime the President takes the advice of his taskforce and begins the restructure immediately. Many of these changes – like allowing the providers to hold onto their own records – can be accomplished without legislation and I would urge the Administration to act now."Background:Schiff has introduced several pieces of reform legislation in addition to proposing changes to the phone metadata program. First, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Second, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Finally, Schiff introduced legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.
12.13.13	12.13.13 Rep. Schiff on Anniversary of Newtown Shooting: We Must Keep Pushing for Gun Safety Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor and advocate for gun safety legislation, released the following statement to mark the one year anniversary on Saturday of the shootings at a Newtown, Connecticut elementary school, urging Congress to take up commonsense gun violence reform legislation:“One year after the tragic shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary that took the lives of twenty children and six teachers, Congress has compounded the tragedy by failing to take up any commonsense gun measures. Congressional failure to respond to the wave of gun violence and mass shootings that have continued unabated since that terrible day last December is a sad indictment of our system. Close to two hundred more children have been shot to death since Newtown – how many more will it take?“The American people want commonsense reforms passed now, like universal background checks for all gun purchases, an assault weapons ban, and legislation to give all victims of gun violence their day in court."Background:Rep. Schiff is a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Taskforce, has sponsored the Equal Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act, and is a co-sponsor of bipartisan legislation to institute universal background checks sponsored by Reps. Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Peter King (R-NY).
12.11.13	12.11.13 Rep. Schiff: Not Extending Unemployment Insurance Would Put a Lump of Coal into Families' Stockings This Holiday Season Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a member of the Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after a budget agreement was reached between Sen. Patty Murray and Rep. Paul Ryan last night, and urged Congress to extend unemployment insurance before leaving town for the holidays:“I appreciate the work that the budget negotiators have done to replace the sequester with a more rational budget process, and I will be evaluating the specifics to determine whether it is something I can support. The deal may help Congress return to a regular appropriations process and stop the economically-destructive practice of going from crisis to crisis. It would also restore some of the funding cut by the indiscriminate sequester.“However, I’m deeply disturbed that this deal does not include an extension of unemployment insurance for 1.3 million Americans who are actively seeking employment. A recent CBO study showed that failure to extend unemployment insurance will not only hurt struggling families, but also will cost our economy another 200,000 lost jobs that we just can’t afford to lose during this tepid recovery. Congress should not leave town for the holidays until we have extended these vital benefits.“I hope that we will be able to reach agreement on unemployment insurance and avoid putting a lump of coal into families’ stockings during this holiday season.”
11.25.13	11.25.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Deal Reached With Iran on Nuclear Weapon Development Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement:"The agreement reached today between the world powers and Iran is a positive step forward in the diplomatic effort to roll back Iran's nuclear program. This interim deal, which provides limited and reversible relief from sanctions for a six month period, requires Iran to eliminate its stockpile of uranium enriched to 20 percent, and freezes its 3.5 percent stockpile, while submitting to intrusive inspections. The hope is that during the next six months a final agreement can be reached to verifiably end Iran's nuclear weapons program."I have little trust in the Iranian regime, and we will need to scrutinize Iranian behavior to ensure they do not cheat. If they do, or if at the end of six months they fail to agree on a final resolution, we must freeze all Iranian assets and ramp up even more punitive sanctions. Iran must not mistake our resolve that it never be permitted to obtain the bomb, threaten the U.S. and Israel, and touch off a regional nuclear arms race."At the same time, if Iran's new President can make good on his stated intention, the next six months could mark a turning point in our relations with Iran of historic significance."
11.21.13	11.21.13 Rep. Adam Schiff Offers Amendments in Intelligence Committee Markup to Increase Transparency on U.S. Drone Use Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, offered two amendments to the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 during a markup of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence that would increase the transparency and accountability of the use of drones. The first amendment would have required an annual report of both combatant and non-combatant deaths and injuries by drone strikes. The second would require the preparation of a “red team” report – essentially an independent review – when a U.S. person is potentially targeted with lethal force, and would require that report to be declassified after ten years.Both amendments are similar to amendments agreed to by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in its consideration of the same bill, and collectively they offer reasonable reforms to increase transparency and accountability in the use of lethal force. Schiff offered both in the markup, but ultimately they were not adopted. Rep. Schiff plans to continue fighting for these and other reforms as the bill moves to the House Floor and conference with the Senate. During the markup, Schiff spoke in support of both of his amendments.On reporting combatant and non-combatant deaths and injuries: “The production of this report will require minimal resources, but will provide a modest but important measure of transparency and oversight. It will help to fulfill the promises made by the President in his May 2013 speech at the National Defense University. As the President articulated, when we order a drone strike, ‘there must be near-certainty that no civilians will be killed or injured — the highest standard we can set.’ Never the less despite our best efforts these strikes unfortunately do result in civilian casualties and the death of innocents who were simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. Perhaps that is unavoidable and simply the nature of fighting the enemy we confront, an enemy that places no value on civilian life. But what we can do is be accountable and transparent, both with ourselves and with the world. And as the President pointed out in his NDU speech, ‘There’s a wide gap between U.S. assessments of such casualties and nongovernmental reports.’ This amendment would help narrow that gap.”On requiring “red team” analysis and declassification: “The decision to target a US person for lethal force is an extraordinary one. There has been only one strike targeting a US citizen, the strike that killed Anwar Awlaki. The ‘red team’ analysis puts in place a statutory review of these determinations. While this or other Administrations may put in place internal processes, codifying the process would ensure that our commitment to oversight of the incredibly weighty decision to potentially target a US citizen is a common sense reform. It will serve to increase the confidence in our assessments, and provide an additional measure of transparency through the Intelligence Committees and the Inspector General. In addition to the amendment adopted by the Senate committee, my amendment would go a step farther requiring the red team reports generated to be made public ten years after their preparation. The declassification of assessments will also have the salutary benefit of improving the quality of these assessments, as I have always believed that the knowledge that a document will be published and critiqued has a positive impact on its quality.”Background on each amendment can be found below:The first amendment would require an annual report on the number of combatants and noncombatant civilians killed or injured annually by strikes from remotely piloted aircraft, also known as drones. The amendment also requires that the report include the definitions of combatants and civilian noncombatants used to reach the totals. The amendment also requires that the report include the definitions of combatants and civilian noncombatants used to reach the totals. This simple amendment would increase the transparency and accountability in drone operations, a goal that has been endorsed by President Obama, CIA Director Brennan, and others. The amendment would explicitly exclude strikes that take place in Afghanistan or other theatres of conflict. A similar amendment was proposed by Senator Diane Feinstein and was adopted and agreed to by the Senate committee.The second amendment would require the preparation of a "red team" analysis of the determination that a US citizen or US person is engaged in acts of international terrorism against the United States and may be targeted with lethal force. The red team analysis would be conducted by an independent team and would review the materials and assessments used to make the determination, and would provide their own analysis to the Director of National Intelligence within 15 days. The alternative analysis is not binding. The amendment would also require these reports to be provided to Congress and to the DNI Inspector General. A similar amendment was proposed by Senator Angus King and Senator Marco Rubio and agreed to by a bipartisan 10-5 vote. Rep. Schiff's amendment would also include a new provision requiring the declassification and publication of these reports after ten years, unless the DNI determines they cannot be made public without jeopardizing ongoing intelligence operations.
11.12.13	11.12.13 Rep. Schiff to Administration – Armenian Orphan Rug is a Cherished Symbol of Armenian Resilience, A Symbol Worthy of the Smithsonian Washington DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) called on the Obama Administration to allow exhibition of the “Armenian Orphan Rug” at the Smithsonian Museum. The rug, woven by orphans of the Armenian Genocide in 1920, was presented to President Calvin Coolidge in 1925 as thanks for U.S. assistance during the genocide. The rug – which has been in storage at the White House for decades – was supposed to be released for exhibition in a Smithsonian event for the launch of Hagop Martin Deranian’s new book “President Calvin Coolidge and the Armenian Orphan Rug.” Unfortunately, the event was cancelled when the White House refused to release the rug for display.“The decision by the Administration to block display of the Armenian Genocide rug is as inexplicable, as it is hurtful to the Armenian community,” Schiff explained. “The rug is not only a symbol of the resilience of the Armenian people through their darkest days, it also serves as a tangible expression of the inherent truth that not only were 1.5 million people killed in the first genocide of the 20th Century, but that the American government was a central player in efforts to call attention to the plight of the Armenian people and provide relief to survivors.”The Administration has been reluctant to call the Armenian Genocide what it was, a genocide, and this latest decision to keep the rug out of the Smithsonian comes without explanation. Schiff continued, “The rug deserves to be on display and the millions affected by the genocide deserve the chance to see it – it’s my hope that the Administration will decide to allow the rug, a symbol worthy of the Smithsonian, to be released.”Schiff and Rep. David Valadao (R-CA) sent a letter, along with 31 other Members, to President Obama urging him to allow exhibition of the rug. The full letter is below, and can be found here:Dear Mr. President:As Members of Congress who represent America’s Armenian community, we write to inquire about numerous reports that the White House has blocked the exhibition of an important Armenian Genocide-era icon of shared American and Armenian history scheduled to open December 16th; the “Armenian Orphan Rug.”This historic rug was hand-woven by orphans of the Armenian Genocide in an American-sponsored orphanage run by an U.S. charity created by an act of Congress. The rug, which has over 4,000,000 hand-tied knots, was presented, in 1925 to President Calvin Coolidge as a symbol of gratitude for American aid and generosity. President Coolidge noted that, "The rug has a place of honor in the White House where it will be a daily symbol of goodwill on earth.” The presentation of the rug to President Coolidge enjoyed wide publicity including in The New York Times and resulted in millions of dollars being raised for humanitarian assistance.The Armenian Orphan Rug is a piece of American history and it belongs to the American people. For over a decade, Armenian American organizations have sought the public display of the rug and have requested the White House and the State Department grant their request on numerous occasions. Unfortunately, Armenian Americans have yet to have their requests granted.We urge you to release this American treasure for exhibition. We look forward to working with you to ensure this important piece of American and Armenian history is publicly displayed and we eagerly await your response. Sincerely,Members of Congress
11.07.13	11.07.13 Rep. Schiff, California Representatives Urge White House to Fully Fund Earth Quake Early Warning System Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), joined by Representatives Judy Chu (CA-27), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Sam Farr (CA-20), Tony Cardenas (CA-29), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mike Honda (CA-17), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Lois Capps (CA-24), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Scott Peters (CA-52) and Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), urged the White House’s Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Sylvia Mathews Burwell, to provide the highest possible funding level for the Earthquake Hazard Program and the Global Seismic Network in their 2015 budget request. Over the past several years, some in Congress and the Administration have targeted the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program for budget cuts — including to the early warning system still being developed by scientists in Southern California. For prototypes like the U.S. Geological Survey’s “Shake Alert,” which was partially designed by the USGS in Pasadena, budget constraints have slowed its implementation. Such an early warning system would be enormously helpful in providing residents and first responders with advance notice that could help avert major infrastructure damage by shutting down mechanical systems like mass transit and elevators and save lives in the event of a major earthquake.In the letter, the Members write:“As you work with the United States Geological Survey (USGS) to craft its fiscal year 2015 budget request, we urge you to support the Earthquake Hazards Program and the Global Seismic Network at the highest possible level. As Members of Congress representing districts in the United States at risk from earthquake hazards, we are concerned with the deteriorating fiscal health of these programs. These modest investments will ensure USGS is able to continue its crucial mission of mitigating against earthquake hazards….Earthquakes are a serious threat to the United States, with over 75 million people in 39 states living in areas of significant earthquake risk … There have been a number of devastating and costly earthquakes around the world in recent years, and it is a matter of when, not if, such an event occurs in the United States. Therefore, it is critical we maintain our vigilance and expertise in earthquake research. The USGS provides seismic monitoring and scientific programs that serve the entire nation.”“Every few months, we are reminded about Los Angeles’ and California’s vulnerability with tremors and small earthquakes rattling our homes and businesses. It is critical that the United States maintains its vigilance and expertise in earthquake preparedness, and I am hopeful that when the House and Senate meet to work out the appropriations bills, we will be able to secure funding for this vital program,” said Rep. Adam Schiff, who led the letter to the White House. “When we consider the lives that would be spared if we have just a little bit of warning before the next big one, it’s a very small but prudent investment.”The full letter is below:Sylvia Mathews BurwellDirectorOffice of Management and BudgetExecutive Office of the PresidentEisenhower Executive Office Building1650 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington D.C. 20503 Dear Director Burwell:As you work with the United States Geological Survey (USGS) to craft its fiscal year 2015 budget request, we urge you to support the Earthquake Hazards Program and the Global Seismic Network at the highest possible level. As Members of Congress representing districts in the United States at risk from earthquake hazards, we are concerned with the deteriorating fiscal health of these programs. These modest investments will ensure USGS is able to continue its crucial mission of mitigating against earthquake hazards.As you know, earthquakes are a serious threat to the United States, with over 75 million people in 39 states living in areas of significant earthquake risk. There have been a number of devastating and costly earthquakes around the world in recent years, and it is a matter of when, not if, such an event occurs in the United States. Therefore, it is critical we maintain our vigilance and expertise in earthquake research. The USGS provides seismic monitoring and scientific programs that serve the entire nation.Furthermore, we encourage the USGS, with its university and private partners, to work toward developing an earthquake early-warning system, such as the one in Japan. Currently, a group of universities in California and Washington, working hand-in-hand with the USGS and the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, have developed a prototype system that would be a national model. They are working closely with key stakeholders, including the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system in San Francisco, to test and provide feedback on what will be a very valuable system. We ask that you do all that you can to ensure USGS be provided with the resources it needs to enable an earthquake early-warning system on the west coast be fully functional and operational during this decade. In addition, it is vital USGS continue to develop new products and services that benefit all Americans. Recent earthquakes on the East Coast and in the Midwest have highlighted the need for continued USGS investments in national earthquake hazard research and assessment. USGS also should continue to invest in research on induced seismicity. These critical investments cannot be pursued unless robust funding for the USGS Earthquake Hazards Program and the Global Seismic Network is approved.We realize the federal government is working toward addressing its national debt and that both Congress and federal agencies are taking actions to do so. However, accomplishing this task should not be done at the expense of programs that protect lives and property. Earthquakes are inevitable and unpredictable, and the American people must have the tools they need to be prepared. We respectfully request that you support the USGS’s earthquake programs in the FY 2015 budget request.
10.30.13	10.30.13 Rep. Schiff Highlights New Report on Immunity Shield Enjoyed by Gun Manufacturers and Dealers Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor who has introduced legislation to ensure that the victims of gun violence are allowed to have their day in court and that the gun industry – manufacturers, sellers and interest groups – is not shielded from liability when it acts with negligence and disregard for public safety, highlighted a new report by the Educational Fund to Stop Gun Violence titled “Justice Denied: The Case Against Gun Industry Immunity.” This report exposes the unprecedented legal protections provided to the gun industry by the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, a law enacted in 2005 at the behest of the NRA.“Good gun companies don’t need special protection from the law, and bad gun companies certainly don’t deserve it,” said Schiff. “Other industries across our country like automotive manufacturers, pharmaceutical firms and even cigarette companies don’t enjoy special protection under the law, and there is no reason to give the gun industry the right to act negligently. This new report demonstrates, in a very real way, that as part of our larger effort to stop gun violence in the country, everyone – including gun companies – must be held accountable for their actions.”Background:In 2005, Congress passed legislation called the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA) which provides immunity in state and federal court from civil liability for licensed manufacturers, distributors and dealers of firearms, as well as their trade associations, in most negligence and products liability actions. This immunity from liability under well-established common law principles that apply to everyone else in society is unique to the gun industry. As a result, gun makers and sellers have a lesser obligation to act with reasonable care for the safety of the public. It also means that gun sellers can turn a blind eye to straw purchasers or traffickers who may buy hundreds of weapons and traffick them to others with no background check whatsoever. A background check is only as effective as it is comprehensive, and if gun dealers can sell to straw purchasers with impunity, it could lead to the large scale evasion of a universal background check system. As most gun companies are responsible businesses, this immunity only protects the worst actors in the industry.When Congress passed the PLCAA, its supporters argued that it was necessary to protect the gun industry from frivolous lawsuits but that victims of gun violence would not be shut out of the courts. Senator Larry Craig, the sponsor of the legislation and, at that time member of the NRA’s board, stated during debate on the Senate floor, “This bill will not prevent a single victim from obtaining relief for wrongs done to them by anyone in the gun industry.” In reality, numerous cases around the nation have been dismissed on the basis of PLCAA even when the gun dealers acted in a fashion that would qualify as negligent if it involved any other product. Victims in these cases were denied the right to even discover or introduce evidence of negligence.Schiff’s legislation, The Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act, has attracted twenty-four cosponsors and would allow civil cases to go forward against irresponsible bad actors. Letting courts hear these cases would provide justice to victims while creating incentives for responsible business practices that would reduce injuries and deaths. A copy of the report by the Educational Fund to Stop Gun Violence can be found here. You can also read background articles on this issue in the Washington Post, National Public Radio, Los Angeles Times, and The Nation.
10.29.13	10.29.13 Members of Los Angeles Delegation to FAA – Complete Actions of Helicopter Noise Report Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Adam Schiff, Henry Waxman, Brad Sherman, Karen Bass, Janice Hahn, Tony Cardenas and Alan Lowenthal, and Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer sent a letter to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta, to request that the agency release its schedule for completing the next steps identified in the FAA’s Report on the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative. At a field hearing hosted by Rep. Schiff in June, the FAA promised to complete several actions, and now almost five months later, has yet to report back to Congress.In the letter, the Members and Senators write: “Although nearly five months have passed since the FAA made these commitments, we are concerned that we have not yet seen measurable progress implementing the steps specified in the report. We understand FAA officials recently attended a collaborative meeting in Los Angeles between community representatives and helicopter operators, and have upcoming meetings planned. We are pleased to see this ongoing dialogue. However, moving forward, we believe that it is critical for the FAA to develop and release to all stakeholders a schedule to complete the six steps outlined in the Report on the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative. Having a clear process for how and when the FAA will complete the report’s next steps will greatly benefit the efforts to develop safe guidelines that reduce helicopter noise.”“Residents across the Los Angeles area are affected by intrusive, disruptive and often non-emergency related helicopter traffic above their neighborhoods and homes,” said Rep. Schiff. “It’s my hope that the FAA will complete the actions they promised at our field hearing in June in a timely manner. Angelinos deserve peace and quiet, and if the FAA won’t act to regulate disruptive and preventable helicopter traffic noise, Congress must pass legislation to give residents the relief they deserve.”The full letter is below: The Honorable Michael P. HuertaAdministratorFederal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta:We are writing to request that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) release its schedule for completing the next steps identified in the FAA’sReport on the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative, published in May. As you know, the FAA committed in the Report to “undertake and support the following actions:”1. Evaluate existing helicopter routes to identify feasible modifications that could lessen impact on residential areas and noise-sensitive landmarks.2. Analyze whether helicopters could safely fly at higher altitudes in certain areas along helicopter routes and at specific identified areas of concern.3. Develop and promote best practices for helicopter hovering and electronic news gathering.4. Conduct outreach to helicopter pilots to increase awareness of noise-sensitive areas and events.5. Explore a more comprehensive noise complaint system.6. Continue the collaborative engagement between community representatives and helicopter operators, with interaction with the FAA.Although nearly five months have passed since the FAA made these commitments, we are concerned that we have not yet seen measurable progress implementing the steps specified in the report. We understand FAA officials recently attended a collaborative meeting in Los Angeles between community representatives and helicopter operators, and have upcoming meetings planned. We are pleased to see this ongoing dialogue. However, moving forward, we believe that it is critical for the FAA to develop and release to all stakeholders a schedule to complete the six steps outlined in the Report on the Los Angeles Helicopter Noise Initiative. Having a clear process for how and when the FAA will complete the report’s next steps will greatly benefit the efforts to develop safe guidelines that reduce helicopter noise. We ask the FAA to provide us with an update on its progress to date and a detailed schedule for completing actions specified in the report by the end of November, which marks the six month anniversary of the report’s release. Thank you for your close attention to this issue. If you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact us.###
10.24.13	10.24.13 Rep. Schiff to Postal Service – Don't Proceed With Relocation of WeHo San Vicente Post Office West Hollywood, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) called on U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to cancel plans for the relocation of retail operations at the West Hollywood Branch Post Office on San Vicente Boulevard. In a letter to the USPS, Schiff expressed his concern that relocation to the proposed site will not adequately compensate for closure of retail services at the existing San Vicente site and will pose a tremendous inconvenience to the city’s residents.Schiff is a supporter of a larger, more comprehensive approach to the USPS’s financial troubles and is a co-sponsor of the Postal Service Protection Act (H.R. 630), which would allow the USPS to use the funds it has previously overpaid in retirement benefit liabilities to meet the prefunding requirement.The full letter to the USPS about the West Hollywood branch is below:Diana AlvaradoPacific Facilities Service OfficeU.S. Postal Service1300 Evans Avenue, Ste. 200San Francisco, CA 94188-8200Ms. Alvarado,I am writing to follow up on a letter I sent to your office dated May 21, 2013 in which I strongly urged the United States Postal Service (USPS) not to proceed with the relocation of retail operations at the West Hollywood Branch Post Office, located at 820 N. San Vicente Boulevard. I am aware that the City of West Hollywood has since been notified that the new proposed site for retail operations of the West Hollywood Branch Post Office is located half a mile away at 458 Doheny Drive. I, along with the city’s representatives and residents, have concerns that relocation to this proposed site will not adequately compensate for closure of retail services at the existing San Vicente location and will pose a tremendous inconvenience to the city’s residents.First, I am concerned that the new proposed location, which is located on the western end of the city’s boundary, is not centrally-located and will, therefore, be less accessible for many in the community. The San Vicente office has enjoyed the loyal patronage of local residents for many years -- particularly seniors, the disabled, and others who rely on non-vehicle transportation -- precisely because of the fact that it is located in a pedestrian-friendly and publicly accessible area. Though I understand that USPS has stated it would seek relocation at a space that is available via sidewalks and public transit, I share the City’s concerns that this proposed site will not meet accessibility expectations given its location at the edge of the city rather than closer to its core.Secondly, I remain strongly opposed to the conversion of the San Vicente office into a mail processing center. Though the USPS may believe that the ensuing addition of carrier vehicles traveling to and from the San Vicente location will have a minimal effect on traffic and noise pollution, I share the City’s reservations that the additional vehicles will create more traffic and noise pollution in an already congested and commercial area of the city.Finally, I share the City’s concerns that the proposed land use change may result in a depressed “dead zone” on San Vicente Boulevard. As you know, San Vicente Boulevard is among one of the busiest streets in the city and its commercial success relies heavily on regular foot-traffic. I am concerned that the San Vicente facility, as a mail processing center, will result in a decline of its maintenance and upkeep, thereby having a negative impact on neighboring commercial properties. In a similar regard, I worry that additional traffic activity at the new site on Doheny Drive would have a negative impact on the surrounding residential properties.I thank the USPS for taking these important concerns into consideration before moving on with its proposal. I understand that the USPS is operating under great financial distress and is taking steps to recover its financial health. However, taking a piecemeal approach of selling off a small number of postal facilities and redistributing the retail operations of facilities -- such as the one on San Vicente Boulevard -- to another facility will do nothing to help USPS’s financial health recuperate and will instead place an undue burden on many local residents. As I have stated in the past, I urge USPS to pursue a larger, more comprehensive approach to its financial troubles, which involves reallocating funds of previously overpaid retirement benefit liabilities to meet its prefunding requirement. I am a co-sponsor of the Postal Service Protection Act (H.R. 630), a bill in Congress which would do just that.I echo the sentiments of the West Hollywood City Council in urging USPS to reassess its decision to relocate the retail operations of the San Vicente Boulevard Post Office to the facility on 458 Doheny Drive. This plan will put West Hollywood residents and businesses at a great disadvantage and will do little to recoup savings for the USPS. I look forward to hearing from you on this important issue and thank you for your reconsideration.
10.22.13	10.22.13 Rep. Schiff Currently Accepting Applications for Service Academy Nominations Burbank, CA – Each year, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) nominates students from the 28th Congressional District for appointment to one of the four United States service academies which require a Congressional nomination. With these appointments, students are provided a free college education at a nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing for an officer’s commission in our nation’s armed forces. Nominations are required for all but the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, to which appointments are made on the basis of an annual nationwide competition.All Members of Congress are able to nominate qualified high school students for admission to one of the four service academies: the Military Academy at West Point, the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. In order to be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated by an authorized person, including Members of the House of Representatives, Members of the United States Senate or the Vice President’s Office.“The students that are nominated to a service academy compile outstanding resumes of accomplishment, demonstrating excellence in academics, physical fitness and extracurricular activities,” said Schiff. “It has been an honor to see exceptionally qualified students from our community excel as cadets and midshipmen and then go on to serve our country honorably in one of the branches of our armed services. Each year, I nominate students who I know will excel and contribute at these academies and in our nation’s military, and I would encourage interested students to apply for one of these prestigious nominations to the service academies.”An applicant for nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: he or she must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed their 23rd birthday, must be a United States citizen and must be unmarried, not pregnant and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. The deadline for students interested in applying for nomination to a service academy from Cong. Schiff’s office for the Class of 2018 is November 1, 2013. For additional information, call Schiff’s district office at 818-450-2900 or 323-315-5555 or visit his website for an application.
10.16.13	10.16.13 Rep. Adam Schiff – "Long Nightmare is Coming to an End, Need Fundamental Change in How Congress Operates to Make Sure It doesn't Happen Again" Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), a member of the Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after he voted for legislation to re-open the government and raise the debt ceiling:“Now that this divisive and economically destructive ordeal is coming to an end, we need to change how Congress operates so we put an end to these recurrent man-made crises. We cannot allow a small group of members to hold the government and the nation's credit hostage to an unrelated agenda.""It is my hope that the budget discussions which will take place under this agreement, will re-establish an orderly process for funding the government and put an end to the indiscriminate and hurtful cuts known as the sequester. We should also establish a new rule that any unfunded expenditure or unpaid for tax cut be accompanied with the authorization to pay the bills thus incurred. There should never be a question about the United States' willingness to honor its debts and obligations.“It’s time to get back to the business of governing, and turn our attention to where it should have been all along -- putting Americans back to work, reviving our economy and moving the nation forward.”###
10.15.13	10.15.13 Rep. Adam Schiff – "Debt Ceiling Must Be Raised By Thursday, Default is Not an Option" Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement about the immediate need to raise the debt ceiling – the statutory limit of borrowing that must be raised if federal government is to have the capacity to pay its past bills, such as bond holders, Social Security recipients, our military and veterans and other programs:“As if closing the government down wasn’t bad enough, the House Majority is now flirting with additional disaster by risking default on our debt. Unless action is taken by Thursday, markets may plunge, the government will default on payments to creditors and recipients of government payments like social security beneficiaries and veterans, and America’s creditworthiness may be downgraded again. A debt limit increase simply allows our country to pay the bills we have already incurred and doesn’t add one cent to our national debt. On the other hand, default means higher interest payments, a weaker economy and, ironically, greater deficits and debt.“The full faith and credit of the United States is non-negotiable. I hope that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle will join the call to raise the debt ceiling immediately and unequivocally, without any extraneous demands on the Affordable Care Act or anything else – time is running out.”Background:While no one knows the full extent of the economic damage should the U.S. default on its debts, the cost to American families will be significant, potentially resulting in:Higher interest rates for mortgages, auto loans, student loans, and credit cards, which could force families to cut back on key essentials [JEC,Ways & Means Committee]o An average homebuyer could pay an extra $100 a month, if mortgage rate spreads increase by as much as during the default crisis in 2011 [Treasury Dept.]o The cost of college could go up by $1,000 for a freshman who starts school in 2014 and takes out the maximum student loan if the government were to default [Institute for College Advancement and Success , Education & Labor Committee]Families’ retirement savings in 401(k)s dropping as the stock market plummets.o The average American’s 401(k) could drop by $15,000 and the average IRA by almost $23,000, if retirement assets shrink as much as with the 2011 debt limit crisis. The cost would be higher for workers nearing retirement – dropping an average 401(k) more than $37,000 [Ways & Means Committee,The American Society of Pension Professionals and Actuaries]o Higher interest rates & less access to business loans needed to finance payrolls, build inventories, or invest in equipment & construction [JEC]o 3.4 million veterans not receiving disability benefits [JEC]o 10 million Americans not receiving their Social Security check on time in the first week [BPC]o Drug reimbursements under Medicare stopping, and doctors and hospitals not getting paid [CNN]
10.11.13	10.11.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Capture of Pakistani Taliban Commander Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement on the capture of Latif Mehsud, a senior leader of the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan:"The capture of Latif Mehsud, a leader of the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, is good news and another blow to those engaged in terrorizing innocent civilians. As a top commander of TTP and close ally of Hakimullah Mehsud, he can provide vital intelligence on the operations of this murderous group of insurgents."TTP has killed countless people in Pakistan at market squares, road-sides, churches and mosques. It has also tried to organize attacks on the U.S. homeland, as we saw in the attempt on Times Square several years ago. Together with the capture of Al-Libi last week, the United States has taken key terrorist figures off the battlefield and given us the opportunity to acquire critical information to protect our country and our allies."###
10.09.13	10.09.13 Rep. Schiff – Grieving Military Families Should Not Be Affected by Government Shutdown Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement announcing he would vote to reactivate halted payments to grieving families of fallen servicemen and women, who typically receive a $100,000 death gratuity, monetary reimbursement for funeral expenses and other expenses associated with the death of a loved one:“It is yet another stain on this destructive shutdown that it has been allowed to affect grieving members of our military families who have lost loved ones – this must not persist another minute. The families of those who have made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our nation shouldn’t have to wait for the mess in Washington to be over for help with burial expenses. These families must have immediate access to those benefits which they have earned at such tremendous cost."###
10.07.13	10.07.13 Rep. Schiff – Al-Libi Should be Tried in Civilian Court Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement in response to the capture of Al Qaeda terrorist Abu Anas al-Libi, and the need to try him in civilian court:“The weekend capture of Abu Anas al-Libi was a blow to the remnants of core al Qaeda, and a potential intelligence gold mine. I applaud the military and civilian personnel who executed the mission, and the President for making this gutsy call.“Media reports indicate that the Administration plans to send al-Libi to New York for prosecution after he has been thoroughly questioned by intelligence officials. I support a criminal prosecution and hope that the Administration will resist any call to bring al-Libi before a military commission. The Justice Department has demonstrated a far greater ability to successfully prosecute terrorists in federal courts than the military commissions have thus far been able to show. Nothing must be done to compromise the public safety, the ability of Justice Department prosecutors to seek justice for the victims of the East Africa bombings, or our constitutional principles."
10.03.13	10.03.13 Rep. Schiff Floor Speech on Impact of Government Shutdown on Intelligence Community Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a member of both the Intelligence Committee and Appropriations Committee, spoke about the harmful effects that the government shutdown has had on the Intelligence Community, and urged the House Majority to pass a clean funding bill with no extraneous riders:“As we approach the end of the first week of the GOP shutdown, I want to highlight the impact it is having on just on sector of our government – the intelligence community. As DNI Clapper and NSA Director Alexander made clear in testimony in the Senate yesterday, 70 percent of these key analysts have been forced to leave their posts. This is irresponsible, tragic, and, most painfully – completely avoidable.“House Republicans now say they will put up a bill funding veterans, but not the intelligence agencies. Or tomorrow, the intelligence agencies, but not the FBI. Or the FBI, but not the Department of Homeland Security. Or DHS and the NIH, but not the Department of Justice. This is ridiculous, senseless and reckless. “Let’s be honest about what the House leadership is really saying – we will choose, hostage by hostage, which agency of the government we will release. We will do so only to buy time until the ransom we want we get – the repeal of an unrelated health care reform.“As our intelligence analysts and other key personnel sit idle, our adversaries do not. Those who threaten the country have not been furloughed. Those devising new ways to attack our homeland, our allies and innocent civilians around the world are not on hiatus. They are working hard, and so must we.“End the reckless shutdown now. Put the intelligence agencies back to work; put all Americans back to work. End the endless series of man-made, avoidable and irresponsible crises that threaten our country and our economic recovery.”###
10.01.13	10.01.13 Rep. Schiff Statement – Congress Must Pass a Clean Funding Bill, Enough is Enough Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the House refused to pass a clean continuing resolution, clean of any riders defunding or changing Obamacare:“Tonight, the House Majority failed to fulfill one of Congress’ most basic obligations – to pay the bills on time and keep the lights on. It’s my hope that in the coming hours and days, cooler heads within the House Republican Conference will prevail, and we will be able to pass a clean bill to fund the government while we work towards a long-term budget.“We cannot continue to engage in these ‘my way or the highway’ exercises month after month – enough is enough.”###
09.30.13	09.30.13 Rep. Schiff Report: Impact of a Government Shutdown on Southern California Families and Economy Washington, DC – If the government fails to pass a continuing resolution by midnight tonight (September 30th), the federal government must shut down. In a shutdown, elements of the federal government that need to be funded by Congress each year in order to operate must close. Some government functions continue during a shutdown, such as active duty military, programs written into permanent law, postal service and air traffic control.Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank): “Congressional Republicans have once again created a crisis that has put America’s fiscal health in serious jeopardy – this time over their fervor to defund or delay Obamacare. A shutdown would be a self-inflicted wound on an economy still struggling to recover. If Congress can't take measures to affirmatively create jobs and support the recovery, it should at least get out of the way. We must cease these political games over the nation’s budget and the endless rounds of legislative brinksmanship. It’s time to end this destructive exercise that puts our nation’s economy, credit rating, and hard-working families in needless jeopardy."A shutdown – even a partial one – would have wide-ranging effects on California’s economy and a number of essential government functions that Southern Californians rely on. The following memo outlines just some of these negative impacts. Economic Impacts of a ShutdownShutdown Would Slow Economic Growth –According to respected Moody’s Analytics, a partial shutdown would cut the economy's annual growth rate in the fourth quarter by 0.2 percentage points, to 2.5%, even if it ended in three or four days. As a result of half of civilian government workers not being able to go to work, their lost pay would represent about half of the short-term economic impact. [USA Today 9/27]The 1995-1996 government shutdowns, a five-day hiatus in November 1995, followed by a 28-day gap in December and January 1996, did interrupt the strong expansion that was then developing. The economy grew at an annual pace of 3.5% in the third quarter of 1995, but dropped to 2.9% in late 1995 and 2.6% in the first quarter of 1996. Once the shutdown ended, growth rebounded to 7.2% in the second quarter of 1996, and the economy grew at a 4% clip in the second half of the year. [USA Today 9/27]Shutdown Will Cost Taxpayers Money –According to the Office of Management and Budget, the two shutdowns in 1995 and 1996 cost taxpayers $1.4 billion combined. Adjust for inflation and the cost estimate comes to $2 billion in today’s dollars.[NBC News 9/27] Some estimates have a shutdown costing $150 million a day. [Fiscal Times 9/24] California Tourism: Parks, Museums & MonumentsShutdown would lead to furloughs and loss of economic activity. California has a large number of public spaces that are managed by the National Park Service and their employees – there are 26 in California statewide, including Joshua Tree National Park and Mojave National Preserve, and a number of other federal lands and recreation areas, including the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area and Angeles National Forest. In 2012, there were over 35 million visitors to California national parks generating $1,192,000,000 in economic benefits. With visits by tourists disrupted, the economic impact of a shutdown could cost California millions of dollars in tourism.Parks and Public Spaces will likely close under a shutdown. Guidance similar to the 2011 Contingency Plan from the Department of Interior would close all parks and federal sites to the public. As well, a majority of staff would be furloughed. 2011 guidance recommended furloughing 16,800 employees, and retaining 3,200, nationally. [CRS, 9/24/2013] Emergency Responders, Disaster Recovery and SafetyFEMA Employees could be furloughed. Employees funded by annual appropriations must be furloughed during a funding lapse in such appropriations, with an exception for those employees needed to carry out functions that are necessary for the protection of life and property. Some FEMA employees are funded by annual appropriations. [FEMA, 9/23/13]Shutdown Would Prevent Vehicle Safety Tests. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) conducts testing on vehicles to ensure they are safe on the road. Many of these tests find defected parts which lead to recalls. If the government shuts down, this testing will stop, potentially putting California drivers and passengers at greater risk. [CRS, 9/24/2013] Benefits and Federal AgenciesNew Social Security Beneficiaries Might Not Receive Payments - A government shutdown could prevent new Social Security beneficiaries from receiving social security payments. As Social Security offices furlough employees or reduce hours, new claims might not be processed. In 2011, the most recent year of data available, there were 347,798 new Social Security beneficiaries in California. [CRS, 9/24/13]Housing Vouchers – The Department of Housing and Urban Development will not be able to provide local housing authorities with additional money for housing vouchers. The nation's 3,300 public housing authorities will not receive payments, although most of these agencies, however, have funds to provide rental assistance through October. [Washington Post, 9/30] In Glendale, for example, processing of housing voucher payments to Glendale Housing Authority’s approximate1,500 housing vouchers may be delayed, a number already significantly reduced due to sequestration. Issuance of Federal Housing Administration-backed mortgages in California could cease during a shutdown. The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) is self-financed, but authority to insure new home loans is authorized annually in appropriations acts. Therefore, in a shutdown, the FHA could be unable to insure new home loans. [CRS, 9/24/2013]Shutdown could interrupt medical research – The National Institutes of Health (NIH) would not be able to take on any new patients, or begin any new clinical trials, thereby impeding progress on life-saving, cutting-edge medical research. [ABC, 9/21/13] Local institutions, such as Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, receive a particularly large amount NIH funding for programs and research. Children’s Hospital’s Graduate Medical Program would also theoretically be effected if the shutdown lasted a long time, and payments could be delayedShutdown could delay approval of applications for Small Business Loans -- The Small Business Administration provides government-guaranteed loans to small businesses. These services could be suspended in a shutdown and depending on how long the last shutdown lasted, applications could get backlogged, meaning the impact could be felt even after the government reopens. [ABC, 9/21/13]In 2011, the Los Angeles SBA District Office helped to provide loans and financial assistance to 2,477 businesses, amounting to $1.58 billion. While exact numbers are not known, new business applications would be backlogged and would hurt current loans administered throughout Los Angeles. California Workers and Economic DevelopmentCalifornia Workers Impacted by Outsourcing Would Not Receive Assistance– A government shutdown would prevent the Department of Labor from issuing any new Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) determinations. TAA is given to employees who have lost their job as a result of their job being moved to another country. [Department of Labor memo, 4/7/2011]California economic development, housing, and city restoration projects would cease in a shutdown – All programs under the Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD) are expected to be impacted by a government shutdown. Program examples include:Brownfields Economic Development Initiative (BEDI)Community Development Block Grants (CDBG)Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs) ProgramEconomic Development Initiative ("Competitive EDI") GrantsRural Housing Stability Assistance ProgramSurplus Property for Use to Assist the Homeless (Title V)Federal Housing Administration (FHA)Mortgage Insurance for Disaster Victims (Section 203(h))Supportive Housing for the Elderly (Section 202) & Persons with Disabilities (Section 811)Los Angeles River Ecosystem Restoration Study Veterans, Military Service Members and Military Base EmployeesMilitary personnel must work without pay. This could have a devastating impact on military families, depending on the length of the shutdown. According to Rep. C.W. Young, R-Fla., Chairman of the House defense appropriations subcommittee, “All military personnel will continue to serve and accrue pay, but will not actually be paid until appropriations are available.” [Military Times, 9/23/13]Veterans could be denied education and vocational rehabilitation benefits. Under a shutdown plan drafted in 2011, the Veterans Administration will not be able to process new beneficiaries and administration of Education and Vocational Rehabilitation benefits. Also, Veterans Benefits Administration regional offices will have limited availability and no decisions on claims appeals or motions will be issued by the Board of Veterans appeals. [Dept. of Veterans Affairs, Contingency Plan, 4/8/11]Multiple other Veterans’ services could be curtailed. According to the Washington Post, the last time the government shut down in 1995, “multiple services were curtailed, ranging from health and welfare to finance and travel.” [Washington Post, 9/24/13] Furthermore, during the last threat of a shutdown, it was expected that Veterans Benefits Administration customer support services could be suspended. [OMB Public Memo, 2011]California Guardsmen/women would not be paid. A number of California National Guard employees would be furloughed until the government is funded. Additionally, depending on how long the shutdown lasts, the Guard could have to cancel training and other duties, which could affect another thousands of Soldiers and Airmen. Any shutdown would also negatively impact the families of Soldiers, Airmen, and civilian employees. There would be additional issues concerning contracting and purchasing, dependent on the length of a shutdown. [OMB Public Memo, 2011]###
09.27.13	09.27.13 Rep. Schiff: Support Alternative 20 in Los Angeles River Study Angeles, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement supporting Alternative 20 in the Los Angeles River Ecosystem Restoration Study and encouraged constituents to weigh in during the 45 day comment period and join a rally planned for tomorrow at Marsh Street Nature Park:“Since 2010, when I worked with Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard to designate the L.A. River as part of the Department of the Interior’s ‘America’s Great Outdoors’ program – the Army Corps of Engineers has been conducting the Los Angeles River Restoration Feasibility Study in partnership with the City of Los Angeles, to investigate opportunities to restore the natural and cultural heritage of the L.A. River.“Today, I join fellow nature lovers and river advocates in voicing my support for Alternative 20 – and a comprehensive restoration of the LA River. The Army Corps’ report showcased several different alternatives for restoration of the L.A. River, and it’s now up to river advocates to push for an expansive plan that will make the river contiguous and includes significant ecological restoration – and the best choice is ‘Alternative 20.’ This option – called RIVER, for Riparian Integration via Varied Ecological Reintroduction – combines all the elements of other alternatives (10, 13 and 16) and additional smaller features from still yet other alternatives (2, 3 and 7), with restoration of the Verdugo Wash confluence and the Cornfields site.“I recently had the pleasure of taking my son on a kayaking adventure down the Los Angeles River – and witnessed a true revival of this wonderful habitat. We saw abundant plant life, navigated rapids – almost fell over several times – watched a blue heron dry its wings, and marveled at the resiliency of the nature around us. I've gone running and biking along the river, attended community events and cleanups along its banks, and seen firsthand how a river that once divided communities is now bringing them back together. It’s my hope that the Army Corps of Engineers will continue to work with the City and nature lovers to embrace a public-private partnership and complete restoration of the L.A. River so that the ecosystem remains strong for future generations.”###
09.25.13	09.25.13 Rep. Schiff: Administration Must Act Now to Extend Humanitarian Parole for Syrian Refugees Washington, DC – Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) wrote nearly six months ago to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano urging her to use her authority to extend humanitarian parole – which would provide a temporary visa for those in an emergency situation – to the estimated six thousand Syrian nationals with approved immigrant petitions. This would allow Syrians who have been waiting for a visa to reunite with their family members in the United States without delay. Of the fleeing refugees, members of religious minorities, including the country's Christian population, are especially at risk, and many have sought refuge in the United States. Since writing to Secretary Napolitano, nearly six months has passed with no response from DHS to the letter signed by more than seventy members of Congress, and the conflict in Syria continues to worsen. This week, Reps. Schiff and Wolf wrote to the Acting Secretary of DHS and to the White House urging the administration to take immediate action.“Since the civil war erupted in Syria nearly two years ago, violence has continued to escalate with each passing day, and we have seen our worst fears materialize with a tremendous loss of life, suffering and heartache,” said Rep. Schiff. “We wrote to Secretary Napolitano almost six months ago, urging her to take a simple action to do our part to help the Syrian refugee population. In 2010 when a devastating earthquake struck Haiti, the administration took action to help bring orphaned children to the U.S. We must act in this humanitarian crisis as well, and I hope that the administration will finally take action.”The letter sent six months ago can be found here, and the letter that Schiff and Wolf sent this week to the DHS Secretary and White House is below:Dear Acting Secretary Beers:We write to follow-up on a letter from seventy-three Members of Congress urging Secretary Janet Napolitano to extend humanitarian parole to certain Syrian nationals. The letter was dated March 27, 2013, and we have yet to receive a response, after nearly six months.As Syria’s civil war continues to rage, the country’s people remain at incredible risk from both government and rebel forces. When we first wrote to Secretary Napolitano, refugee numbers were projected to exceed one million by September. As we now know, with the escalation of violence and the use of horrific gas attacks by government forces, the number of refugees has greatly surpassed these already dire projections, and has already topped two million. The vast number of Syrians fleeing their homes continues to put enormous strains on the international community, Syria’s neighbors and relief agencies.The U.S. can and should act to provide swift relief to Syrians with approved immigrant petitions. According to the National Visa Center, as of September 19, 2013, approximately 6,381 Syrian applications are currently waiting for a visa number to become available. It is unconscionable for us to drag our feet when our country can be an immediate refuge for Syrians who have been waiting to reunite with American family members. Our country has already approved their applications to become permanent U.S. residents. It is now time to also protect them.More than seventy Members of Congress, on behalf of the U.S. families of thousands of Syrian refugees, have urged the Department of Homeland Security to grant humanitarian parole to Syrian nationals who have been approved for immigrant petitions. This is an urgent matter and we ask that you swiftly grant our request. Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff Frank R. WolfMember of Congress Member of Congress
09.20.13	09.20.13 Schiff Statement on the Two Year Anniversary of the End of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" Policy WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff released the following statement on the two year anniversary of the end of the military's “Don't Ask, Don't Tell” policy:"In the two years since the military brought the 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy to an end, we have made tremendous strides towards full equality for all LGBT Americans. I have proudly supported these efforts and will continue to fight for justice and equal treatment under the law, as there is still work to be done.“Today military men and women can serve their country proudly, regardless of their sexual orientation, and defend American values abroad knowing that they are receiving them at home. When the Supreme Court struck down the Defense of Marriage Act in June, by ruling that DOMA is an unconstitutional violation of equal protection, the country took another momentous step forward towards equality and against discrimination. Same-sex couples are now afforded all the federal benefits given to married couples, including military spousal benefits.“In addition, I was proud to see the Obama Administration express support for same-sex marriage last year. Marriage equality extends one of our most basic rights of citizenship to all Americans – that is, the right to marry the person you love. Members of the LGBT community contribute to the strength of our nation and community in every field of endeavor. They should have the right to marry, and enjoy all the benefits and responsibilities of citizenship without discrimination. Ensuring rights and benefits to those couples legally married in states that recognize same-sex marriage, is a long-overdue first step, but it remains my sincere hope that marriage equality will soon become the law of the land – legal in all 50 states.”
09.20.13	09.20.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Armenian Independence Day Washington DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the 22nd anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Armenia:“I am so pleased to join with the vibrant Armenian community that I represent and proudly say ‘Oorakh Angakhootyan Or,’ as we recognize the 22nd anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Armenia.“The road to independence has not been easy, but time has proven that Armenians are survivors in the truest sense of the word—survivors of foreign domination and survivors of the first genocide of the 20th century. Armenian-Americans continue to illustrate what a valuable asset they are to our society, breaking new ground socially, economically and politically across the nation, and enriching our customs, traditions and quality of life.“Over the years, I have been privileged to work hand in hand with many individuals in the Armenian community on a wide variety of issues that concern the Armenian community, such as securing aid for Armenia and Artsakh, supporting self-determination for the people of Artsakh, and ending the U.S. government’s tragic failure to recognize the Armenian Genocide.“As a friend to the Armenian community, I am honored to join you in commemorating this important day and anniversary. Congratulations to the people of Armenia, to Armenians in America, and to all Armenians around the world.”
09.20.13	09.20.13 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Reform FISA Court and Allow Independent, Public Interest Advocate Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, introduced legislation, the Ensuring Adversarial Process in the FISA Court Act. This legislation would allow non-governmental attorneys to participate before the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) as “Public Interest Advocates” in significant constitutional cases and reviews of major surveillance programs. "By allowing a public interest advocate to participate in certain cases and advocate on behalf of the privacy interests of the American people, we can strengthen the protection of our civil liberties," said Rep. Schiff. "Even though the FISC's deliberations are necessarily secret in nature, it's vital that the American people have confidence that there are voices within the process arguing forcefully and effectively on behalf of the Fourth Amendment and privacy concerns of ordinary Americans."The Ensuring Adversarial Process in the FISA Court Act would enable the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board to appoint a pool of independent, non-governmental attorneys with experience litigating cases implicating privacy interests and Fourth Amendment protections to serve as "public interest advocates." Once selected, an attorney in the pool would be available for appointment by the FISC in cases involving novel constitutional issues or with broad privacy implications for the American people. An independent adversary would be able to challenge arguments made by the government, offer alternative approaches that are more protective of civil liberties, and argue for strong protections for privacy.Additionally, the legislation would make several other reforms to the FISA Court process, which operates largely out of sight. It would allow for increased opportunities for non-governmental parties and groups to file amicus briefs on issues before the FISC and it would allow independent technical experts to evaluate government programs and provide expert testimony to the FISC."An independent voice before the FISC will not only assure that the privacy concerns of Americans are taken into account, but it will also improve the quality of FISA court opinions by giving judges access to contrary views. It may also result in the restructuring of programs to improve privacy safeguards while assuring the government access to information necessary to protect the country," said Schiff. Schiff has introduced several pieces of legislation to reform the FISA Court to increase transparency and accountability. First, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Second, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Schiff was also the first to propose that the metadata program be restructured so that the telecommunications companies retain their own data, and the government would only request data connected to a number when it had reason to believe that number was associated with terrorism. The legislation can be found here.
09.17.13	09.17.13 Rep. Schiff – New Grant for Burbank Will Allow Police Department to Hire Three New Officers Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) had awarded the City of Burbank Police Department $375,000 to create three new officer positions. This is part of a statewide effort totaling nearly $20 million to 39 departments throughout the state of California, aimed at creating 105 law enforcement positions. The COPS Hiring Program offers grants to state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to hire or rehire community policing officers. The program provides salaries and benefits for officer and deputy hires for three years. Grantees for the 2013 hiring program were selected based on their fiscal needs, local crime rates, and community policing plans.“Since it was first created back in 1994, the COPS hiring programs have helped to put more than 125,000 police officers on the streets and in the neighborhoods – it’s no coincidence that we’ve seen a nationwide decrease in violent crime over the past decade,” said Rep. Schiff. “This grant for the Burbank Police Department will help hire three new police officers, which in a time of belt-tightening and budget cutting will be a great help to the city. I will continue to support this program and look to protect it from the dangers posed by budget infighting in Washington, DC.”“The Burbank Police Department is very appreciative of Rep. Adam Schiff’s considerable efforts to obtain funding for three police officer positions,” said Burbank Police Department Chief Scott LaChasse. “The grant monies will be specifically dedicated to reestablishing school resource officer positions. The Burbank Police Department has benefitted significantly from Rep. Schiff’s objective to sponsor legislation that contributes to community safety by preventing, deterring and detecting crime.”The COPS Office is a federal agency responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. Since 1995, COPS has awarded over $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of approximately 125,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training, and technical assistance.“The grants we announce today are part of the Justice Department’s ongoing commitment to help dedicated local law enforcement professionals build safer, stronger communities," said Tony West, Associate Attorney General of the United States. “These awards will help our partners in jurisdictions across the state of California hire more officers and better work with the communities they serve to address public safety issues.”Schiff has strongly supported COPS Program in the past. In 2011, he offered an amendment to restore $600 million in funding, and in 2009 he authored an amendment which would increase the number of forensic analysts and laboratory personnel working to catch rapists, murderers and other violent felons through the COPS program. ###
09.16.13	09.16.13 Reps. Schiff and Cárdenas to Host Service Academy Night in Tujunga for Interested High School Students Tujunga, CA –On Thursday, September 26, Reps. Adam Schiff and Tony Cárdenas will host a Service Academy Night for high school students interested in applying for admission to one of our nation’s service academies – the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, the Naval Academy at Annapolis, the Coast Guard Academy at New London and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. At the event students and parents will be able to learn about the application and selection process, talk to school representatives and learn about the benefits of a military career and education.“Each year, I nominate highly qualified students to these academies, and I encourage students to apply for prestigious appointments to our nation’s fine service academies,” said Schiff. “I hope that this informational session will be beneficial to students who are considering applying to the service academies, and I would encourage students and their parents to attend and learn more about the benefits of a military education.”Each year, Schiff nominates students from the 28th Congressional District for appointment to one of the four United States service academies which require a Congressional nomination. With these appointments, students are provided a free college education at a nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing for an officer’s commission in our nation’s armed forces. Nominations are required for all but the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, to which appointments are made on the basis of an annual nationwide competition. All Members of Congress are able to nominate qualified high school students for admission to one of the four service academies. In order to be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated by an authorized person, including Members of the House of Representatives, Members of the United States Senate or the Vice President’s Office.An applicant for nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: he or she must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed their 23rd birthday, must be a United States citizen and must be unmarried, not pregnant and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. The deadline for students interested in applying for nomination to a service academy from Cong. Schiff’s office for the Class of 2018 is November 1, 2013. For additional information, call Rep. Schiff’s district office at 818-450-2900 or 323-315-5555 or visit his website for an application. WHEN: Thursday, September 26, 2013, 6:30-8:00 P.M.WHERE: Sunland/Tujunga Municipal Building 7747 Foothill Blvd. Tujunga, CA 91042
09.10.13	09.10.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Russian Proposal on Syrian Chemical Weapons Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement on the recent developments with the Russian proposal on Syrian chemical weapons:“Yesterday, Secretary of State John Kerry suggested that a U.S. strike on Syria’s chemical weapons infrastructure could be avoided if Assad gave up his chemical weapons stockpile. Within hours, the idea was picked up by the Russian foreign minister who called on Syria to put its arsenal of poison gas under UN supervision and control. The offer may be merely a delaying tactic, or an attempt to sow division in the international community in an effort to fend off a military strike. Nevertheless the Russians were shrewd to make this offer, and it would be equally wise for the U.S. to pursue this option with great vigor.“We have a compelling moral and humanitarian interest in seeing that Bashar Al-Assad never uses chemical weapons again, not against Syrian civilians, not against anyone. The images of the dead and dying, men, women and children are indelibly fixed in our minds. We also have a core national security interest in making sure that when the Assad regime comes to an end, his chemical weapons stockpiles do not fall into the wrong hands. The worst case scenario for the United States would be to see Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, Hezbollah or similar terrorist organizations gain control of these weapons and use them against us. In the inevitable chaos that would follow the collapse of the Assad regime, this is not an insubstantial fear.“A targeted military strike would have the capacity to deter and degrade the Assad regime's further use of chemical weapons. But as I raised in a meeting yesterday with Secretary Kerry, Ambassador Rice, General Dempsey and others, it would not address the core concern that ultimately these stockpiles may fall into the wrong hands. United Nations’ custody and control of the chemical weapons stockpiles may be a more effective way of ensuring that neither Assad nor Al Qaeda ever uses these weapons again.“The Russians have a poor track record when it comes to Syria, the U.N., and the use of chemical weapons. They have repeatedly used their veto in the UN Security Council to thwart international action to hold the Assad regime accountable for its use of chemical weapons and failed to support even the most anodyne statements in the UN condemning the use of chemical weapons in Syria. It must be acknowledged that the credible threat of military force is the only reason they are now advancing this proposal – which goes far beyond anything they have thus far been willing to support.“But whatever the motivation, we should seize the opportunity – as difficult as it may prove in the middle of a civil war – to bring about UN control over one of the world’s largest chemical weapons stockpiles. The effort to place, and ultimately destroy, these stockpiles under UN supervision will once again put the United States and all of our traditional allies including the British on the same page. “The Assad regime still needs to be held accountable for its war crimes. A hundred thousand people have been killed and the regime has violated a century old prohibition on the use of chemical weapons. But our immediate, overriding concern must be the cessation of the use of chemical weapons and the imposition of UN control over them as soon as possible. Working with the international community, including the Russians, to bring about the cease fire necessary to secure these weapons holds the potential of putting the conflict back on the track of a negotiated resolution – the only true hope of ending the civil war.”
09.03.13	09.03.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Syria Washington, DC -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after briefings by the Administration over the past few days:"During the past ten days I have been receiving updated intelligence briefings and reports, and the evidence is now compelling that the Assad regime gassed its own people on August 21, killing about 1400 including over 400 children. This evidence of chemical attack comes from intelligence sources, respected NGOs, widespread and contemporaneous social media reports and video, and soon I hope from the UN inspectors themselves. Like many Americans, after the Intelligence Community's tragically flawed analysis of the Iraqi WMD program, I greet all intelligence analyses of a hostile nation's possession or use of such weapons with a strong degree of skepticism. "But at a certain point the evidence from a multitude of sources is so substantial that to ignore it amounts to turning a blind eye. With the most recent clinical evidence from blood, hair or tissue samples of sarin use, we are approaching that point."The President has said that Assad must be held accountable for violating the Geneva Protocol and all the international norms against chemical weapons use -- not to mention crimes against humanity. I agree with him. The President has also said that the failure to hold Assad accountable will not only encourage him to use chemical weapons again, but increase the likelihood that other nations will conclude that their development and use of WMD will be tolerated, and I agree with that too."I also believe that, as it is an international norm that is being violated, it is vital that the international community hold Assad accountable and that it should not be the United States acting alone. Yesterday afternoon, I expressed my concern to the White House that very few other nations were willing to act in concert with the United States in holding Assad accountable. After the loss of British support, the President faces the challenge of building a sufficiently broad coalition to satisfy the concerns of the American people who do not understand why the United States should take action if Syria's neighbors and the wider international community are unwilling."As a member of the body with the constitutional role of declaring war, I believe that the President was right to come to Congress for authorization, even though the delay might have some operational costs. Given the need to act, I cannot understand why the Speaker would not call us back into session immediately -- and did not do so a week ago, once the dimensions of the atrocity in Syria were apparent."The White House has put forward a proposed bill authorizing the use of force that, as drafted, is far too broad and open ended, and could be used to justify everything from a limited cruise missile strike to a no fly zone and the introduction of American ground troops. As drafted, I will not support it. Having introduced a bill in Congress to sunset the existing authorization to use military force in one conflict, I am loathe to support another unless it were very narrowly drawn. In my discussion with the White House, I told them the draft would need to be reined in significantly to have any chance of passage."After Iraq and Afghanistan, the American public is weary of war, and I share that weariness. I have opposed arming the rebels in Syria, notwithstanding the Administration's support because I fear those weapons will get in the wrong hands and it will draw us into yet another sectarian civil war. I have also always taken a strong position against the use of chemical weapons and in favor of holding those who commit such war crimes accountable. "As I weigh the difficult decision on any proposed authorization to use force, I will be particularly focused on narrowing the breadth of the authorization, as well as the Administration's effectiveness in making the case to the American people and marshaling international support for military action."
08.16.13	08.16.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Reports of an Internal Audit of NSA Surveillance Programs Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after reports were released of an internal National Security Administration (NSA) audit of its surveillance programs:"The latest report speaks, once again, to the need to strengthen the oversight of our intelligence operations. The intelligence community is populated with thousands of dedicated professionals, but some amount of human error is inevitable, and mistakes need to be reported immediately and clearly to independent overseers on the FISA Court and in Congress. Judge Walton, presiding judge of the FISC, is quite correct in his statement that the Court is reliant on the intelligence agencies to self-report instances of noncompliance with FISA Court orders. To a considerable degree this is true of the Congress as well, which suffers from a tremendous mismatch of resources compared to the agencies."Unlike other oversight committees which benefit from public scrutiny and reporting on government operations, the Intelligence Committee operates largely in secret. For this reason and others, FISA court opinions and the operations conducted pursuant to them should be declassified to the maximum degree consistent with national security. And to help ensure our privacy and the legality of intelligence gathering programs, the Administration and Congress should create an independent, adversarial voice within the FISC."
08.15.13	08.15.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on the Violence in Egypt Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after President Obama announced earlier today that he had canceled a joint military exercise with Egypt in the wake of violent protests resulting in over 500 casualties across Egypt:“President Obama was right to rebuke Egypt’s military leaders for the horrific bloodbath that took place yesterday. Nothing can justify the brutality that was visited upon largely peaceful protestors, and the President properly cancelled Operation Bright Star, the annual U.S-Egyptian military exercise scheduled for next month.“There is still time for both sides to step back from the abyss of a civil war and I urge the Egyptian military to lift the state of emergency that it has imposed and to re-open a political dialogue with all parties in Egypt with the goal of returning the country to a path towards democracy.“I have never expected the transitions unleashed by the Arab Spring to be quick, easy or painless. Revolution in brittle, unstable societies harbors the propensity for extreme violence. Egypt’s military leaders must be made to realize that dissatisfaction with the government of deposed President Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood cannot excuse the brutality that we have witnessed in the past few days. Egypt must return to the path of an inclusive political system that respects the rights of all its people.”
08.14.13	08.14.13 Rep. Schiff Praises Pentagon's Decision to Extend Rights to Same-Sex Married Couples Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after the Department of Defense announced its plan to grant same-sex spouses of military service members federal benefits as early as September:“Today’s announcement that the Department of Defense will extend to legally married same-sex couples the same privileges and programs that are provided to legally married heterosexual couples, including health and housing benefits, is another important step on this nation’s road to full equality for all Americans. I am especially pleased that military personnel based in those states where same-sex marriage remains illegal will be offered leave to travel to a jurisdiction that permits same-sex marriage, and I look forward to the day when such travel is no longer necessary. Our military men and women sacrifice every day to defend freedom and equality around the world. The least we can do is make sure they enjoy that equality here at home.”
08.09.13	08.09.13 Rep. Schiff Praises Steps for Further Transparency of FISA Court - Renews Call to Restructure Metadata Program Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior member of the Intelligence Committee released the following statement after the President's press conference today:“Today’s announcement by the President that he is committed to making the intelligence community more transparent, as well as making changes to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court and Section 215 of the Patriot Act is an encouraging development. The Administration and Congress must now work together to make this commitment a reality, and take the necessary steps to keep us safe,while also adhering to our Constitution and our national values. It was especially heartening that the President is open to having an adversarial process in the FISC, and that he is willing to consider significant changes in the metadata collection program. For some time, I have been urging that the metadata program be restructured so that the data is held by the telecommunications companies rather than the government. I hope this is one of the reforms the President has in mind. The proposals that the President laid out today address elements of a package of reforms that I am working on in the House. I look forward to working with the President on his proposals and on the areas that require Congressional action, including the need for FISA court judges to be confirmed by the Senate. While the President’s actions today are a welcome step, Congress must act to make these changes lasting – both in this and future Administrations.”Schiff has introduced several pieces of legislation to reform the FISA Court to increase transparency and accountability. First, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Second, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Finally, Schiff is planning on introducing legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.
07.31.13	07.31.13 Rep. Schiff Praises Declassification of Metadata Program Documents, Pushes for Greater Transparency and Reforms Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) declassified documents pertaining to the collection of telephone metadata pursuant to Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, and pushed for further transparency and changes to the program and FISA Court:“The decision by the Obama Administration to declassify further information about the NSA phone metadata program is a positive step that will help inform the public debate. The effort to provide greater transparency must not end here, and I urge the Administration to declassify additional decisions of the court, with a particular focus on providing clarity on the constitutional and statutory basis of NSA programs. I also hope the Administration will support legislation to require declassification of future decisions, not just past ones, so that we can assure that a more transparent FISA court becomes the rule for this and future administrations.“Finally, we must look at changing the telephone metadata program by having phone companies retain their own data, rather of the government. This way each query would require a specific government warrant before the FISA Court, and Americans would have more confidence that their privacy is being protected, while achieving the same national security results.”Schiff has introduced several pieces of legislation. First, Schiff introduced the “Ending Secret Law Act” which would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. Second, Schiff introduced legislation to require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Finally, Schiff is planning on introducing legislation to require the Privacy and Civil Liberties Board to create a pool of attorneys with experience in Fourth Amendment or national security law to argue the side of the public when the government requests a surveillance warrant in the FISA Court.
07.24.13	07.24.13 Rep. Schiff Votes for Amash/Conyers Amendment, Pushes for Further Discussion of Metadata Issue Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after voting for the Amash/Conyers amendment, pushing for further discussion and reform of the NSA phone metadata program:“I have thought long and hard about the Amash/Conyers amendment to end the bulk collection of information under Sec. 215 of the PATRIOT Act. I have concerns about the amendment and I have particular misgivings about significantly altering the FISA authorities through the blunt instrument of a limitation of funds provision with limited time for a substantive debate. I hope and expect that before any changes to the law make it to the President’s desk, we will have a fuller debate and discussion of these issues in Congress.“Yet, in the final analysis, and as I have been urging for some time, I believe that the metadata program should be restructured so that the private companies retain possession of their own data rather than the government – something the Director of the NSA has acknowledged is technologically feasible – and this amendment would compel the NSA to move in that direction. Such a restructuring would be more respectful of the privacy interests of the American people while allowing the government to seek the data it needs from the telephone companies to protect the country.“A strong vote on this amendment will also encourage the Administration to embrace real reforms to the FISA process, starting with the declassification of significant FISA court opinions so Americans can have a fuller understanding of these authorities and an informed public debate. I have already introduced legislation to bring about this greater transparency, and continue to work on additional bills to reform the FISA Court, including presidential nomination and Senate confirmation of FISA judges, and making sure there is an adversarial process and voice in important cases before the FISA Court.”
07.24.13	07.24.13 Rep. Schiff Offers Amendment Sunsetting Authorization for Use of Military Force– "AUMF Never Intended to Authorize a War Without End" Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, offered an amendment to the annual Defense appropriations which would prohibit the use of funds pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) on December 31, 2014 – effectively sunsetting the law. By the end of 2014, the last American combat troops will rotate out of Afghanistan and the responsibility for that nation’s security will have passed to the Afghan people. This amendment closely mirrors Schiff’s bipartisan legislation which would sunset the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) by the end of 2014, and calls on the Administration and Congress to work together to determine what new authority, if any, is necessary to protect the country after that time. Following the September 11 attacks, the Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force to provide the President with authorization to use “force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations or persons.”On the House Floor today, Schiff stated, “New Year's Day 2015 should not only bring a new relationship between the United States and Afghanistan. It should also mark the end of the conflict that was begun in our skies on that September morning and which was formalized days later when Congress passed the AUMF. The 2001 AUMF was never intended to authorize a war without end, and it now poorly defines those who pose a threat to our country. That authority, and the funding that goes along with it should expire concurrent with the end of our combat role in Afghanistan.”Since the AUMF passed, the U.S. has invaded Afghanistan, toppling the Taliban and routing the core of Al Qaeda. The authorization has also been used to support targeted strikes against Al Qaeda's operatives in other countries, and used as a basis to detain terrorists at the facility at Guantanamo Bay. The country now faces threats from individuals, entities and organizations that may affiliate with al Qaeda, or share its ideology and its determination to attack Americans, but which may not have even been in existence on September 11, 2001. In his recent speech at the National Defense University, President Obama specifically called on Congress to work with him. “I look forward to engaging Congress and the American people in efforts to refine, and ultimately repeal, the AUMF’s mandate,” Obama said. “And I will not sign laws designed to expand this mandate further. Our systematic effort to dismantle terrorist organizations must continue. But this war, like all wars, must end.”Schiff added in his speech today, “The Constitution invests in Congress the power to declare war and the responsibility for appropriating funds to pay for it. It is our most awesome responsibility and is central to our military efforts overseas. We owe it to the men and women we send into combat to properly define and authorize their mission, and my amendment will effectively give Congress the next 16 months to do so.”Schiff’s bipartisan legislation, which is co-sponsored by Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL), can be found here.###
07.24.13	07.24.13 Rep. Schiff Meets with Interns from Armenian National Committee of America and Armenian Assembly of America Washington – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) met with several interns from the Armenian National Committee of America in his Washington D.C. office. The interns discussed their work at the ANCA and priorities for the Armenian-American community, both in Congress and at home. They were also given a chance to ask Rep. Schiff questions about his work in Congress and to suggest ideas for legislation.“I am always pleased to see young people in our country engaging in public service and the legislative process, and am especially impressed when they demonstrate such enthusiasm and commitment. The experiences and professional development that internships provide will position these students well for their future endeavors.”In June, Rep. Schiff also met with several students from the Armenian Assembly of America who came to visit his Washington D.C. office. The students thanked him for sponsoring the Armenian Genocide Resolution and for creating awareness by speaking on the House Floor in Armenian. They also shared family stories and asked Rep. Schiff about his priorities this Congress."I am proud to represent a large and vibrant Armenian community, which has so enriched our nation in so many fields,” Rep. Schiff said. "As a friend of the Armenian community, I will continue working hard to pursue recognition for the 1.5 million victims of the Armenian Genocide, as well as policies to ensure a better life for the Armenian people in our communities and throughout the world."###
07.18.13	07.18.13 Rep. Schiff Announces House Appropriations Committee Funding for Planetary Science Almost $100 Million Over President's Request Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced the House Appropriations Committee had passed an FY 2014 Commerce, Justice and Science appropriations package that included $1.315 billion for planetary science within NASA’s budget. Earlier this year, it was announced that the Obama Administration was requesting $1.217 billion for planetary science. With the bipartisan support of Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA) and ranking member Chaka Fattah (D-PA), and at the urging of Reps. Schiff and John Culberson (R-TX), the Appropriations Committee was able to restore almost $100 million to the planetary science budget, which will include funding for missions to Mars and Jupiter. “The NASA portion of the bill that was just passed goes a long way towards plugging the funding shortfall that threatens our leadership in the exploration of the solar system,” said Rep. Schiff. “We were able to restore almost $100 million in funding for planetary science, which will allow NASA to begin important work on the top priorities of the scientific community – a Mars 2020 rover that will advance the goal of a sample return, and a mission to Jupiter’s moon, Europa. Without continuing work on these missions, we will lose our talented engineers and scientists to other endeavors. And once we lose the talent pool that knows how to land rovers on other planets, it will be extremely difficult to reconstitute.”Schiff continued, “Despite bipartisan and bicameral support for our exploration of Mars and the Outer Planets, the Administration keeps presenting budgets that cannot support our national goals in planetary science and our leadership in exploring the solar system. I am especially pleased that the bill's report contains a specific directive to NASA regarding the 2020 rover and the Jupiter-Europa mission.” In the report on the CJS Appropriations bill, the Committee pushed back strongly against the Administration’s request, saying that the “damaging and disproportionate cuts [were] without justification." Planetary science has largely been regarded as one of NASA’s most efficient and successful programs. The full committee report – detailing funding levels for different missions and programs – can be found here.###
07.17.13	07.17.13 Rep. Schiff To Introduce Legislation Requiring Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court Judges to be Nominated by the President and Confirmed by the Senate Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, announced he will introduce legislation which would require that the 11 judges on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) be nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate. The bill would maintain the 7-year term of service on the FISC."In order to ensure that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court remains a truly independent check on the executive branch, these important judges should be confirmed by the Senate,” said Rep. Schiff. “This move would likely result in a more diverse set of judges on the Court, and strengthen the checks and balances that Congress intended to create when the FISC was established. In light of the significance of the FISA Court opinions, their classified nature and their virtual unreviewability, the American people – through the Senate – should have the opportunity to probe nominees on their Fourth Amendment views and other key matters.”The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) is a special U.S. federal court created by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) of 1978. The FISC is tasked with reviewing and authorizing requests for surveillance authorities for national security purposes. Because of the sensitive nature of these requests, the FISC is a “secret court” and FISC rulings, orders, and other deliberations are highly classified. The FISC was originally composed of seven district judges, from seven different circuits throughout the country, appointed by the Chief Justice of the United States to serve for a maximum of seven years. In 2001, the Patriot Act increased the number of judges on the Court from seven to eleven, with three required to live within 20 miles of the District of Columbia. The Chief Justice appoints a Presiding Judge for the court from amongst these eleven judges, and also appoints three judges to serve on the Court of Review, the venue for government appeals of FISC rulings. As a result of the current selection process, 10 of the 11 judges currently serving on the FISC were appointed to the federal bench by Presidents from one political party.Schiff continued, “While judges often talk of ‘calling balls and strikes,’ the range of this court goes far beyond that – overseeing the constitutionality and scope of the programs, in addition to ruling on individual warrants and cases. This legislation will help ensure we have true checks and balances when it comes to the judges who are given the responsibility of overseeing our most sensitive intelligence gathering and national security programs.”Schiff also recently introduced the Ending Secret Law Act. This bipartisan legislation would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act.
07.10.13	07.10.13 Reps. Schiff, Woodall, and Polis Announce $20 Million in Additional Funding Secured in Appropriations Bill for Cutting-Edge Energy Program Washington, DC – Last night, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Rob Woodall (R-GA) and Jared Polis (D-CO) passed a bipartisan amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations bill which would boost funding for the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) by $20 million, to a total of $70 million a year. Started in 2009, ARPA-E is a revolutionary program that has advanced high-potential, high-impact energy technologies that are too early for private-sector investment.ARPA-E is modeled after an incredibly successful Defense Department program – the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) – which has produced famously successful inventions for the Department of Defense, perhaps most notably the Internet. A key element of both agencies is that managers are limited to fixed terms, so that new blood continuously revitalizes the research portfolio, and new ideas are pushed to the front.“With unrest in the Middle East and an increasing demand for energy both in our country and abroad, we need all of the revolutionary energy ideas we can get,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “While other programs focus on funding technologies that can be deployed soon, ARPA-E focuses on the high-risk, high-reward technologies that have the capacity to completely remake our society and economy, and the cut proposed – over 80% – was simply too much for any agency to absorb. I’m glad that we were able to restore some of this vital funding, and it’s my hope that we can further strengthen our investment in cutting edge research in conference.”“Congress has a responsibility to the American people to be a good steward of their hard-earned tax dollars, and investing in accountable, verifiable game-changing energy solutions for American families achieves that goal,” said Rep. Rob Woodall. “ARPA-E has broad support on both sides of the aisle because it produces results. While we in congress may disagree about whether the federal government should be borrowing more or borrowing less, our amendment ensures that the money we do borrow and spend goes directly toward cutting-edge technology research and American energy security rather than growing an already oversized bureaucracy.”"As a founder of several startup companies before coming to Congress, I understand the value of taking risks to achieve great rewards,” said Rep. Jared Polis. “In order for ARPA-E energy startups to be successful, early support is critical. I was pleased to work with Representatives Schiff and Woodall in order to restore $20 million in much-needed funding to ARPA-E. While it won’t make ARPA-E’s budget whole, it will at least provide additional funding to curb the impacts of the House Energy and Water Appropriations bill’s initial 81% cut of this important program.”The Energy and Water appropriations bill funds ARPA-E at $50 million, $215 million (81%) below the FY13 level and $329 million below the FY14 requested level. This increase is fully paid for with a reduction in the Department Administration account.###
06.27.13	06.27.13 Reps. Adam Schiff, Barbara Lee and Mike Quigley Announce $3 Million in Additional Funding for Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Secured in Appropriations Bill Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Mike Quigley (D-IL) announced that the Appropriations Committee had passed their amendment to the annual Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Bill which would increase funding for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program by $3 million.HOPWA funding provides housing assistance and related supportive services and grantees are encouraged to develop community-wide strategies and form partnerships with area nonprofit organizations. These include, but are not limited to, the acquisition, rehabilitation, or new construction of housing units; costs for facility operations; rental assistance; and short-term payments to prevent homelessness. HOPWA funds also may be used for health care and mental health services, chemical dependency treatment, nutritional services, case management, assistance with daily living, and other supportive services.“HOPWA is one of HUD’s most effective programs and housing has been identified as one of the most important tools to ensure the continuity of treatment for those living with HIV/AIDS,” said Rep. Schiff. “Stable and affordable housing not only reduces the risk of homelessness for individuals living with HIV/AIDS but also improves access to health care and other supportive services. HOPWA funding provides the most vulnerable among us the security of housing and allows them to focus on continuing life-saving drugs and treatments.”“HOPWA is an essential, cost-effective part of our National HIV/AIDS Strategy. Unstable housing and homelessness are not only a barrier to accessing effective treatment, but also increase the risk of new HIV infections, and undermine our HIV prevention efforts, as well as costs all of us more down the road,” said Rep. Lee. “While I am pleased our amendment passed, the HOPWA program, and all other public health and HIV/AIDS programs, continue to be subject to severe and ongoing budget cuts and sequestration. Now is the time to scale-up these programs and sufficiently fund these needed services. Over the last few years, we have made tremendous progress in fighting this disease; we can’t go back now.”“The security HOPWA provides to vulnerable families is a proven and effective tool in the fight against HIV/AIDS,” said Rep. Quigley. “Studies show individuals in stable housing have improved health, are less likely to transmit the virus, and are more likely to adhere to their medications and stay out of emergency rooms, which saves everyone money. I’m thrilled we can increase funding for a vital program that makes economic sense and protects the public’s health.”According to the National AIDS Housing Coalition, it is estimated that with this amendment, over 500 families will be able to apply for and receive HOPWA support – for every $1 million spent, the program supports 171 families. An increase in funding for HOPWA in the THUD Bill was endorsed and supported by the National AIDS Housing Coalition, Federal AIDS Policy Partnership Housing Work Group, AIDS Services Foundation Orange County, Orange County HIV/AIDS Advocacy Team, Project Inform, AIDS Project Los Angeles, and the L.A. Gay and Lesbian Center. ###
06.26.13	06.26.13 Rep. Schiff: Supreme Court Decisions a Huge Day for Cause of Equality Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled that the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) was unconstitutional on equal protection grounds and dismissed a case involving California’s Proposition 8, making marriage equality legal in California again:“Today is a huge day for the cause of equality – by ruling that DOMA is an unconstitutional violation of equal protection, the Court has struck a momentous blow against discrimination and injustice, bringing us closer to our founding principle that all people are created equal. By dismissing the Prop 8 case, the Court has returned marriage equality to California. It’s my hope that clerks will begin issuing marriage licenses to those loving couples wishing to get married as soon as possible.“Love is love, and the fight will not be over until equality under the law – including the right to marry the person you love – is the law of the land in every state in the nation.”Schiff is an original co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, which would require recognition of any marriage performed in any state under federal law, including that of LGBT Americans. He supports full equality for all LGBT Americans to enjoy all the rights and privileges of our nation. Schiff also fought to stop House Republicans from defending DOMA in court – ultimately spending $2.3 million defending an unconstitutional law. During an Appropriations Committee hearing last year, Schiff argued: “Rather than throwing good money after bad, I believe we should accept what is plainly apparent. That DOMA unconstitutionally discriminates against a particular class of Americans, and should be and will be struck down by the Courts. This Committee and this House can stand in the way of that history, or we can jointly recognize the fundamental right of every American to love, and marry whom they choose.”Just yesterday, Schiff met with Paul Katami and Jeff Zarrillo – two of the plaintiffs in the Supreme Court case about California’s Prop 8 from Burbank, CA.###
06.25.13	06.25.13 Rep. Schiff: Deeply Disappointed in Supreme Court Decision Striking Down Part of Voting Rights Act Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act cannot be enforced unless Congress comes up with an up-to-date formula for deciding which states and localities still need federal monitoring:“I’m deeply disappointed that a narrow 5-4 majority of the Supreme Court struck down Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act today. The fact that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act has been an effective tool to protect voting rights is a reason to let it stand, not to end it. I was a member of the House Judiciary Committee in 2006 when we undertook a bipartisan reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act by carefully calibrating the preclearance requirement to states and localities with histories of voting discrimination.“In the wake of the Court’s decision today, Congress must again take up the Voting Rights Act to update the Section 4 coverage formula and ensure that the right of all Americans to participate in the democratic process – regardless of race or ethnicity – is protected.” ###
06.20.13	06.20.13 Reps. Schiff and Rokita Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Declassify Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court Opinions Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Todd Rokita (R-IN) introduced legislation which would shed light on the law governing NSA surveillance programs recently revealed in press reports. This bipartisan bill would require the Attorney General to declassify significant Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) opinions, allowing Americans to know how the Court has interpreted the legal authorities created under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act and Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act."In order to have an informed public debate on the merits of these programs, it is important for the American people to know how such programs have been authorized, their limits and their scope," said Rep. Schiff. "Particularly now that the existence of these programs has been acknowledged, I believe there is much more that can be shared with the public about their legal basis. It is my hope that this legislation will increase transparency and inform the national debate about the surveillance authorities provided to the Intelligence Community. I also believe that requiring additional disclosure would provide another valuable check on any potential expansion of surveillance under these authorities, whether by this or any future Administration.”“This legislation affirms that Americans have a right to know the assumptions and legal interpretations that are guiding our national security decisions. Just as importantly, it provides that information to the public in a way that does not compromise specific security techniques. Our bill will help Congress and the American people exercise proper oversight, while still enabling us to do everything possible within the bounds of the Constitution to protect ourselves from those who would harm us,” said Rep. Rokita.The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) is a special U.S. federal court created by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) of 1978. The FISC is tasked with reviewing and authorizing requests for surveillance authorities for national security purposes, both inside and outside the United States. Because of the sensitive nature of these requests, the FISC is a “secret court” and FISC rulings, orders, and other deliberations are highly classified. As with any court, the FISC's rulings may include substantive interpretations of the law and Congressional intent, and such interpretations determine the extent of the government’s surveillance authority. Much of the Court's orders and rulings are necessarily classified, as they relate to the sources and methods of collection used by intelligence agencies. However, the substantive legal interpretations and constructions made by the FISC can, in many cases, be made public in a format consistent with national security.This legislation includes provisions to address national security concerns. If the Attorney General determines that a Court opinion cannot be declassified without undermining national security interests or the sources and methods of intelligence gathering, the Attorney General can declassify a summary of the opinion. If the Attorney General determines that even a summary of an opinion would undermine national security, the Attorney General is required to provide a report to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees describing the process to be implemented to declassify FISA Court opinions including an estimate of the number of opinions that will be declassified and the number that are expected to be withheld because of national security concerns. This bill is companion legislation to a bill introduced in the Senate by Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Mike Lee (R-UT). The legislation can be found here.
06.14.13	06.14.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Situation in Syria Rep. Schiff Statement on Situation in SyriaWashington, DC –Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, issued the following statement in response to published reports that the U.S. may provide weapons to the Syrian opposition:“What began as an expression of the legitimate aspiration of the Syrian people for better governance has now become a sectarian civil war in which extremist forces like Hezbollah and Iran fight on one side, and groups linked to al Qaeda commit atrocities on the other.“I have grave concerns about the United States becoming an arms provider in this civil war. Supplying small arms and ammunition to certain rebel elements may help to stabilize the situation on the battlefield in the near term, but it will not alter the strategic balance. If and when this proves to be insufficient to affect the outcome, we will undoubtedly be called upon to provide even more powerful weaponry, to establish a no fly zone, or to risk American lives.“The President is right to condemn the Assad regime's use of chemical weapons and we should work with the international community and Syrian opposition to degrade the regime's capacity to utilize those weapons and hold those who have responsible as war criminals. We must be also be unstinting in our support of our regional partners who are hosting hundreds of thousands of refugees, and provide humanitarian parole to the many Syrian refugees with family in the United States who have approved immigration petitions. Finally, we should remain focused on a political settlement. “Ultimately, this conflict cannot be solved by force, and we need to work to ensure that Geneva is the beginning of serious negotiations.”
06.10.13	06.10.13 Rep. Adam Schiff To Introduce Legislation to Sunset Authorization for Use of Military Force Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, announced that he was introducing legislation tomorrow – before the debate on the National Defense Authorization Act begins this week – that would sunset the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) beginning in 2015. Following the September 11 attacks, the Congress passed the Authorization for Use of Military Force to provide the President with requisite authorization to use “force against those nations, organizations, or persons he determines planned, authorized, committed, or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, or harbored such organizations or persons, in order to prevent any future acts of international terrorism against the United States by such nations, organizations or persons.”Schiff's legislation finds that the Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF) now poorly defines those who pose a threat to the country, and that it should expire concurrent with the end of our combat role in Afghanistan. The bill sunsets the AUMF effective December 31, 2014.“When Congress passed the AUMF shortly after 9/11, we did not intend to authorize a war without end,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “The cessation of our combat mission in Afghanistan next year is a logical end point for an authorization that now provides a poor description of the groups which threaten us, and an increasingly precarious legal rationale for going after them. As the President observed recently, if we don't define the nature of the threat we face, it will define us.”Since the AUMF passed, the U.S. has invaded Afghanistan, toppling the Taliban and routing the core of Al Qaeda. The authorization has also been used to support targeted strikes against Al Qaeda's operatives in other countries, and used as a basis to detain terrorists at the facility at Guantanamo Bay.The country now face threats from individuals, entities and organizations that may affiliate with al Qaeda, or share its ideology and its determination to attack Americans, but which may not have even been in existence on September 11, 2001. With the withdrawal of U.S. combat troops from Afghanistan and the transition to Afghan national security forces at the end of 2014, it is time for the President and Congress to work together to determine a proper legal basis for protecting the country going forward. The bill will effectively give Congress the next 18 months to do so.In his recent speech at the National Defense University, President Obama specifically called on Congress to work with him. “I look forward to engaging Congress and the American people in efforts to refine, and ultimately repeal, the AUMF’s mandate,” Obama said. “And I will not sign laws designed to expand this mandate further. Our systematic effort to dismantle terrorist organizations must continue. But this war, like all wars, must end.”Schiff’s legislation can be found here.###
06.10.13	06.10.13 Rep. Schiff to Host Congressional Field Hearing on Helicopter Noise with FAA, Homeowners and Helicopter Pilots Los Angeles, CA – On Monday, June 10, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) will host a Congressional field hearing with representatives from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), homeowners and helicopter pilots to discuss a recent FAA report on the problem of helicopter noise across Los Angeles County. Schiff and Congressional colleagues requested the report in order to develop solutions to the problem of excessive helicopter noise in residential areas. Homeowners have long complained of the disruptions caused by all sorts of helicopter traffic – from news choppers, paparazzi, tour operators and public safety agencies. The noise pollution emanating from these low-flying helicopters is concentrated to high decibel levels by the unique terrain of canyons and valleys in the County. The focused and concentrated noise drown out normal conversations and can disturb normal sleep cycles. Schiff and his Congressional colleagues have introduced the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act (H.R. 456), which would require the FAA to set regulations relating to flight paths and altitudes for helicopter flights in Los Angeles County. First, representatives from the FAA will present the findings in their recently completed report on helicopter noise issues in Los Angeles County. Then a panel of elected officials, including Rep. Schiff, Rep. Tony Cardenas and Los Angeles County Supervisor Zev Yaroslvasky will question the FAA about the report and the problem. Then separate panels of representatives from homeowners groups and representatives from the helicopter industry will have the opportunity to question the FAA and share their views on the issue. WHO: Congressmen Adam Schiff and Tony CardenasSupervisor Zev YaroslavskyRepresentatives from the Federal Aviation AdministrationRepresentatives from homeowners associationsRepresentatives from the helicopter industry WHAT: Congressman Adam Schiff hosts a congressional field hearing to discuss helicopter noise with other elected officials, homeowners, the helicopter industry and representatives from the Federal Aviation Administration WHEN: Monday, June 10, 7:00 p.m.; MEDIA AVAILABILITY: 6:30 p.m. WHERE: Wells Fargo Theatre, Autry National Center4700 Western Heritage Way (Griffith Park),Los Angeles, CA 90027
06.05.13	06.05.13 Rep. Schiff Applauds Release of West Hollywood Filmmaker Tim Tracy from Venezuelan Prison West Hollywood, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the chair of the Freedom of the Press Caucus, issued the following statement after one of his West Hollywood constituents was released from custody by Venezuelan government:“I was very pleased to learn that the Venezuelan government has released Tim Tracy, a documentary filmmaker, after detaining him on trumped up charges. Mr. Tracy is thankfully on his way back to the United States this morning. His arrest and detention should serve as a powerful reminder of the need to guard our press freedoms vigorously at home and abroad."###
06.05.13	06.05.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Announcement of Susan Rice as Next National Security Advisor Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after it was reported that President Obama would nominate current U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice as the next National Security Advisor:“President Obama will continue a top notch national security team with today’s announcement that Susan Rice, our superb ambassador to the United Nations, will replace Tom Donilon as national security advisor. Ambassador Rice brings a wealth of experience, creativity and toughness to the White House and her ability to manage the interagency process will be strengthened by her long service to the President. At a time when we face a diverse set of foreign policy challenges and opportunities, the President has made an excellent choice. “I am also delighted that the President has nominated Samantha Power to be our new ambassador to the United Nations. Dr. Power is a world-renowned expert on the issue of genocide and will bring that expertise and a broad array of skills with her to New York.” ###
06.04.13	06.04.13 Rep. Schiff and Senator Feinstein Announce Critical New U.S. Forest Service Tool to Battle Wildfires – Night-Flying Helicopter Los Angeles, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) announced the U.S. Forest Service now has available a specifically equipped helicopter to combat wildfires at night. Four years ago, during the Station Fire – the largest wildfire in Los Angeles county history – the potentially critical night flying tool was not available to the Forest Service. As a result, questions remain as to whether such a capability might have helped contain the fire on the critical first night of the fire. Due to a restriction put in place by the Forest Service in the 1970s following a tragic helicopter crash in the Angeles National Forest, the agency has not employed night flights, and instead, has relied upon other local agencies to supply these firefighting tools when available.“We will never know for certain if night flying could have extinguished the Station Fire in those critical early hours, but adding this capability will give us a better chance in future wildfires to protect residents’ houses, precious natural resources and, most importantly, lives,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “The restoration of this capability by the Forest Service – though long overdue – could not come at a more critical time, with one wildfire burning across Southern California and more expected throughout the summer. Also, sequestration will mean that 200,000 fewer acres are treated with hazardous fuel mitigation and will be even more vulnerable to fire” After the Station Fire, Schiff and other legislators requested that Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on the federal response. That report indicated that the use of night-flying aircraft may have allowed the Forest Service to suppress the Station Fire on the critical first night and concluded that the Forest Service both failed to use all potentially available aircraft early in the blaze and needed to develop a strategy for when night missions should be flown. In response to the report and Station Fire, the agency took steps to expand night flying, including the use of turbine-powered single-engine night-flying aircraft, including helicopters, which had previously been prohibited. “With California suffering through a severe drought, this year’s wildfire season could be especially dangerous,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein. “That’s why I told Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell at a recent Senate hearing that he must make every firefighting resource available. Attacking wildfires at night from the air—when temperatures and winds are down and humidity is up—is an important tool, so resumption of Forest Service flights comes not a moment too soon. As California grows hotter and dryer, we must make every effort to quickly contain wildfires, and nighttime aerial firefighting is a big part of that effort.”Other agencies, including Los Angeles City and County fire departments, and agencies in San Diego, Ventura, Santa Barbara and Kern Counties, have employed night flying tactics to great success and routinely use aircraft to douse flames at night, including the use of helicopters and planes. “The re-introduction of Forest Service night helicopter firefighting operations in Southern California further establishes the agency’s commitment to protect lives and property in the region,” said U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell. “California has already experienced wildfires this season, and is projected to continue to have a challenging summer. Night flying operations will provide an aggressive agency initial attack while better ensuring public safety, minimizing overall fire costs and lessening impacts to communities.”Since August 2012, the Forest Service has conducted training of its pilots, crew and support staff for night-flying, and the process is now complete. Starting this week, the agency will finally begin employing a helicopter at night in order to battle blazes across the Los Angeles area. The helicopter and its crew will be based out of Fox Field in Lancaster, California.
05.31.13	05.31.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on FAA Report on the Serious Problem of Helicopter Noise Los Angeles, CA – Late this afternoon, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) released their long-awaited report discussing the serious problem of helicopter noise across Los Angeles. Schiff and other elected officials will host a Congressional field hearing with representatives from the FAA, homeowners and helicopter pilots to discuss the FAA report on Monday, June 10. The FAA report was requested by Schiff and his colleagues to help develop solutions to the problem of excessive helicopter noise in residential areas.Homeowners have long complained of the disruptions caused by all sorts of helicopter traffic – from news choppers, paparazzi, tour operators and public safety agencies. The noise pollution emanating from these low-flying helicopters is concentrated to high decibel levels by the unique terrain of canyons and valleys in the County. The focused and concentrated noise drowns out normal conversations and can disturb sleep cycles. Schiff and his colleagues have introduced the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act (H.R. 456), which would require the FAA to set regulations relating to flight paths and altitudes for helicopter flights in Los Angeles County. “The just released FAA report makes it clear that helicopter noise is a real and serious problem in Los Angeles County that must be addressed. The report recommends several steps to minimize helicopter noise, but not surprisingly, stops short of recommending regulatory action opposed by industry. Voluntary measures in the past have provided little relief for residents, and I am skeptical that without a determined effort to oversee them by the FAA that they will do so now. But I look forward to our field hearing with the FAA in June as an opportunity to flesh out the FAA's analysis and recommendations with all of the affected stakeholders. I will be particularly interested in whether the FAA will commit to undertaking regulatory action if the implementation of voluntary measures once again proves inadequate to the task of providing the noise relief residents have every right to expect and demand.”At the field hearing, representatives from the FAA will present their findings on helicopter noise issues in Los Angeles County. Then a panel of elected officials, including Rep. Schiff, Rep. Tony Cardenas and Los Angeles County Supervisor Zev Yaroslvasky will question the FAA about the report and the problem. Following that, separate panels of representatives from homeowners groups and representatives from the helicopter industry will have the opportunity to question the FAA and share their views on the issue.The report can be viewed here.
05.30.13	05.30.13 Rep. Schiff, Local Leaders Call on Metrolink to Undertake a Health Risk Assessment of Taylor Yards Facility Los Angeles, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) hosted a press conference along with Elysian Valley and Cypress Park leaders, Los Angeles Councilmember-Elect Mitch O’Farrell and over fifty community members to urge Metrolink to undertake a health risk assessment of their Taylor Yards facility in the Elysian Valley. For years, residents have expressed concern about the impact of Metrolink trains on their health, given that the trains idle for long periods of time in the yard emitting Diesel Particulate Matter (DPM). According to the EPA, DPM, even in small exposures, can cause eye, nose, throat and lung irritation, as well as cause nausea and exacerbate asthma. Long-term exposure to DPM can result in lung inflammation and based upon human and laboratory studies there is considerable evidence that diesel exhaust is a likely carcinogen. In remarks at the press conference, Schiff stated: “For years Elysian Valley and Cypress Park residents have expressed concern about operations at Taylor Yards, that running Metrolink’s trains to clean and maintain them during the day is noisy and emits Diesel Particulate Matter. Metrolink has consistently failed to address community fears about the health risk of living near the facility and stonewalled calls for a health assessment. We are calling on Metrolink – for what we hope will be the final time – to commit today to a health risk assessment of the health impacts of emissions from their diesel trains.”"At my urging, Metrolink, has worked to address some of the communities’ concerns by beginning the process of acquiring cleaner trains, and committing to powering more trains with electricity, so that the trains can be cleaned and maintained without idling. While I appreciate these steps, they are not a substitute for getting an honest assessment of the current health risks to the community and a sense of what additional steps may be necessary to protect the public."Two local residents also spoke at the press conference about their health concerns. First, Blaire Lennane, the President of Partners of Dorris Place Elementary, discussed the significant increase in the frequency of asthma among children who attend the school. Asthma can prevent children from participating in athletic activities with their peers and enjoying outdoor adventures with their friends – something all children should be able to enjoy free of worry for their health.Another resident, Cecilia Dominguez, lost her husband last year after he developed pulmonary fibrosis which she believes was aggravated by the diesel pollution from the facility. Rey bicycled around the LA River Path near the yard on a daily basis. But in the early 2000s he began to seek medical attention for a persistent cough. In 2008 he was diagnosed with pulmonary fibrosis, an incurable disease in which lung tissues become thickened, stiff and scarred. Eventually his lungs could no longer function adequately and he passed away last September. Pulmonary fibrosis is not genetically inherited – it often results from inhaling dust contaminated with occupational chemicals, bacterial, fungal or animal products. Cecilia believes the rail yard may have had an impact on the progression of her husband's disease.“As a Councilmember, I will demand nothing less than a health risk assessment, because if we don’t have a baseline of where we are now, then we won’t know how to proceed,” said Los Angeles City Councilmember-elect Mitch O’Farrell at the press conference. “I hope that the next time we’re all standing here is weeks from now – as opposed to months – announcing with Metrolink that a health risk assessment is underway. I will do everything in my power to demand nothing less than a health risk assessment – it’s the right thing to do and it’s about time.”“I urge Metrolink to take seriously the community’s request to conduct a health risk assessment of the Central Maintenance Facility in Cypress Park,” said Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. “Area residents deserve as expeditious a process and response as possible to address their air quality and noise concerns. I appreciate the important changes the Metrolink Board of Directors has already implemented at the facility to reduce noise and pollutants. I look forward to continue working with Metrolink on improvements to their operations that will further benefit the community.”Residents for years have expressed concern about the impact of DPM on their community and children. The residents have worked with Metrolink to take a number of steps to cut down on the idling, reduce pollution and minimize noise disruptions. One such step allows Metrolink to clean the trains and conduct some other maintenance activities without idling. Metrolink has also committed to charge more trains through electrical outlets, alleviating the need to run secondary train engines to electrify cars for cleaning and maintenance.But the community and Rep. Schiff have repeatedly asked Metrolink to undertake a health risk assessment. Thus far, Metrolink has opposed these requests.
05.22.13	05.22.13 Reps. Schiff and Sherman Introduce Legislation to Allow Bob Hope, Van Nuys Airports to Adopt Nighttime Curfews Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Brad Sherman (D-Sherman Oaks) reintroduced the Valley-Wide Noise Relief Act to allow Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports to adopt curfews and minimize airport noise. In 2011, the legislators attempted to attach the curfew legislation to reauthorization funding for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The measure attracted bipartisan support but failed to get the necessary votes for passage. The push in Congress began after the FAA in 2009 rejected a 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. curfew at Bob Hope Airport claiming that it would "create an undue burden on commerce."“The legislation introduced today would give residents relief from the noise associated with late night and early morning air traffic.” said Rep. Schiff. “Valley residents living under the flight paths and in close proximity to the terminals have had to put up with this sleep-disruptive noise for many years, and it is time to provide relief. We hope to build on last year's bipartisan support for the measure in the House, and push for passage.”“I am pleased to join with Congressman Schiff in re-introducing the Valley-Wide Noise Relief Act,” said Rep. Sherman. “Valley residents living under the flight paths near Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports should be able to enjoy a restful night without the roar of jet engines waking them up in the middle of the night. We are committed to achieving a solution that ultimately reduces or eliminates nighttime noise within the communities that have fought for relief for decades.”The legislation would clarify that these two airports should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act, like other similarly situated airports were at the time of its passage. In the case of the Bob Hope Airport, this was one of the first airports in the country to impose a curfew. The Van Nuys curfew was a partial curfew that applied to some, but not all, operators. The language would allow Burbank and Van Nuys Airports to adopt non-discriminatory curfews applicable to operators from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m.“On behalf of the City of Burbank and the Council, I wish to express the City’s continuing support of a legislative solution to allow a nighttime curfew at Bob Hope Airport for the protection of not just Burbank citizens, but the entire valley,” said Burbank Mayor Emily Gabel-Luddy. “Support of this legislation is another piece of the City's ongoing 40-year effort to protect the nighttime noise environment. We appreciate Congressmen Schiff’s and Sherman’s leadership in seeking nighttime noise protection. I will remain available, as I am sure the whole Council will, to securing a permanent solution."Dan Feger, the Executive Director of Bob Hope Airport added, “The Authority remains committed to supporting the City of Burbank in its effort, through Congressmen Schiff and Sherman, to pursue a legislative approach to nighttime noise protection for the community.”The legislation would apply only to airports that already had at least a partial curfew in effect before 1990 when Airport Noise and Capacity Act (ANCA), legislation that established national aviation noise standards nationwide, was enacted. This narrow legislation is designed to address the omission of not allowing curfews at these two airports, but is not intended to open the door to any further exemptions from that Act.###
05.21.13	05.21.13 Rep. Schiff Announces Winners of Congressional Art Competition Burbank, CA – This weekend, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) hosted the annual 28th District Congressional Art Competition Forum and Exhibit at Van De Kamp Hall in Descanso Gardens. During the exhibit, attended by more than 200 students, teachers and parents, Schiff announced that Joshua Dominic Macapagal’s piece “The other side of cool” had won first place and will be included in the nationwide Congressional Arts Competition: An Artistic Discovery in Washington, D.C. His artwork will hang in the United States Capitol for one year, along with that of other winners from around the nation. Macapagal is from Burbank and attends Burbank High School.Additionally, Schiff announced that Nick Ottaviano, a student from Los Feliz attending Flintridge Preparatory School, and Vardui Grigoryan, a student from Glendale attending Clark Magnet High School, had won second and third place, respectively. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Nelli Astvatsatrian, a student from Glendale attending Clark Magnet High School. Almost 3,000 constituents voted in the online contest this year. “Every year, I get the opportunity to see some absolutely amazing artwork submitted by high school students from across our community,” said Schiff. “All of the students involved deserve recognition for their hard work and exceptional talent, and I hope that they will all continue to enrich us with their artwork. I particularly want to congratulate Joshua, Nick, Vardui and Nelli on being named the winners, and look forward to enjoying their artwork in the Capitol and my offices throughout the coming year. Great job to everyone!”Mr. Macapagal’s artwork was awarded first prize by a panel of local judges for his oil painting entitled “The other side of cool.” He attends Burbank High School in the 11th grade and is from Burbank. His work will hang in the Capitol for the next year. Second place was awarded to Nick Ottaviano, who attends Flintridge Preparatory School in the 12th grade and is from Los Feliz, for his photograph titled “Exposure.” Mr. Ottaviano’s artwork will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, D.C. office for one year. Third place was awarded to Vardui Grigoryan, who attends Clark Magnet High School in the 10th grade and is from Glendale, for her digital painting titled “Untitled.” Her artwork will hang in Schiff’s Burbank office. Schiff also awarded the “People’s Choice” award to Nelli Astvatsatrian, who attends Clark Magnet High School in the 10th grade and is from Glendale, for her graphite pencil sketch on wood titled “A Silent Shout.” All pieces of artwork can be found here.The judges serving on the panel to award the different prizes included Nyla Arslanian, Monica Elayne Hicks-Jenkins and Kellye Nakahara Wallett:Nyla Arslanian is one of Hollywood’s strongest advocates for the arts. President of the Hollywood Arts Council since 1984, Nyla created many of the Council’s programs including the Children’s Festival of the Arts and its Project S.O.A.R., after school art workshops conducted in six of Hollywood’s Title 1 elementary schools. Through her leadership, the Council has brought the arts to over 15,000 elementary school children and nearly 70,000 at its annual Children’s Festival.Monica Elayne Hicks-Jenkins is the Communications Associate at McGroarty Arts Center in Tujunga, California, and is a working artist, arts educator, and radio show host. She currently has work in the country of Kinshasa as a part of the ART in Embassies Program. Monica holds a B.A. in Studio Arts from the University of California, Irvine and a M.F.A. in Visual Art from the California Institute of the Arts.Kellye Nakahara Wallett, watercolor artist, is also known for her role as “Nurse Kellye” in the TV series “M*A*S*H.” Kellye’s collection “The Gardens of Pasadena” features historical landmarks and gardens in Pasadena, and her paintings are on display at Pasadena City Hall. Her painting “Koi” was selected by then-State Senator Jack Scott in 2001 to represent his district in an exhibition at the State Capitol. In 2008, Kellye was invited by Congressman Adam Schiff to paint a Christmas Ornament for the Official White House Christmas Tree in the Blue Room. Kellye served on Pasadena’s Arts and Culture Commission for 6 years and is currently the Artist in Residence for the Towne Hall Singers.This year, there were 50 entries representing 19 high schools in the 28th Congressional District. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Recognition from Congressman Schiff. The Congressional Arts Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition.Photos of each of the winners and Congressman Schiff can be viewed here: First place, Joshua Dominic Macapagal; second place, Nick Ottaviano; third place, Vardui Grigoryan; and People’s Choice winner, Nelli Astvatsatrian.
05.16.13	05.16.13 Reps. Schiff and Grimm Introduce Bipartisan Resolution to Recognize the Armenian Genocide Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Michael Grimm (R-NY), along with David Valadao (R-CA) and Frank Pallone (D-NJ), introduced a bipartisan House Resolution recognizing and commemorating the Armenian Genocide in the House of Representatives. The resolution calls upon the President to work toward equitable, constructive, and durable Armenian-Turkish relations based upon the Republic of Turkey's full acknowledgement of the facts and ongoing consequences of the Armenian Genocide, and a fair, just, and comprehensive international resolution of this crime against humanity.“The facts of history are well-settled – 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children were deliberately murdered in the first genocide of the 20th Century,” Rep. Schiff said. “With each passing day, we lose a few more of the dwindling number of survivors. We should all feel a powerful sense of urgency, and the profound call of moral duty to recognize the Armenian Genocide unequivocally and without delay.”“Almost a century ago, over a million Armenian men, women, and innocent children were mercilessly put to death by forces of the Ottoman Empire in a horrifying attempt to wipe them from the face of the earth,” said Rep. Grimm. “The U.S. has tirelessly defended justice and human rights throughout the world, and we have a solemn duty to recognize, once and for all, the injustices of the Armenian Genocide. On behalf of the Armenian community in New York City, I am proud to join with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in introducing Armenian Genocide Truth and Justice Act.”Congressman Valadao stated, “Many of those able to flee during the genocide immigrated to the United States and settled in California. Today, their families continue to grow, thrive, and instill their cultural heritage in their adopted communities. However, the sense of loss as a result of these horrific acts runs deep as many Armenian-Americans in my district personally know a friend or family member who was unable to escape the genocide. We must ensure that the United States government properly acknowledges what so many already know to be true.”“The time for the U.S. to officially recognize the Armenian Genocide is long overdue,” said Congressman Frank Pallone, Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues. “Armenia stands as a resilient ally of the United States and a nation dedicated to democracy and regional stability, and the Resolution introduced today shows that we will not stand idly by when the truth of this genocide is distorted by the Turkish government.”Ninety-eight years ago, the systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign was launched by the government of the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than 20 nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades. ###
05.14.13	05.14.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on IRS Selective Enforcement Actions Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior member of the Intelligence Committee, issued the following statement in response to allegations that the IRS has engaged in the targeted scrutiny of certain tax-exempt 501(c)4 social welfare groups:“The Internal Revenue Service must enforce the tax code in a neutral and nonpartisan way. Any politicization of tax enforcement is abhorrent and should be viewed as a grave offense. These allegations must be investigated to the fullest extent and dealt with appropriately. “I first raised the issue of selective enforcement by the IRS during the Bush Administration, when the agency audited All Saints Episcopal Church of Pasadena based on the content of a particular church service. After a former pastor gave an anti-Iraq War sermon, All Saints became the target of an aggressive IRS investigation in which the church’s tax-exempt status was threatened. At the time, I could find only one Republican colleague, Rep. Walter Jones, that would join me in calling for an investigation. The IRS targeting of certain organizations on the basis of their ideology is anathema, deeply chilling to free speech and cannot be tolerated."The need to investigate these allegations thoroughly and to hold accountable those responsible, however, must not obscure the fact that many of the so-called "social welfare" organizations which have multiplied since Citizens United are a sham that should lose their tax exempt status. Some of these organizations are undeniably and overwhelmingly political, and merely seek to use the tax code to shelter their operations from scrutiny and to avoid disclosure of their donors. The IRS must enforce the law fairly and with no regard for ideology, but they must enforce the law."Congress should do what I called for back in 2005 – undertake a thorough review of how the IRS interprets and enforces the law when it comes to tax-exempt organizations, and examine whether existing laws and regulations need to be updated to draw a brighter line. Congress should also act to require disclosure of contributions to remove the incentive for partisan organizations to abuse the tax code for the sole purpose of avoiding transparency in the political process.”
05.07.13	05.07.13 Reps. Adam Schiff and Judy Chu Introduce Legislation to Ensure Cities Can Qualify for Federal Disaster Relief After Major Storms Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) and Judy Chu (D-El Monte) introduced legislation that would fix the problems that Pasadena and other cities in the Southern California faced in qualifying for federal disaster relief from the devastating windstorms of November and December 2011. Currently, small and medium sized communities located in large states like California have a particularly difficult time reaching the state-wide and county-wide thresholds needed to qualify for federal disaster relief. This legislation would direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to take into account the ability of small and medium sized communities in large counties and in large states to recover from natural disasters.“After the devastating windstorms two years ago, medium-sized cities like Pasadena and Temple City were unable to access essential federal disaster relief merely because they are in a large county and state,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “Natural disasters don’t choose to fall only in cities that are able to apply for federal assistance – they strike indiscriminately and without warning. We need to reform the process so small and medium-sized cities in more populous states like California are not penalized when it comes to getting much-needed disaster aid. While this legislation won’t help the Foothills recoup money they had to spend recovering from the last storm, it will hopefully prevent that from happening to these and other communities in the future."“The American people deserve aid in the wake of natural disasters, regardless of where they live,” said Rep. Judy Chu. “The notion that some communities are more deserving of federal dollars than others based on the size of the county they are located in is simply unacceptable. That’s why I’m proud to introduce legislation to ensure no community faces the same bureaucratic hurdles that cities in the San Gabriel Valley faced following the windstorms of 2011. Just as natural disasters don’t choose their victims, our government shouldn’t pick and choose between those in need.”“The windstorms in Pasadena cost the community over $14 million in damages at a time when we could least afford it,” said Pasadena Mayor Bill Bogaard. “While we thought that we were deserving of federal disaster assistance, our level of damages did not meet current FEMA thresholds. We are pleased that this measure would make it more equitable for areas like Pasadena – small and medium-sized communities in high population states – when they are seeking vital disaster assistance in the future. We are grateful for Congressman Schiff and Congresswoman Chu’s efforts on these important matters and offer them our full support.”Specifically, the bill would direct FEMA to take into account more than just the county-wide per capita threshold in evaluating a governor’s request under the “localized impacts” factor in the federal regulations. FEMA would consider the damage suffered by communities with up to 250,000 people located in counties with at least 1 million people in states with at least 5 million people, if the damage sustained by those communities is in excess of 10 percent of the communities’ General Fund or if the damage exceeds $100 per capita in those communities. In Pasadena alone, the damage was estimated to be $125 per capita.This legislation would make it easier for FEMA to award federal disaster relief under the expanded “localized impacts” criteria for a small number of communities that fail to receive federal disaster relief if they do not meet the state-wide and county-wide damage threshold levels because the calculation of these thresholds on a per capita basis punishes these communities for being located in large counties in large states. It would help make it much easier for communities, such as Pasadena and Glendale, to receive federal disaster relief if they were to suffer levels of damage similar to what our communities saw in the wake of the windstorm.
05.06.13	05.06.13 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual Art Contest with Online Voting for "People's Choice" Winner Burbank, CA– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he will host the annual Congressional Art Competition Forum & Exhibit for the 28th District, featuring high school students’ artwork from the region, on Sunday, May 19. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual contest, with submissions from across the country. The winner from each Congressional District has their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. In addition, he has opened up the competition with a “People’s Choice” award, which will be decided through an online vote.To vote for the “People’s Choice,” constituents should go to Schiff’s website. Voting will be open from Monday, May 6th through Wednesday, May 15th.“Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity displayed in the art I receive from high school students across the 28th Congressional District. Last year, the ‘People’s Choice’ competition was such a success, that we decided to continue the tradition this year. Students, their families and constituents from across our community will be able to weigh in, just like the panel of judges, and pick the ‘People’s Choice’ winner online,” said Schiff.“I look forward to seeing all the entries and welcoming artists and their families at the exhibition. Go to my website and vote – I’m excited to see who my constituents pick as the winner.”The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition.The first place winner’s artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, the piece awarded second place will hang in the Congressman's Washington, D.C. office for one year, and the piece awarded third place will hang in his Burbank District Office for one year. The “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will also be displayed in Schiff’s Washington, D.C. office.The winners of the contest will be announced at the 28th Congressional High School Art Competition Forum & Exhibit on Sunday, May 19, 2013. All student participants will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition. The exhibit will be held at Descanso Gardens in La Cañada Flintridge at Van de Kamp Hall located at 1418 Descanso Drive, La Cañada Flintridge, CA 91011. Parking and admission to Van de Kamp Hall are free.Exhibit viewing will begin at 3:00 pm and the Forum and Awards Presentation will take place at 5:00 pm. Light refreshments will be served.To RSVP, please contact Teresa Lamb Simpson in Rep. Schiff’s Burbank District Office at (818) 450 -2900 or (323) 315-5555.###
05.03.13	05.03.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on World Press Freedom Day Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, released the following statement on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day:“For the past two decades, World Press Freedom Day has served to remind us of the vital importance of the freedom of the press to human rights, good governance and freedom. Every day, in countries with repressive regimes, overreaching governments or in war zones, journalists put their lives on the line to cover the stories that need to be told. They do so at their own peril, risking their freedom and sometimes their very lives.“Sadly, since the creation of World Press Freedom Day, the date has also served as a reminder of the dangers that journalists face, the shortcomings in our work to protect them, and the heroes whose lives were lost. For those in Congress who care about this issue, it’s a stark reminder that our work is far from done, and we must continue to call out oppressive regimes and work to provide the training necessary for journalists to be able to do their jobs in as safe a manner as possible. “It’s important to note that press freedom no longer just applies to traditional press outlets – print, television and radio – but has expanded to a new frontier of online activists, netizens and citizen journalists, who put their lives on the line every day. Even though they do not fit the traditional definition of journalists, their work is no less important, and in countries like Syria – struggling with an ongoing civil war – their work has often been the only reliable source of reporting on a regime’s brutal crackdowns and violence against its own people.“While progress is being made on the press freedom front, we’ve also seen that the percentage of people worldwide who enjoy a free media environment has fallen to its lowest point in more than a decade. According to Freedom House – only 14% of the world live in a country that have a truly free press, and according to Reporters Without Borders, 2013 has already seen a good deal of bloodshed for journalists – 19 traditional journalists and another 9 netizens and citizen journalists have been killed; 174 journalists and 162 netizens and citizen journalists have been imprisoned. 2012 was no less bloody, with 90 journalists, 6 media assistants and 48 netizens and citizens journalists killed. But even though these yearly reports are troubling, there are still reasons for optimism.“New governments in West Africa have shown greater respect for press freedom and have cut down on their legal and physical harassment of journalists. We’ve seen improvements in the Caucasus region and Mexico has passed critical legislation to protect journalists and give officials the authority to prosecute crimes against the press. And the Burmese people now have more access to free information and the government has released many of imprisoned bloggers and video journalists.“Simply showing up for work should never be a cause for harassment, intimidation or worse. I want to ‘shine the light’ on one particularly troubling situation.“Turkey has become one of the world’s largest prisons for journalists, with more than sixty members of the press behind bars on dubious charges. Currently a number of journalists are on trial in the ‘Ergenekon’ conspiracy trial – along with more than 300 others ranging from politicians and academics to retired military officers – in which the Turkish government is trying to crack down on secular opposition to the Islamic government, including journalists who criticized the prosecutions and questioned the reach of the investigation. Their crimes are nothing more than reporting and writing columns that do not toe the ruling government’s party line – not crimes deserving of imprisonment, let alone life sentences. Turkey must embrace the full mantle of democracy, rather than selectively choosing which freedoms to allow and which to shamefully ignore.“The U.S. government will continue to work with its international partners to promote freedom in all its forms – including press freedom. While we in this country take for granted a free press who can report on anything, for the majority of the world, it’s still an everyday struggle. Today, we must take time to pay tribute to those journalists across the globe, saluting their never-ending bravery and reflecting on the importance of their work to advance the most basic human right – freedom.”Information on the Caucus: The Press Freedom Caucus is a bipartisan caucus aimed at advancing press freedom around the world. The Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, chaired by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), creates a forum to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world. ###
04.30.13	04.30.13 Rep. Schiff Calls on Postal Service to Keep Glenoaks Post Office in Burbank Open Reportedly, the USPS Plans to Close Location Within the Next Few MonthsBurbank, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) called on U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe to keep the Glenoaks Post Office in Burbank open. There have been indications that the USPS was planning on closing this facility within the next few months. While the Postal Service has not made a final determination on closing the facility, it is clear that they are moving ahead with potential closures and consolidations throughout the Los Angeles area, and this would not be the first time that the USPS has denied accounts of a closure only to shutter the facility. Recently, USPS has consolidated two facilities in Pasadena and the City of Industry, and reported it will close the Glendale Post Office on Broadway.“I was deeply disappointed to learn that the USPS was considering closing the Glenoaks facility in Burbank,” said Rep. Schiff. “Regrettably, USPS continues to follow a misguided strategy of closing locations and degrading quality in the hope of balancing its books, rather than working with Congress to pursue a larger, more comprehensive approach to its financial health. The closure of yet another facility will only hamper local residents’ ability to access the mail and hurt local businesses, when the real root of USPS' financial problems stem from a multi-billion dollar prefunding obligation imposed on this agency alone and the overpayment of billions to the federal government.”Schiff is a sponsor of the Postal Service Protection Act (H.R. 630), which would allow the USPS to use the funds it has previously overpaid in retirement benefit liabilities to meet the prefunding requirement. Schiff also recently sent a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe urging him to reconsider his decision.In the letter, Schiff writes: “First, closing the Glenoaks Post Office would leave Burbank with only two full service Post Offices. While smaller post offices would still continue to operate in the City, those post offices would not offer City residents and businesses the same level of service as the Glenoaks Post Office and as a result residents and business owners would suffer a significant degradation in service. Small business owners and families who rely on the Post Office on a daily basis to help their firms grow, or to receive prescription medication, will likely have to travel far to conduct their business with USPS. “Second, this step is misguided not only because it will negatively affect the services USPS provides the community, but also because closing this Post Office and others will not achieve anywhere near the level of cost savings that USPS needs to improve its fiscal health. USPS faces an annual multibillion dollar operating deficit, but selling Post Offices will do little compared to the scale of the financial challenges USPS faces. Instead, they will merely degrade the quality of service and further debilitate an important and historic part of American life.”The full letter is below: The Honorable Patrick R. DonahoePostmaster GeneralU.S. Postal Service475 L'Enfant Plaza, SWWashington, DC 20260-0010 Mr. Donahoe,As you know, the United States Postal Service (USPS) recently announced that it would shortly be closing the Glenoaks Post Office located at 1634 N. San Fernando Blvd., Burbank, CA 91504. I strongly urge USPS not to proceed with this closure.First, closing the Glenoaks Post Office would leave Burbank with only two full service Post Offices. While smaller post offices would still continue to operate in the City, those post offices would not offer City residents and businesses the same level of service as the Glenoaks Post Office and as a result residents and business owners would suffer a significant degradation in service. Small business owners and families who rely on the Post Office on a daily basis to help their firms grow, or to receive prescription medication, will likely have to travel far to conduct their business with USPS.Second, this step is misguided not only because it will negatively affect the services USPS provides the community, but also because closing this Post Office and others will not achieve anywhere near the level of cost savings that USPS needs to improve its fiscal health. USPS faces an annual multibillion dollar operating deficit, but selling Post Offices will do little compared to the scale of the financial challenges USPS faces. Instead, they will merely degrade the quality of service and further debilitate an important and historic part of American life. Instead of selling the Post Office on Glenoaks and other post offices across the region and the country, USPS should be pursuing a larger, more comprehensive approach to its financial health, while minimizing service reductions and the loss of local jobs. The current legal requirement that USPS prefund its retirement health benefit program by $5.5 billion per year is one of the largest sources of USPS’s financial woes. USPS should use the funds it has previously overpaid in retirement benefit liabilities to meet the prefunding requirement. The Postal Service Protection Act (H.R. 630), of which I am a cosponsor, would do just that.Lastly, I have concerns about the process used to close the Glenoaks facility. Under Title 39, Section 404(b)(1) of the United States Code, USPS prior to making a determination as to the necessity for the closing or consolidation of any post office, is required to provide adequate notice of its intention to close or consolidate such post office at least 60 days prior to the proposed date of such closing or consolidation to persons served by such post office to ensure that such persons will have an opportunity to present their views. I’m currently unaware of any steps USPS has taken to ensure that that community members affected by the proposed closure have the opportunity to present their views. USPS should solicit input from the community on the closure through a variety of formats – postal mail, online submissions and a public forum with USPS representatives present to answer any questions about the closure.I strongly urge the United States Postal Service not to close the Glenoaks Post Office and to effectively and comprehensively solicit input from the community on this proposed action that could degrade services in our city and beyond.Sincerely,Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress###
04.28.13	04.28.13 Rep. Schiff Discusses Latest in Boston Marathon Bombing Case on CNN's State of the Union Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, appeared on CNN’s State of the Union with Candy Crowley to discuss the latest in the Boston Marathon bombing case and the timing for reading the Miranda rights with Senator Dan Coats (R-IN). Some excerpts are below:“I think [law enforcement] properly invoked the public safety exception. But the other question is, when does he have to be presented before a magistrate? In this case, it seems that the magistrate made clear the magistrate was going to arraign this person on Monday, and that put a very limit on how long the questioning could go on. Already, I think the statements that the suspect made are going to be challenged by the defense team. And while the priority has to be on making use of any information that could protect the public, it's also valuable to admit those into evidence.If for example the attorney general decides to seek the death penalty, those may be – his statements may be the best evidence of what his intent was, what his role was, how culpable he was. So we shouldn't discount the need to produce that evidence.“I think it looks like the FBI got what they needed in terms of making sure the public was safe, and that's really the basis of the public safety exception. The FBI is always going to want to interview as long as they possibly can to get into what happened overseas and the full nature of the plot. But the public safety exception only goes really to protecting the public. And once they have gotten the information they need to do that, that's really the full length and dimension of that exception.“We really don't know yet what happened during this six-month trip to Dagestan. There are a lot of unanswered questions there. There may have been radicalizing influences in the United States. There may have been radicalizing influences overseas. It does look like a lot of the radicalization was self-radicalization online, but we don't know the full answers yet, and that's why this investigation is going to be thorough, it's going to chase down every lead, and it will take as long as it takes… We shouldn't leap to the conclusion that we know the full story yet.“I don't think that we've seen any of stove piping issues that pre-dated 9/11. I think we have fixed a lot of those problems. What we may see here maybe in a way a more striking conclusion, that is that in a free and open society, even when you do everything right, you still may not be able to prevent a group of people willing to kill themselves using relatively low tech means…But, I think we might do a disservice to the American people if we suggest that there's always got to be a problem when anything bad happens. The reality is we would need to take such intrusive steps, make this country into a police state that no one would want to accept in order to completely prevent these low tech attacks.Watch the segment below, or click here: ###
04.24.13	04.24.13 Rep. Adam Schiff Gives Full Speech on House Floor in Armenian Honors Victims of the Armenian GenocideWashington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide resolution in Congress, delivered his remarks in Armenian on the House Floor to honor the more than one and a half million Armenian men, women and children who were murdered by the Ottoman government. In a historic first in the Congress, Representative Schiff said in his Armenian address, "I speak to you from the floor of the House of Representatives in the language of your grandparents and your great grandparents – the language they used to speak of their hopes, their dreams, their lives and their loves in the years before 1915 ... I speak to you in the language of sons who watched their fathers murdered ... I speak to you in the language of the girls begging the gendarmes for mercy ...”Watch Rep. Schiff’s speech here.Rep. Schiff's full speech follows:“My Armenian friends, here and around the world, today on the 98th anniversary of the [genocide day], I speak to you from the floor of the House of Representatives in the language of your grandparents and your great grandparents – the language they used to speak of their hopes, their dreams, their lives and their loves in the years before 1915.“Throughout the Ottoman Empire, tens of thousands were to be killed outright. “I speak to you in the language of the sons who watched their fathers' murdered.“Women were raped by the thousands.“I speak to you in the language of the girls begging the gendarmes for mercy.“Families were force marched through desert heat as the Ottoman government sought to destroy a people. “I speak you in the language of the children begging for a drop of water.“By the time it was over in 1923, more than 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children were dead. It was the first genocide of the 20th Century.“I speak to you in the language of the mothers who died with their babies in their arms.“A nation was scattered around the world... To the Middle East, to Europe and to America.“I speak to you in the language of the survivors who came to America for freedom and made a new life.“For almost a century, Turkey has denied the genocide. In the face of overwhelming evidence – much of it from American diplomats and journalists – Ankara has denied that the genocide ever happened. They want the world to forget.“I speak to you in the language of those who were lost. Their voices drift across the decades – begging us to remember.“I am not a descendant of the fallen, but I speak to you in their beautiful language because on this day, we are all Armenian. And not just on this day. Whenever we speak out against mass murder, whenever we refuse to be cowed into silence, we are all Armenian.“For many years I have sat with you and listened – to the stories of those who were lost in the genocide and those who survived.“I speak to you in their language to thank you for sharing your history with me. And I speak to you from this place, this House, because Americans have always shown the courage to look horror in the eye and speak its name, and I look forward to the day when its leaders will do the same.“And because I know that day will come. May it come soon, so the last of the survivors may hear its awesome sound. “May God hear our voices.“Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I yield back.” Schiff's speech in Armenian can be read here.###
04.20.13	04.20.13 Rep. Schiff: Administration Acting Properly in Boston Marathon Bombing Case, Should Resist Calls to Treat as Enemy Combatant Burbank, CA -- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor and senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after calls to treat the Boston Marathon suspect as an enemy combatant:"Law enforcement is properly relying on the public safety exception to Miranda in the aftermath of the arrest of the second suspect to interrogate him and make sure there are no other bombs, plots or risks to the American people."The Administration should resist hasty calls to treat the suspect as an enemy combatant. This is not a foreign national caught on an enemy battlefield, but an American citizen arrested on American soil. The Justice Department has demonstrated a far greater ability to successfully prosecute suspected terrorists in federal courts than the military commissions have thus far been able to show. Nothing must be done to compromise the public safety, the ability of prosecutors to seek justice for the victims or our constitutional principles."###
04.19.13	04.19.13 Rep. Schiff and Senator Feinstein Call on NASA to Not Gut Planetary Science In Letter Joined by Senator Boxer and Rep. Culberson, Ask NASA Administrator to Keep Funding Levels for Programs Consistent with Structure Directed by CongressWashington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) sent a letter to National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Administrator Charles Bolden calling on him to keep any operating plan for the fiscal year consistent with the funding levels and allocations directed to it by Congress earlier this year. There have been reports that the FY 2013 NASA Operating Plan will slash funding from the Planetary Science programs. They were joined by Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Representative John Culberson (R-TX) in sending the letter today.In the letter, the congressional leaders write: “While we fully understand that the funding levels enumerated in the bill and report are subject to change to reflect the across the board and sequester cuts, we expect that the balance among programs will remain consistent with the structure directed by Congress.”The full letter is below: The Honorable Charles BoldenAdministratorNational Aeronautics and Space AdministrationNASA HeadquartersSuite 5K39Washington, DC 20546-000 Dear Administrator Bolden:We write to express opposition to any Fiscal Year 2013 NASA Operating Plan that disproportionately applies sequester and across-the-board cuts to the Science budget. Both the House and Senate rejected the Administration’s FY 13 budget proposal to drastically reduce available funding for the Mars, Outer Planets and Discovery missions, within Planetary Science. H.R. 933 and the accompanying report language provide NASA specific instructions on how to fund a balanced Planetary Science portfolio:$192,000,000 for Planetary Science Research;$243,980,000 for Discovery;$175,000,000 for New Frontiers;$450,800,000 for Mars Exploration; and$159,000,000 for Outer Planets.The report provides further instruction for the Mars and Outer Planets programs:“Within the amount provided for Mars Exploration, $146,400,000 is for the continued development of the MAVEN mission, $65,000,000 is for operation of the Mars Science Laboratory and $239,400,000 is for other Mars activities, including the formulation of a future Mars mission that is responsive to the scientific goals of the most recent planetary science decadal survey and the potential completion of instrumentation or other contributions to international Mars exploration efforts.”“Within the amount provided for Outer Planets, $75,000,000 shall be for pre-formulation and/or formulation activities in support of a mission that achieves the scientific goals laid out in the Jupiter Europa section of the most recent planetary science decadal survey. These activities include, but are not limited to, concept studies and concept development, technology development and requirements definition.”While we fully understand that the funding levels enumerated in the bill and report are subject to change to reflect the across the board and sequester cuts, we expect that the balance among programs will remain consistent with the structure directed by Congress. We appreciate your personal attention to this matter and look forward to working with you to ensure a workable and robust Planetary Sciences program. Sincerely,
04.18.13	04.18.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Voting Against Final Passage of CISPA Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after voting against final passage of CISPA on the House Floor:“Throughout the debate on CISPA, I have sought to ensure that the privacy of Americans was protected, a goal that can easily be accomplished while still allowing for increased sharing of cyber security information. And while progress has been made, the bill still lacks any requirement that private companies remove the personal information of Americans before sharing cyber security information with the government or other companies. This concern, and others, was reflected in the sizable and bipartisan "no" vote on the CISPA today.“As the debate moves to the Senate, I hope a stronger effort will be made to take into account the privacy concerns expressed by the White House, civil liberties groups, and House members from both parties. There have been improvements to the bill, but significant problems remain before the American people can feel confident that their privacy is not being unnecessarily compromised.”Rep. Schiff spoke on the House Floor yesterday regarding his concerns about CISPA – view the video here. ###
04.17.13	04.17.13 Rep. Schiff: Senate Failure to Pass Background Checks Amendment Is An Appalling Defeat for Common Sense and Gun Safety Washington, DC – Today, after the Senate failed to pass a bipartisan agreement on background checks reached by Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Pat Toomey (R-PA) by a vote of 54-46, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor and outspoken advocate for gun safety legislation, issued the following statement:“What happened this afternoon in the Senate is an appalling defeat for common sense and gun safety. The victims of Newtown, of Aurora and other gun violence tragedies deserve a vote on a comprehensive gun safety package – including universal background checks, a ban on assault weapons and extended ammunition magazines and the expanded access to mental health treatment. More than half the Senate, along with 90 percent of the American people, support a compromise to expand background checks to unregulated gun shows and websites that sell millions of weapons, but a minority who feared a negative score from the NRA blocked the bill’s progress.“While it may have failed today, Senate leaders must not give up the fight for universal background checks and other vital gun safety measures – gun violence victims and their families deserve a better vote and result than this.”###
04.17.13	04.17.13 Rep. Adam Schiff Calls on President Obama to Recognize Armenian Genocide on Anniversary Next Week Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), the lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide resolution in Congress, called on President Barack Obama to finally recognize the Armenian Genocide on April 24th. Each year, Obama has issued a statement marking the anniversary of the start of first genocide of the 20th Century, but has consistently failed to properly refer to this campaign of killing as a “genocide.”In the letter to President Obama, Schiff states: “I urge you to acknowledge the Armenian Genocide in your statement this year, to call genocide, genocide, and to stand with the ever-dwindling number of survivors, as well as the descendants of those who were lost, and who must otherwise continue to suffer the indignity, injury and pain of denial.”The full letter sent today is below:April 17, 2013 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, DC Dear Mr. President: Next week marks the 98th anniversary of the start of the systematic murder of 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children, and I urge you to refer properly to this campaign of killing as “genocide” in your annual statement marking the April 24 anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide.In the spring of 1915, the government of the Ottoman Empire unleashed a savage campaign of massacres, forced desert marches, rape, and looting upon the Armenians of eastern Anatolia. By 1923, one and a half million Armenians were dead and the world’s oldest Christian nation had been shattered – with its survivors scattered around the world.As a Senator, you spoke often of the massacres of Armenians at the hands of the Ottoman government as genocide, a view shared by the overwhelming majority of historians, including some notable Turkish historians. The Armenian Genocide has also been recognized by many local and state governments here in the United States and by many governments around the world.I urge you to acknowledge the Armenian Genocide in your statement this year, to call genocide, genocide, and to stand with the ever-dwindling number of survivors, as well as the descendants of those who were lost, and who must otherwise continue to suffer the indignity, injury and pain of denial.Sincerely,Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress ###
04.09.13	04.09.13 Rep. Adam Schiff Opens Hollywood Satellite Office for Constituent Services Hollywood, CA –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that he has opened a new satellite office in Hollywood, after relocating his primary district office from Pasadena to Burbank. This office will better allow Schiff and his district staff to meet with constituents in the southern and western portion of his district to discuss pending legislation and assist with federal casework issues such as Medicare, Social Security, the Veterans Administration and Immigration.“In order to better serve constituents located in the southern and western part of the 28th Congressional District, we opened a satellite office in Hollywood,” said Schiff. “My staff have always provided the best service to constituents possible, and this move makes it easy for constituents to come in for help with federal agencies, for meetings with caseworkers, and to share their thoughts and concerns with me.”Schiff’s Hollywood satellite office will be open every Tuesday from 2 p.m. until 5 p.m., and by appointment. The new office is located at 5500 Hollywood Blvd, Suite #416 in Hollywood (at the corner of Hollywood Blvd., and Western Ave., across from the Western Ave. Red Line Station). Congressman Schiff’s district office can be reached by calling (818) 450-2900 or (323) 315-5555, or by fax at (818) 450-2928.As mandated by the Constitution, California underwent a decennial redistricting period last year based on the 2010 Census, and as a result, the federal district boundaries have shifted and representation for local areas has changed. California chose to draw its new congressional district lines through a Citizens Commission, and Schiff was sworn in earlier to serve as the Representative for California's 28th Congressional District including all or parts of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood.
04.04.13	04.04.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Continued North Korean Provocations Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement on the continuing provocations by the North Korean government:"North Korea's escalating series of dangerously provocative statements and actions must come to an end. The international community has long witnessed North Korean leaders undertake to provoke its neighbors and the world in the hope of exacting food, fuel or other concessions at the bargaining table, or merely to consolidate power within the insular regime. But the actions of Kim Jung Un have reached new heights of irresponsibility and present a grave risk of miscalculation."From declaring an end to the armistice, a state of war with its neighbor, the resumption of one of its nuclear weapons programs, a willingness to attack the United States with conventional or nuclear weapons, and the repositioning of its missiles, the North's young, untested leader has put the region into a dangerous spiral of action and reaction. Kim must not make the mistake of assuming that South Korea, with its new President, will withstand another artillery barrage or the sinking of one of its ships, as it did years ago, without a strong reprisal. The United States has taken prudent action to protect itself and its troops on the peninsula, to assure its allies' defense, and to let Kim know it takes the North's belligerent actions seriously. But the only country that the North may heed is China, whose economic support keeps the rogue nation from suffering a total collapse."The North Korean dictatorship cares little about the suffering and starvation of its own people, or its increasing isolation from the rest of the world. But it does fear a collapse that would endanger its own rule, and this is where China may have the leverage necessary to end the standoff. China has rightfully condemned the provocations coming from its backward neighbor, but it must do more. China has looked for opportunities to play a greater role on the world stage commensurate with its growing power and influence in Asia – this is that moment. We must urge China to use all diplomatic and economic tools at its disposal to get North Korea to stand down from its dangerous escalation of tensions." ###
03.28.13	03.28.13 Rep. Adam Schiff to Host Town Hall on Gun Violence in West Hollywood West Hollywood, CA – On Wednesday, April 3rd at 6:30 pm, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) will convene and moderate a town hall to discuss the causes of gun violence such as the horrendous shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT. The discussion will include federal legislation that has been proposed to put in place universal background checks for all gun sales, improve mental health treatment and the quality of records in the background check system, and other proposals being debated by Congress. Congressman Schiff will be joined by Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca, former State Senator Jack Scott, Dr. Anand Pandya, Loren Lieb, and an invited representative from the NRA.“Since Newtown, Congress has been debating steps that we can take to prevent future gun violence and tragedies from occurring,” said Rep. Schiff. “It’s my hope that we can take steps to crack down on straw purchasers, ban assault weapons with extended ammunition clips, repeal the gun industry's immunity from liability, and make background checks universal, among other steps. This town hall will serve as an opportunity for members of the public to weigh in, and hear directly from experts and those that have experience with gun violence and mental health. Together, we can explore steps to prevent horrendous tragedies like Newtown.” WHO: Congressman Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca Former State Senator Jack Scott Dr. Anand Pandya; Associate Professor of clinical psychiatry at USC Keck School of Medicine Loren Lieb; Los Angeles resident and mother of a child injured in the Los Angeles Jewish Community Center mass shooting in 1999 Representative from the NRA (invited)WHAT: Congressman Schiff will convene and moderate a town hall to discuss the causes and solutions of gun violence such as the horrendous shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown.WHERE: West Hollywood City Council Chambers 625 N. San Vicente Blvd. West Hollywood, CA 90069WHEN: Wednesday, April 3rd; 6:30 – 8:30 pm;
03.14.13	03.14.13 Momentum Builds for Rep. Schiff's Bill to Reduce Helicopter Traffic and Noise over Los Angeles Neighborhoods Washington, DC –Momentum continues to build for legislation that Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) introduced last month to regulate helicopter traffic and noise in Los Angeles County. Several affected cities and local organizations have joined in support of the bill. The Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act (H.R. 456) would require the Federal Aviation Administration(FAA) to provide Los Angeles County residents relief from the noise caused by low-flying helicopters above residential neighborhoods.Since its introduction, several local municipalities including the City of Los Angeles, the City of West Hollywood, the City of Beverly Hills and the City of Lomita have expressed their support for the bill. In a letter to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure endorsing the bill, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors stated that, “Such regulations would address the enormously disruptive noise caused by low-flying helicopters on non-emergency flights, such as tours and paparazzi photo shoots.”Last week, the City of West Hollywood voted unanimously to adopt a resolution in support of the bill, less than a week after Mayor Jeffrey Prang proposed a resolution supporting the helicopter noise bill. Mayor Prang praised the initiative at a recent Council meeting and was pleased that the “challenge we have with helicopters strafing our neighborhoods and causing havoc” was one of the first conversations he had with Rep. Schiff when he began representing West Hollywood earlier this year due to redistricting.Schiff said that he was encouraged by the strong support from local organizations supporting the legislation: “Residents across the Los Angeles area – from Pasadena to the Coast, and the Valley to the Hollywood Hills – are affected by intrusive, disruptive and often non-emergency related helicopter traffic about their neighborhoods and homes. Angelinos deserve peace and quiet, and if the FAA won’t act to regulate disruptive and preventable helicopter traffic noise, Congress must pass this legislation to give residents the relief they deserve.”In a letter to Schiff, Beverly Hills Mayor William Brien expressed his support and agreed that, “By reducing, if not eliminating the noise of low-flying helicopters over Beverly Hills and surrounding communities, your legislative measure will significantly improve the quality of life and safety for all our residents.”Additionally, the Van Nuys Airport Citizens Advisory Council also voted 13-0 to support the legislation. “This is putting pressure on the FAA,” said Wayne Williams, a member of the council.Rep. Schiff was joined in introducing this legislation with Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, as well as Reps. Henry Waxman, Brad Sherman and Janice Hahn. The Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Actwould require the FAA toestablish regulations on flight paths and minimum altitudes for helicopter operations in Los Angeles County. Schiff hopes that the legislation will prompt the FAA to act, and if passed, will require the agency to finally address numerous resident complaints that have been building over the years.
02.26.13	02.26.13 Rep. Schiff Urges Agreement on a Bipartisan, Balanced Plan to Avert Sequestration Cuts Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) called on the Speaker to help avert the dangerous across-the-board cuts that would result from sequestration, scheduled to kick in on March 1st. On Sunday night, the White House released a report laying out the direct cuts that would affect Californians. Schiff believes that Congress must take swift action on a balanced plan to stop these automatic spending cuts that would threaten our economy as well as a range of vital services for children, seniors, small businesses, and our men and women in uniform.“We must do everything we can to reach a long-term deal to avert the sequester, to grow jobs and the economy, and to address our debt problems,” said Rep. Schiff. “If sequestration goes into effect later this week, it’s going to be a disaster for the country, resulting in the loss of many thousands of jobs in Los Angeles and around the nation. We need to find a permanent fix to these fiscal issues, and it just shouldn't be that hard if both parties would come to the table open to a balanced agreement that has a combination of responsible spending cuts, increased revenues, and job growth.“Our economy is poised to finally recover if the Congress would get out of the way. I urge the Speaker to permit a balanced plan to come to the floor. Finding common ground to avert the sequester is not rocket science, and it needs to get done.”California would face a series of cuts to education, environmental protections, military readiness, public safety, public health and programs benefitting seniors. Education Funding: California will lose approximately $87.6 million in funding for primary and secondary education, putting around 1,210 teacher and aide jobs at risk, and 187,000 fewer students would be served and approximately 320 fewer schools would receive funding. Additionally, Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 8,200 children in California, reducing access to critical early education.Protections for Clean Air and Clean Water: California would lose about $12.4 million in environmental funding to ensure clean water and air quality, as well as prevent pollution from pesticides and hazardous waste. Military Readiness: In California, approximately 64,000 civilian Department of Defense employees would be furloughed, reducing gross pay by around $399.4 million in total.Public Health: California will lose approximately $2.6 million in funds to help upgrade its ability to respond to public health threats including infectious diseases, natural disasters, and biological, chemical, nuclear, and radiological events. In addition, California will lose about $12.4 million in grants to help prevent and treat substance abuse, resulting in around 9,400 fewer admissions to substance abuse programs. And the California State Department of Health Services will lose about $2 million resulting in around 49,300 fewer HIV tests.Nutrition Assistance for Seniors: California would lose approximately $5.4 million in funds that provide meals for needy seniors across the state.Additionally, vital programs nationwide will see massive cuts that will also directly impact Californians:Public Safety: Under sequestration, U.S. Customs and Border Protection would also have to lay off more than 7,000 officers and agents, increasing wait times at our nation's busiest airports. The Department of Justice would also be forced lay off approximately 1,000 federal agents and 1,300 Bureau of Prisons correctional officers.Health Care: More than $1.6 billion would be cut from medical research grants through the National Institutes for Health, meaning fewer and smaller research projects aimed at finding treatments and cures for diseases like cancer, diabetes and Alzheimer's. Community health centers would serve 900,000 fewer patients as a result of cuts of $120 million, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention would provide 540,000 fewer doses of vaccines against diseases like hepatitis, flu, measles, and whooping cough for children and adults.###
02.25.13	02.25.13 Rep. Schiff Congratulates Nagorno Karabakh on 25th Anniversary of National Liberation Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to the President of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic, Artsakh H.E. Bako Sahakian congratulating the people of Artsakh on the 25th anniversary of the National-Liberation Movement. In the letter, Rep. Schiff praises the Karabakh people’s courage as they pursue freedom and self-determination in the face of unremitting threats by Azerbaijan.The full letter from Schiff is below:February 25, 2013H.E. Bako SahakianPresident of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic, Artsakh20th February Street, 3Stepanakert, NKR Dear Mr. President:I am writing to congratulate you, the people and government of the Nagorno Karabakh Republic on the 25th anniversary of the national liberation movement. A quarter century ago the people of Artsakh raised their voices for freedom and dignity and against Soviet communism and ethnic intolerance.Artsakh’s path forward has not been easy and it is a tribute to you and your people that the trials of the past did not break your will and determination. The tragedy of Sumgait and other Azerbaijani cities 25 years ago, proved the righteousness of Nagorno Karabakh’s choice to survive and preserve its identity by establishing a sovereign democracy.You have my support as you work to strengthen your democracy, and I will continue to stand with the people of Artsakh in their struggle towards international recognition. I join you today in looking forward to the day when Artsakh will achieve the recognition it deserves among the community of nations.Sincerely,Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress###
02.14.13	02.14.13 Rep. Schiff Reintroduces Constitutional Amendment Permitting Regulation of Campaign Spending Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) today reintroduced a constitutional amendment to overturn the Supreme Court's ill-considered opinion in Citizens United, and other Supreme Court precedent, which have made it impossible to regulate the billions in campaign spending unleashed over the last two decades. The amendment also overturns the Supreme Court decision Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, which struck down an Arizona law that allowed public financing of a candidate if their opponent exceeded certain spending limits.“With the growth of Super PACs this past cycle, it’s clear that now more than ever we need real campaign finance reform,” said Rep. Schiff. “As a result of the Supreme Court's artificial distinction between contributions to a candidate and direct expenditures that have the same effect, Super PACs and anonymous donors are the norm rather than the exception. My amendment is simple – it would allow Congress to set reasonable limits, and allow states to set up public financing for candidates, if they choose to do so. “I have always been loathe to amend the constitution, but the tragic line of decisions by the Supreme Court has severely threatened the very health of our democracy. Something must be done, and we must overturn Citizens United.”Schiff drafted the legislation last year with Harvard Law Professor Laurence H. Tribe, and pushed to hold hearings on his amendment and others. He was joined today by Michael Capuano, David Cicilline, Sam Farr, John Garamendi, Jim Himes, Barbara Lee, Betty McCollum, Michael Michaud, Jerry Moran, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Charles Rangel, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Chris Van Hollen, and Peter Welch.The amendment provides simply: “Nothing in this Constitution shall be construed to forbid Congress or the States from imposing reasonable content-neutral limitations on private campaign contributions or independent election expenditures, or from enacting systems of public campaign financing, including those designed to restrict the influence of private wealth by offsetting campaign spending or independent expenditures with increased public funding.”Schiff is no stranger to campaign finance reform. Elected in 2000, after the most expensive race for the House in history at the time, he became a cosponsor of the bipartisan McCain-Feingold bipartisan campaign finance reform law on his first day in Congress.Citizens United helped overturn critical parts of that and other campaign finance laws.Laurence H. Tribe is the Carl M. Loeb University Professor and Professor of Constitutional Law at Harvard Law School. Rep. Schiff served as one of his research assistants while a student at the law school in the mid-1980s.###
02.11.13	02.11.13 Rep. Schiff Applauds Action by Secretary Panetta to Extend Important Benefits to Same-Sex Spouses Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) applauded Department of Defense (DOD) Secretary Leon Panetta’s decision to extend certain benefits to same-sex spouses. For a full list of benefits being extended, please click here.“We need to make sure that all military families – including those with same-sex partners serving at home and overseas – are treated equally, and this is an important step,”said Rep. Schiff. “Secretary Panetta today added to his already-impressive legacy by taking administrative action to make sure that all military families have access to the very best care, facilities and services possible. Now it’s time for Congress to finish the job by repealing DOMA and passing legislation that will extend full benefits for LGBT service members.”Schiff led an effort, ultimately joined by almost 40 other House colleagues, to urge Department of Defense (DOD) Secretary Leon Panetta to extend equal treatment to same sex spouses of U.S. service members who are denied a wide range of services and benefits – from health insurance to pre-deployment counseling, to access to base commissaries. In a letter to Panetta, Schiff and other Members urged the Secretary to allow same-sex spouses to be granted military identification cards, access to Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) programs, and to allow access to family programs like deployment support, marriage and family counseling, relocation assistance and financial management. Many of those benefits were extended today with the Secretary’s announcement.In the letter, Schiff and other Members wrote that the “Department of Defense current policy is treating same sex service members, their spouses and families as second class citizens. As President Obama stated during his inaugural speech, ‘Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal, as well.’ We strongly urge you take immediate action to rectify the inequality of benefits available to families of gay or lesbian service members.”Below is a copy of the letter that Schiff and other Members sent: The Honorable Leon PanettaSecretary of DefenseDepartment of Defense1000 Defense - The PentagonWashington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Panetta,As you prepare to leave the Department of Defense, please accept our gratitude for your years of service to the Nation, including your many years as a member of the House of Representatives.During your tenure, the American military has taken the historic step of stopping discrimination against gay and lesbian service members by ending the policy of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell (DADT), which allowed gays, lesbians and bisexuals to serve in the military, provided they did not reveal their sexual orientation. This change has not only made our military a truer reflection of the country it protects, but it has also occurred without any of the disruption that critics had predicted. Much of that is due to your leadership and the senior leadership of the Armed Services.However, as a recent article in the New York Times illustrates, the end of DADT has not meant the end of unequal treatment of same sex spouses of U.S. service members, who are denied a wide range of services and benefits – from health insurance to pre-deployment counseling, to access to base commissaries. As long as they remain in place, these restrictions have the effect of perpetuating discrimination against same sex spouses and their families.We understand that most of the benefits available to veterans, service members and their families are granted directly by Congress. Well over a hundred of these statutory benefits are contingent on marital status. These benefits will remain unavailable to legally married same sex couples unless the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) is repealed or declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court this year or individual statutes are modified by Congress. In the meantime, there are several executive actions that you can take to ease the burden and increase the inclusiveness of all of our service members and their families.We strongly urge you to issue same sex spouses military identification cards and registration in the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS). This is the easiest and simplest step to include same sex partners as part of the Department of Defense family.We urge you to allow same sex partners access to Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) programs. Current regulations leave open to Installation Commanders the possibility of opening up limited access to certain MWR programs to guests and the general public. These exceptions would be applied regardless of sexual orientation or individual situations; in other words, a same sex spouse could receive guest privileges, just as the girlfriend or boyfriend of a straight service member receives at present, and would likely be treated as any non-dependent member of the public.We also urge you to allow same sex partners access to family programs. The Department uses a flexible definition of “family” for the purpose of implementing Family Centers and programming, but leaves it up to the individual Service Secretaries to determine eligibility. Thus, each branch of the service (and each installation commander) determines the extent to which same sex spouses and partners have access to these programs, which include deployment support, marriage and family counseling, relocation assistance and financial management.Department of Defense current policy is treating service members, their same sex spouses and families as second class citizens. As President Obama stated during his inaugural speech, “Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal, as well.”We strongly urge you take immediate action to rectify the inequality of benefits available to families of gay or lesbian service members. Sincerely,Adam SchiffCo-signers: Adam Smith, Gwen Moore, Barbara Lee, Jerrold Nadler, Jim Moran, Rick Larsen, Carolyn Maloney, Steve Israel, Louis Capps, Julia Brownley, Sam Farr, Mike Honda, Raul Grijalva, Judy Chu, Chellie Pingree, Michael E. Capuano, Beto O'Rourke, Carol Shea-Porter, Jared Polis, Jared Huffman, Jackie Speier, Alan Lowenthal, Gerry Connolly, Tim Bishop, Tulsi Gabbard, Dina Titus, Mark Takano, Bobby Rush, Jan Schakowsky, James P. McGovern, David Cicilline, Alan Grayson, Niki Tsongas, Sean Patrick Maloney, Denny Heck, Mark Pocan###
02.06.13	02.06.13 Rep. Schiff and Los Angeles Area Members Make Recommendations on Rim of the Valley Washington, DC –Today, the Los Angeles Congressional delegation led by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), sent a letter to the National Park Service (NPS) urging the agency, as part of their process of soliciting feedback on the Rim of the Valley Study, to both expand the boundary of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA), and focus on making the Rim of the Valley accessible to the public and helping its ecosystem long-term. After legislation sponsored by Schiff and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in 2007 authorizing the Interior Department to examine the suitability of increasing the size of the Recreation Area by encompassing part or all of this corridor and preserve it within our National Park system was signed into law, this study is the next step towards the process of preserving the Rim of the Valley for future generations. The Members signing the letter besides Rep. Schiff were Brad Sherman, Judy Chu, Henry Waxman, Tony Cárdenas, Karen Bass, Grace Napolitano, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Mark Takano, and Alan Lowenthal.“In the 1970's when the Santa Monica Mountains Recreation was created, Congress had the foresight to see that LA's population would grow and thrive, and it was necessary to act to preserve the open space and natural wonders around us,” said Rep. Schiff. "The only question is whether our generation will show the same concern for future generations. Experiencing the mountains and wilderness in our backyard is something that every family should have the opportunity to do, not just now, but in the future as well. By incorporating the Rim of the Valley as part of the National Recreation Area, we will preserve this opportunity and resource for decades to come.”In the letter to the NPS, the Members write: “Alternatives C and D both expand the boundary of SMMNRA and would provide SMMNRA the authority to manage the new area in the same manner as the existing NRA, in partnership with existing land management agencies and organizations. But because the two alternatives have different focuses -- C on expanding recreational opportunities for urban audiences and D on promoting the long term resiliency of the natural resources within the area -- choosing only one of these alternatives would leave thousands of acres of nationally significant resources without adequate protection. The National Park Service should create a hybrid alternative that would include the boundary extensions of SMMNRA of both alternatives C and D. This hybrid alternative would provide comprehensive preservation of the region’s mountain ranges and trail systems and maintain habitat connectivity, while also ensuring that the objectives of the two alternatives are realized.”The full letter, sent today by the ten members, is below:Anne DoveNational Park Service570 W. Avenue 26, #175Los Angeles, CA 90065Dear Ms. Dove,We write to provide our view of the National Park Service’s ongoing Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resources Study. We are pleased that the Study’s recently released Preliminary Findings and Alternative Concepts document found the study area to be a suitable addition to the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (SMMNRA) and we have a series of recommendations to improve the alternatives in the document.We share the Study’s assessment that the study area contains nationally significant resources and would be a feasible addition to SMMNRA. The study area offers outstanding examples of geologic history, including the Transverse Ranges Province, and high levels of biodiversity, such as the rare San Fernando Valley spineflower at Laskey Mesa in the Simi Hills. The study area includes a superb example of the rare Mediterranean chaparral ecosystem. It also has enormous importance as a hiking, educational and recreational resource. These attributes and others should be protected for future generations to enjoy. Using the collaborative partnership-based park model, employed successfully by SMMNRA, will allow the boundary of SMMNRA to be expanded to include part or all of the study area and will ensure that NPS and its partners can protect natural and cultural resources in that area and provide recreational opportunities to the surrounding populations.While it is clear that the study area is a suitable and feasible addition to the SMMNRA, the alternatives put forward in the document offer different approaches to achieving this worthwhile and critical goal. And we believe that the best approach would be to draw from the strengths of the different alternatives.Alternatives C and D both expand the boundary of SMMNRA and would provide SMMNRA the authority to manage the new area in the same manner as the existing NRA, in partnership with existing land management agencies and organizations. But because the two alternatives have different focuses -- C on expanding recreational opportunities for urban audiences and D on promoting the long term resiliency of the natural resources within the area -- choosing only one of these alternatives would leave thousands of acres of nationally significant resources without adequate protection. The National Park Service should create a hybrid alternative that would include the boundary extensions of SMMNRA of both alternatives C and D. This hybrid alternative would provide comprehensive preservation of the region’s mountain ranges and trail systems and maintain habitat connectivity, while also ensuring that the objectives of the two alternatives are realized.Alternative D also wisely recognizes the value in facilitating habitat connectivity between the Los Padres National Forest and Rim of the Valley Corridor by authorizing NPS to engage in cooperative conservation partnerships with public and private actors to the north of the study area. This Cooperative Conservation Partnership Area should remain in the hybrid alternative. A Cooperative Conservation Partnership Area should also be added to the hybrid alternative to connect the two portions of the Angeles National Forest in the Santa Clara River watershed. This inter-mountain range habitat linkage in the Angeles National Forest would ensure the preservation of this critical habitat.Although Alternative B would not expand the SMMNRA boundary and would not provide NPS the authority to acquire or manage lands outside of the current SMMNRA boundary, it does include one worthwhile proposal that should be included in the hybrid alternative. The Alternative recommends that SMMNRA provide continuing technical assistance to a partnership of public and private landowners, organizations and institutions in the region. This technical assistance could take many helpful forms -- NPS staff participating in and lending guidance to national resource surveys, education activities focused on connecting people to the resources and stories of the study area and working on Rim of the Valley Trail planning. This idea should be incorporated into the hybrid alternative so that local residents can better interact with and obtain a stronger understanding of the beauty and history of the area.Additionally, both the Rim of the Valley Study and the San Gabriel Mountains and Watershed Special Resources Study include the western part of the Angeles National Forest. We request that that Rim of the Valley Study incorporate the findings from the San Gabriel Study, which is further along in the study process, into their analysis of this area. We further ask that that the San Gabriel Mountains in the western Angeles National Forest north of the Rim of the Valley trail are included in any future San Gabriel Mountains National Recreation Area, not in an expansion of the SMMNRA.Lastly, we believe that the hybrid alternative requires direct NPS management. Only NPS has the resources and expertise needed to protect the significant natural resources in the study area, ensure habitat connectivity between adjacent tracks of federally protected land, support trail and recreation efforts, and provide critical technical assistance to enhance residents’ experience with and connection to the study area. As this process moves forward, we strongly urge NPS to give full consideration to a hybrid alternative that includes the strengths of Alternatives B, C and D.Sincerely,Signers:Adam Schiff, Brad Sherman, Judy Chu, Henry Waxman, Tony Cárdenas, Karen Bass, Grace Napolitano, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Mark Takano, Alan Lowenthal ###
02.05.13	02.05.13 Rep. Schiff Applauds Report That Pentagon Will Extend Benefits to Same-Sex Spouses Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) applauded the report in the Washington Post that the Pentagon is expected to extend certain benefits to same-sex spouses. Schiff led an effort, joined by 37 other House colleagues, to urge Department of Defense (DOD) Secretary Leon Panetta to extend equal treatment to same sex spouses of U.S. service members who are denied a wide range of services and benefits – from health insurance to pre-deployment counseling, to access to base commissaries. In a letter to Panetta, Schiff and other Members urged the Secretary to allow same-sex spouses to be granted military identification cards, access to Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) programs, and to allow access to family programs like deployment support, marriage and family counseling, relocation assistance and financial management. “I'm encouraged to hear that the Department of Defense will be taking action to end discrimination against same sex partners and their families," said Rep. Schiff. “We need to make sure that all military families – including those with same sex partners serving at home or abroad – have access to the very best care, facilities and services possible. In his last days before leaving office, Secretary Panetta can add to his already long list of accomplishments, take up this cause and make sure that the administration acts.”In the letter, Schiff and other Members wrote that the “Department of Defense current policy is treating same sex service members, their spouses and families as second class citizens. As President Obama stated during his inaugural speech, ‘Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal, as well.’ We strongly urge you take immediate action to rectify the inequality of benefits available to families of gay or lesbian service members.”Below is a copy of the letter that Schiff and other Members sent: The Honorable Leon PanettaSecretary of DefenseDepartment of Defense1000 Defense - The PentagonWashington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Panetta,As you prepare to leave the Department of Defense, please accept our gratitude for your years of service to the Nation, including your many years as a member of the House of Representatives.During your tenure, the American military has taken the historic step of stopping discrimination against gay and lesbian service members by ending the policy of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell (DADT), which allowed gays, lesbians and bisexuals to serve in the military, provided they did not reveal their sexual orientation. This change has not only made our military a truer reflection of the country it protects, but it has also occurred without any of the disruption that critics had predicted. Much of that is due to your leadership and the senior leadership of the Armed Services.However, as a recent article in the New York Times illustrates, the end of DADT has not meant the end of unequal treatment of same sex spouses of U.S. service members, who are denied a wide range of services and benefits – from health insurance to pre-deployment counseling, to access to base commissaries. As long as they remain in place, these restrictions have the effect of perpetuating discrimination against same sex spouses and their families.We understand that most of the benefits available to veterans, service members and their families are granted directly by Congress. Well over a hundred of these statutory benefits are contingent on marital status. These benefits will remain unavailable to legally married same sex couples unless the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) is repealed or declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court this year or individual statutes are modified by Congress. In the meantime, there are several executive actions that you can take to ease the burden and increase the inclusiveness of all of our service members and their families.We strongly urge you to issue same sex spouses military identification cards and registration in the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS). This is the easiest and simplest step to include same sex partners as part of the Department of Defense family.We urge you to allow same sex partners access to Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) programs. Current regulations leave open to Installation Commanders the possibility of opening up limited access to certain MWR programs to guests and the general public. These exceptions would be applied regardless of sexual orientation or individual situations; in other words, a same sex spouse could receive guest privileges, just as the girlfriend or boyfriend of a straight service member receives at present, and would likely be treated as any non-dependent member of the public.We also urge you to allow same sex partners access to family programs. The Department uses a flexible definition of “family” for the purpose of implementing Family Centers and programming, but leaves it up to the individual Service Secretaries to determine eligibility. Thus, each branch of the service (and each installation commander) determines the extent to which same sex spouses and partners have access to these programs, which include deployment support, marriage and family counseling, relocation assistance and financial management.Department of Defense current policy is treating service members, their same sex spouses and families as second class citizens. As President Obama stated during his inaugural speech, “Our journey is not complete until our gay brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law, for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we commit to one another must be equal, as well.”We strongly urge you take immediate action to rectify the inequality of benefits available to families of gay or lesbian service members.Sincerely,Adam SchiffCo-signers: Gwen Moore, Barbara Lee, Jerrold Nadler, Jim Moran, Rick Larsen, Carolyn Maloney, Steve Israel, Louis Capps, Julia Brownley, Sam Farr, Mike Honda, Raul Grijalva, Judy Chu, Chellie Pingree, Michael E. Capuano, Beto O'Rourke, Carol Shea-Porter, Jared Polis, Huffman, Jared, Jackie Speier, Alan Lowenthal, Gerry Connolly, Tim Bishop, Tulsi Gabbard, Dina Titus, Mark Takano, Bobby Rush, Jan Schakowski, James P. McGovern, David Cicilline, Alan Grayson, Niki Tsongas, Sean Patrick Maloney, Denny Heck, Mark Pocan, Adam Smith###
02.04.13	02.04.13 Schiff, Feinstein, Boxer Introduce Bill to Regulate Helicopter Traffic over L.A. Neighborhoods Washington, DC –Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.) introduced legislation today that would require the Federal Aviation Administration to provide Los Angeles County residents relief from the noise and safety concerns caused by low-flying helicopters above residential neighborhoods. The Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act would establish regulations on flight paths and minimum altitudes for helicopter operations in Los Angeles County. Feinstein and Schiff hope that the legislation will prompt the FAA to act, and if passed, will require the agency to finally address numerous resident complaints. They were joined by other Los Angeles congressional colleagues, including Congressmen Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) and Brad Sherman (D-Calif.).“Los Angeles area residents living in Glendale, Pasadena, the Valley, the Hollywood Hills, West Hollywood and other areas are especially affected by intrusive, disruptive and often non-emergency related helicopter traffic above their neighborhoods,” said Congressman Schiff. “The terrain of canyons around the Rose Bowl concentrates low-flying helicopter noise to high levels, and Hollywood Hills and West Hollywood residents frequently suffer from noise generated by celebrity news media that follow stars to the beach, the grocery store, or for court appearances. The residents in these areas deserve peace and quiet, and if the FAA won’t act, Congress must pass this legislation to give residents the relief they need.”“LA County residents suffer from high levels of disruptive, low-flying helicopter traffic over their neighborhoods. This bill would address that problem by requiring the FAA to create regulations for how helicopters operate in the skies above Los Angeles,” said Senator Feinstein. “In addition to reducing noise, this bill would increase safety and minimize commercial aircraft delays while exempting first responders and military aircraft from its limitations. I look forward to working with Congressman Schiff and Senator Boxer to get this bill passed.“This legislation will ensure that the FAA sets responsible guidelines that allow helicopters to continue to operate above Los Angeles while protecting residents from excessive noise associated with low-altitude flights,” said Senator Boxer.“I hear complaints about helicopter noise from every part of the 33rd District—from Malibu to Brentwood to Benedict Canyon,” said Congressman Waxman. “FAA regulation of the thunderous helicopter traffic over LA is long overdue. And if the FAA won’t act, Congress must.” “I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this legislation to urge the FAA to implement enforceable measures that provide meaningful more relief for Valley communities impacted by helicopter noise and to protect the safety of aircraft in the crowded skies above our metropolitan area,” said Congressman Sherman. “The active participation of the FAA, community leaders and the helicopter industry can also help lead to substantial progress in developing solutions to better balance public safety and relief from excessive helicopter noise.”Last year, Schiff and Feinstein wrote to Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood urging him to form a working group at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to solicit input from local communities and stakeholders on helicopter noise and safety issues across Los Angeles County. For the past year, that working group has been meeting with local residents, stakeholders and officials to discuss ways to move forward and adequately address the concerns and complaints of affected residents.Under the legislation sponsored by Schiff, Feinstein and Boxer, the FAA would be required to exercise its legal authority to set guidelines on flight paths and minimum altitudes for helicopter operators in residential areas in Los Angeles County within 12 months of being signed into law. Exemptions would be provided for law enforcement, emergency responders and the U.S. military.“I’m heartened that Congressman Schiff and Senator Feinstein will be taking up the mantle of helicopter noise regulation next year. They have been steadfast partners with me on the LA Helicopter Noise Relief Act,” said former Congressman Howard Berman. “Los Angeles County residents should know that they will have an important voice in Washington who will continue to fight for common sense reforms to protect their safety and quality of life from intrusive helicopter flights.” ###
02.01.13	02.01.13 Rep. Schiff Congratulates La Cañada Winners of National Medal of Technology and Innovation and National Medal of Science Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) congratulated Dr. Frances Arnold of La Cañada, a professor at the California Institute of Technology, was chosen as one of eleven recipients of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation, and Dr. Solomon Golomb of La Cañada, a mathematician and professor of electrical engineering at the University of Southern California, was chosen as one of twelve recipients of the National Medal of Science. Both were honored at a White House ceremony by President Barack Obama early this afternoon.“Dr. Frances Arnold has worked her entire life to use biology to solve some of the world's most pressing challenges,” said Rep. Schiff. “She’s known as a prodigious worker – conducting thousands upon thousands of experiments during her time at Caltech. Dr. Arnold possesses a keen and curious mind, and has served as a role model for countless women looking to break into a field once dominated by men. Dr. Arnold’s work on ‘green fuel’ is particularly important and one of the reasons that President Obama rightly selected her as one of the top scientists across the country.“For almost his entire career, Dr. Solomon Golomb has shaped the way we communicate with each other, including work on cell phones and communicating in deep space. During his time with JPL, Dr. Golomb developed technology critical to the lunar and planetary missions. He’s even the godfather of Tetris, creating polyominoes which served as the game’s inspiration.”To read the President's remarks at the ceremony, please click here.###
02.01.13	02.01.13 Rep. Schiff Solicits Nominations for Annual Woman of the Year Award Burbank, CA –Every March, in recognition of Women’s History Month, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honors outstanding women from his district. The 28th Congressional District includes the cities and communities of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood.“Recipients of the ‘Woman of the Year Award’ come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region,” Rep. Schiff said. “I urge constituents to contact my office and let us know about some of the admirable women in our communities by nominating them for this year’s award.”Constituents are encouraged to nominate women in their community — while there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life in our community. Nominations can be sent to Mary Hovagimian (mary.hovagimian@mail.house.gov). Nominations should include a written description of your nominee’s accomplishments, the home address, phone number and e-mail of the nominee, and the nominator's name and contact information.The deadline for nominations is February 22, 2013.###
01.30.13	01.30.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on Release of World Press Freedom Index Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), chair of the Press Freedom Caucus, released the following statement after Reporters Without Borders released their 2013 World Press Freedom Index:“Each year, Reporters Without Borders releases their annual World Press Freedom Index – often serving as a call to action and a reminder that so much work remains to be done to protect journalists, citizen reporters and digital media across the globe. 2012 was an especially deadly year for journalists with almost 90 traditional journalists and 50 citizen reporters and digital media killed. Sadly, 2013 looks to be just as deadly with 13 journalists who have already lost their lives while reporting in the field. “Although we have seen some improvements in countries that previously ranked as some of the worst in the world, we’ve also seen political instability in the Middle East bring about a decline in press freedom. It should not surprise anyone that Syria, Iran, and China led this year’s list as the worst offenders. Congress must work with the global community to continue raising the cause of press freedom and to keep up the pressure on repressive regimes that threaten a free media.” Background on report from Reporters Without Borders:The Nordic countries have again demonstrated their ability to maintain an optimal environment for news providers. Finland (1st, 0), Netherlands (2nd, +1) and Norway (3rd, -2) have held on to the first three places. Canada (20th, -10) only just avoided dropping out of the top 20. Andorra (5th) and Liechtenstein (7th) have entered the index for the first time just behind the three leaders. At the other end of the index, the same three countries as ever – Turkmenistan, North Korea and Eritrea – occupy the last three places in the index. Kim Jong-un’s arrival at the head of the Hermit Kingdom has not in any way changed the regime’s absolute control of news and information. Eritrea (179th, 0), which was recently shaken by a brief mutiny by soldiers at the information ministry, continues to be a vast open prison for its people and lets journalists die in detention. Despite its reformist discourse, the Turkmen regime has not yielded an inch of its totalitarian control of the media. For the second year running, the bottom three countries are immediately preceded by Syria (176th, 0), where a deadly information war is being waged, and Somalia (175th, -11), which has had a deadly year for journalists. Iran (174th, +1), China (173rd, +1), Vietnam (unchanged at 172nd), Cuba (171st, -4), Sudan (170th, 0) and Yemen (169th, +2) complete the list of the ten countries that respect media freedom least. Not content with imprisoning journalists and netizens, Iran also harasses the relatives of journalists, including the relatives of those who are abroad.Big rises...Malawi (75th, +71) registered the biggest leap in the index, almost returning to the position it held before the excesses at the end of the Mutharika administration. Côte d’Ivoire (96th, +63), which is emerging from the post-electoral crisis between the supporters of Laurent Gbagbo and Alassane Ouattara, has also soared, attaining its best position since 2003. Burma (151st, +18) continued the ascent begun in last year’s index. Previously, it had been in the bottom 15 every year since 2002 but now, thanks to the Burmese spring’s unprecedented reforms, it has reached its best-ever position. Afghanistan (128th, +22) also registered a significant rise thanks to the fact that no journalists are in prison. It is nonetheless facing many challenges, especially with the withdrawal of foreign troops....and big fallsMali (99th, -74) registered the biggest fall in the index as a result of all the turmoil in 2012. The military coup in Bamako on 22 March and the north’s takeover by armed Islamists and Tuareg separatists exposed the media in the north to censorship and violence. Tanzania (70th, -36) sank more than 30 places because, in the space of four months, a journalist was killed while covering a demonstration and another was murdered. Buffeted by social and economic protests, the Sultanate of Oman (141st) sank 24 places, the biggest fall in the Middle East and North Africa in 2012. Some 50 netizens and bloggers were prosecuted on lèse majesté or cyber-crime charges in 2012. No fewer than 28 were convicted in December alone, in trials that trampled on defence rights. Journalists in Israel (112th, -20) enjoy real freedom of expression despite the existence of military censorship but the country fell in the index because of the Israeli military’s targeting of journalists in the Palestinian Territories. In Asia, Japan (53rd, -31) has been affected by a lack of transparency and almost zero respect for access to information on subjects directly or indirectly related to Fukushima. This sharp fall should sound an alarm. Malaysia (145th, -23) has fallen to its lowest-ever position because access to information is becoming more andmore limited. The same situation prevails in Cambodia (143rd, -26), where authoritarianism and censorship are on the increase. Macedonia (116th, -22) has also fallen more than 20 places following the arbitrary withdrawal of media licences and deterioration in the environment for journalists.###
01.29.13	01.29.13 Rep. Schiff Calls on U.S. Postal Service to Keep Historic Glendale Post Office Open Glendale, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) sent a letter to U.S. Postal Service Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe calling on him to keep open the historic Glendale Post Office on Broadway. While the Postal Service has not confirmed the reports, it is clear that they are moving ahead with potential closures and consolidations throughout the Los Angeles area, including two consolidations in Pasadena and the City of Industry, and the post office in Glendale might be next on the chopping block. In the letter, Schiff writes: “Closing the Post Office would mean a significant degradation in services for the community. Small business owners and families who rely on the Post Office on a daily basis to help their firms grow and mail care packages, respectively, will likely have to travel far outside the downtown business district to conduct their business with USPS. Additionally, seniors who depend on being able to access the Post Office on foot will no longer have a Post Office within walking distance. This step is misguided not only because it will negatively affect the services USPS provides the community, but also because closing the Post Office will not achieve anywhere near the level of cost savings that USPS needs to improve its fiscal health. USPS faces an annual multibillion dollar operating deficit, but selling the Post Office will do little compared to the scale of the financial challenges USPS faces. Unfortunately, the damage done by selling the Post Office would be permanent – the community would never be able to get back its beautiful and historic Post Office.”The USPS announced plans to move ahead with a modified plan to consolidate its network of 461 mail processing locations in phases. The first phase of activities will result in up to 140 consolidations through February of 2013. Unless the circumstances of the Postal Service change in the interim, a second and final phase of 89 consolidations is currently scheduled to begin in February of 2014. These consolidating activities will reduce the size of the Postal Service workforce by approximately 13,000 employees after the first phase. When fully implemented in late 2014, the Postal Service expects its consolidations to lead to total workforce reduction up to 28,000 employees.The full letter is below: The Honorable Patrick R. DonahoePostmaster GeneralU.S. Postal Service475 L'Enfant Plaza, SWWashington, DC 20260-0010 Mr. Donahoe,It has come to my attention that the United States Postal Service (USPS) is considering closing and selling the historic Glendale Post Office on Broadway. I strongly encourage the Postal Service to keep the Post Office at that location open and reject any potential sale. Closing the Post Office would mean a significant degradation in services for the community. Small business owners and families who rely on the Post Office on a daily basis to help their firms grow and mail care packages, respectively, will likely have to travel far outside the downtown business district to conduct their business with USPS. Additionally, seniors who depend on being able to access the Post Office on foot will no longer have a Post Office within walking distance. This step is misguided not only because it will negatively affect the services USPS provides the community, but also because closing the Post Office will not achieve anywhere near the level of cost savings that USPS needs to improve its fiscal health. USPS faces an annual multibillion dollar operating deficit, but selling the Post Office will do little compared to the scale of the financial challenges USPS faces. Unfortunately, the damage done by selling the Post Office would be permanent – the community would never be able to get back its beautiful and historic Post Office.Instead of selling the Post Office on Broadway and other post offices across the region and the country, USPS should be pursuing a larger, more comprehensive approach to its financial health, while minimizing service reductions and the loss of local jobs. The current legal requirement that USPS prefund its retirement health benefit program by $5.5 billion per year is one of the largest sources of USPS’s financial woes. USPS should use the funds it has previously overpaid in retirement benefit liabilities to meet the prefunding requirement. The United States Postal Service Pension Obligation Recalculation and Restoration Act (H.R. 1351), of which I am a cosponsor, would do just that.I strongly urge the United States Postal Service to retain the historic Glendale Post Office on Broadway.Sincerely,Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress###
01.24.13	01.24.13 Rep. Schiff Joins Colleagues in Introducing Assault Weapons Ban Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) joined with his colleagues led by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Rep. Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) as an original cosponsor of a renewed Assault Weapons Ban. This bill will specifically ban the sale, transfer, importation or manufacturing of over 100 specifically-named firearms and strengthens the 1994 law by moving from a 2-characteristic test to a 1-characteristic test and eliminating the ten year sunset that allowed the original ban to expire. Further, the legislation will protect responsible hunters and gun owners by exempting hundreds of specifically-named weapons used for hunting and sporting purposes and grandfathering weapons legally possessed on the date of enactment.“Senator Feinstein led the charge almost twenty years ago to pass the Assault Weapons Ban, but it has since been allowed to expire. It is past time to put that law, which would have outlawed the type of gun used by the shooters at Aurora and Newtown, back in place,” said Rep. Schiff. “Beyond the Assault Weapons Ban, we need to use a multifaceted approach, including universal background checks, making sure we keep better mental health records, banning high capacity ammunition clips, going after straw purchasers, and eliminating the gun industry's ability to act negligently with impunity. No one thinks that this fight is going to be easy, but who can be content to do nothing in the face of one awful tragedy after another.”Specifically, this legislation would accomplish several important steps in curbing future gun violence and tragedies:Ban the sale, transfer, importation or manufacturing of about 150 named firearms, plus certain rifles, handguns and shotguns fitted for detachable magazines and having at least one military characteristic;Strengthen the 1994 ban by moving from a two- to a one-characteristic test to determine what constitutes an assault weapon;Ban firearms with "thumbhole stocks" and "bullet buttons;”Ban the importation of assault weapons and large-capacity magazines; andBan high-capacity ammunition magazines that hold more than 10 rounds. ###
01.23.13	01.23.13 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Crack Down on Straw Purchases of Firearms Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor and Member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, introduced the Straw Purchaser Penalty Enhancement Act, which would create a new two-year sentence for certain “straw purchasers” of firearms. Straw purchasers in the United States are responsible for many of the illegal firearm transfers to the Mexican drug cartels. Current federal penalties have provided prosecutors with little leverage in their efforts to tackle gang and cartel violence. Schiff’s legislation would provide prosecutors with a new tool to go after the gangs and drug cartels and the gun smugglers that arm them. “During my time as a federal prosecutor, I learned that one of the most powerful tools in our arsenal was the ability to ‘roll’ lower-level offenders to get at those who were higher up and the most responsible for gun violence,” said Schiff. “The laws currently on the books targeting straw purchasers of firearms don’t treat it as anything other than a paperwork violation. We need to crack down on those who are buying weapons with the express purpose of providing them to those who can't pass a background check. Straw purchasing is not a ‘paperwork’ violation – it’s a serious crime that has led to a horrendous increase in criminal access to firearms.”During his press conference last week, President Obama called for stronger penalties for straw purchasers, remarking: “Congress needs to help, rather than hinder, law enforcement as it does its job. We should get tougher on people who buy guns with the express purpose of turning around and selling them to criminals. And we should severely punish anybody who helps them do this.”Schiff’s legislation would create a new two year penalty for a straw purchaser who intentionally deceives a gun dealer about the true identity of the gun’s purchaser. The sentence would be in addition to the penalty under existing law. The bill also requires that gun purchasers be notified when they buy a gun that lying about the true purchaser of a gun is a serious offense. Schiff also made modifications to the version he introduced last Congress with the inclusion of a “Safe Harbor” provision that allows judges to reduce sentences for a narrow category of defendants.Groups from across the ideological spectrum have called for enhanced laws to prosecute gun trafficking, including Mayors Against Illegal Guns and the National Shooting Sports Foundation.###
01.22.13	01.22.13 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Give Gun Victims Their Day in Court Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced legislation, The Equal Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act, to ensure that the victims of gun violence are allowed to have their day in court and that the gun industry – manufacturers, sellers and interest groups – is not shielded from liability when it acts with negligence and disregard for public safety.“Good gun companies don’t need special protection from the law, and bad gun companies certainly don’t deserve it,” said Schiff. “Other industries across our country like automotive manufacturers, pharmaceutical firms and even cigarette companies don’t enjoy special protection under the law, and there is no reason to give the gun industry the right to act negligently. As part of our larger effort to stop gun violence in the country, everyone – including gun companies – should be held accountable for their actions.”In 2005, Congress passed legislation called the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA) which provides immunity in state and federal court from civil liability for licensed manufacturers, distributors, and dealers of firearms, as well as their trade associations, in most negligence and products liability actions. This immunity from liability under well-established common law principles that apply to everyone else in society is unique to the gun industry. As a result, gun makers and sellers have a lesser obligation to act with reasonable care for the safety of the public. It also means that gun sellers can turn a blind eye to straw purchasers or traffickers who may buy hundreds of weapons and traffick them to others with no background check whatsoever. A background check is only as effective as it is comprehensive and if gun dealers can sell to straw purchasers with impunity, it will allow large scale evasion of a universal background check system. As most gun companies are responsible businesses, this immunity only protects the worst actors in the industry.Schiff has been working with the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence to draft this legislation, which has already attracted a dozen cosponsors. "We are better than a nation where businesses have a duty to act reasonably if they sell bb guns or beer, but the gun sellers who irresponsibly profit off criminals are above the law that applies to everyone else,” said Dan Gross, President of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. “Most gun sellers are responsible business people who don't supply criminals, but unless current law is changed, the few bad apples in the industry will be held unaccountable to victims of their irresponsible conduct."When Congress passed the PLCAA, its supporters argued that it was necessary to protect the gun industry from frivolous lawsuits, but that victims of gun violence would not be shut out of the courts. Senator Larry Craig, the sponsor of the legislation and at the time a member of the NRA’s board, stated during debate on the Senate floor, “This bill will not prevent a single victim from obtaining relief for wrongs done to them by anyone in the gun industry.” In reality, numerous cases around the nation have been dismissed on the basis of PLCAA even when the gun dealers acted in a fashion that would qualify as negligent if it involved any other product. Victims in these cases were denied the right to even discover or introduce evidence of negligence.Schiff’s legislation allows civil cases to go forward against irresponsible bad actors. Letting courts hear these cases would provide justice to victims while creating incentives for responsible business practices that would reduce injuries and deaths.###
01.22.13	01.22.13 Reps. Adam Schiff and Frank Wolf Call on Department of Homeland Security to Extend Humanitarian Parole for Syrian Refugees Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) called on their colleagues to join them on a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano to use her authority to extend humanitarian parole – which would provide a temporary visa for those in an emergency situation – to the nearly six thousand Syrian nationals with approved immigrant petitions. By doing this, the Secretary would allow Syrians who have been waiting for a visa, to reunite with their family members in the United States without delay. Over the past two years, the ongoing Syrian civil war has become a humanitarian emergency and a source of tremendous suffering – many Syrians have relocated within the country to stay with friends and family, hundreds of thousands have fled the country, and many more continue to leave each day in search of safety. Of these refugees, members of religious minorities, including the country's Christian population, are especially at risk and many have sought refuge in the United States.“Since the civil war in Syria erupted almost two years ago, we have seen our worst fears materialize, with a tremendous loss of life, suffering and heartache,” said Rep. Schiff. “DHS has an opportunity to help many trying to flee the violence and unite with family members in the United States. In 2010 when a devastating earthquake struck Haiti, the Administration took action to help bring orphaned children to the U.S. We should act in this humanitarian crisis as well, and I hope that the Secretary will take swift action.” "Thousands have died and thousands more have fled Syria, but the Christian minority, much like the Iraqi Christians before them, are particularly vulnerable,” Rep. Wolf said. “It’s in situations like these where we must remember the call of our founding fathers to be a ‘shining city upon a hill’ and offer our help and refuge to the suffering victims of the Syrian civil war.”Since the start of the Syrian civil war, there have been more than 600,000 refugees fleeing the country, according to the U.N. Refugee Agency. Additionally, more than 60,000 people, mostly civilians, have been killed in Syria and hundreds of thousands more have been displaced since the uprising against President Bashar al-Assad began in early 2011. Inside Syria alone, there are 4 million in need of assistance, including 2.5 million who are internally displaced. In recent months, international watchers have seen an escalation of the conflict, and there is concern that these numbers will only continue to increase unabated. Schiff and Wolf are circulating a letter to Secretary Napolitano to their Congressional colleagues which would urge the Secretary to use her administrative power to grant humanitarian parole to thousands waiting for permanent visas to enter the United States.Below is a copy of the letter the lawmakers are planning on sending: The Honorable Janet NapolitanoSecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityWashington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Napolitano: As Syria’s civil war continues unabated, international consensus on a way forward remains elusive, guaranteeing more fighting and dying in the coming months. In addition, the full force of a harsh winter has descended on the region, compounding the humanitarian catastrophe that confronts all Syrians. The Syrian crisis has put enormous strains on the international community, Syria’s neighbors and international relief agencies, which cannot meet the needs of vast numbers of refugees. As a global champion of human rights, the United States, too, must do more to protect and care for the innocent victims of the fighting, and, as a first step, we urge you to use your authority to swiftly extend humanitarian parole to Syrians with approved immigrant petitions. According to a United Nations report issued in early January, more than 60,000 Syrians have been killed since the conflict in Syria began in March 2011. An estimated 3000 Syrians are fleeing from the violence and crossing into neighboring countries each day. In total, nearly 600,000 Syrians have fled and an estimated one million more will leave over the next six months as conditions are expected to deteriorate, especially in and around Damascus. Those who remain within Syria’s border desperately need assistance. With the deteriorating humanitarian situation, Syrians are in great need of food, shelter, and life-saving medical attention. Some cities no longer have operational medical facilities and many are without electricity. The humanitarian aid over the next six months may exceed an additional $1.5 billion. The Refugee-Escapee Act of 1957, which was passed in the wake of the Hungarian Revolution against the Soviet Union, was the first use of humanitarian parole authority for a group of refugees. Since then, the authority has been used in a number of other cases, including the Lautenberg Amendment of 1989 to provide adjustment for Jews and Christians from the former Soviet Union and re-education camp survivors, the 1994 Cuban Migration Crisis, as well as the parole of certain Haitian orphans in 2010. According to the National Visa Center, as of October 2012, there are 5,947 Syrians with approved immigrant petitions. Humanitarian parole would provide much needed relief not only for those who are trying to escape the increasingly dangerous situation and reunite with family members in the United States, but it would also alleviate the pressure on neighboring countries sheltering many tens of thousands of refugees. This is particularly a concern with religious minorities, including the Christian community, who are at great risk and the subject of persecution and reprisal. It is with the utmost urgency that we call on you to grant humanitarian parole to the nearly six thousand Syrians nationals who are the beneficiaries of an approved immediate relative petition and are waiting to immigrate to the United States. Sincerely, ###
01.16.13	01.16.13 Rep. Schiff Praises President's Recommendations to Address Gun Violence in Our Nation Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor, outspoken legislator on gun violence, and currently serving as a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, praised President Barack Obama’s announcement today of a series of executive orders, Congressional legislation and administrative actions to address the number of gun violence tragedies across our nation. Schiff released this statement:“This morning I joined with other Congress Members, Vice President Biden, and the families of many of the twenty children and six adults killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School to hear the President’s plan to address the scourge of gun violence in our nation. The President articulated a reasonable set of proposals – both through executive order and Congressional action – that will keep guns out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill, while respecting the right of law-abiding Americans to own a gun.“As the President described, this requires a multifaceted approach, including universal background checks, making sure we keep better mental health records, banning high capacity ammunition clips, and reinstating and improving the Assault Weapons Ban. I am looking forward to continuing to work with the House Gun Violence Task Force to move gun violence prevention legislation through Congress, including a bill I am introducing to ensure that victims of gun violence have the same rights to hold gun makers and gun sellers accountable for negligence, and reintroducing legislation I authored last session to crack down on straw purchasers of guns who assist others in illegally obtaining weapons without background checks.”###
01.15.13	01.15.13 Rep. Schiff Announces Winners of the 2012 Los Angeles County Congressional CDBG Recognition of Excellence Awards Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced the winners of the 2012 Los Angeles County Congressional Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Recognition of Excellence Awards. The winners are The Kids’ Community Dental Clinic of Burbank, The Boys and Girls Club of both Pasadena, and the Boys and Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley. The winners were chosen in December of 2012. Schiff is recognizing programs and projects that resided in the former 29th Congressional District, which he represented at that time the awards were announced.Each of the three awards provides vital services to low- and moderate-income residents in the communities of the former 29th Congressional District. The Kids’ Community Dental Clinic of Burbank, in addition to educating families about oral health and cavity prevention, provide over 7,000 patients with $1,000,000 of dental care annually. The Boys and Girls Club of Pasadena helps at-risk youth stay on path to bright futures through tutoring and mentoring. These services are provided to an average of 430 children daily. The Boys and Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley teaches teens to succeed academically, live a healthy life, and be good citizens. Over 300 children are served each month, resulting in higher reading and math scores and lower absences at school.“These programs exemplify the great work that is made possible by federal CDBG dollars,” said Rep. Schiff. “The Kids’ Community Clinic and the Boys and Girls Clubs each provide essential services for low income children and families in our communities.”Many low- and moderate-income residents in the former 29th District depend on social programs for health and dental care, education, and housing. In Schiff’s district, 24.5% of all individuals under the age of 18 live below the poverty line. These programs help move low-income residents out of poverty and toward self-sufficiency. The Los Angeles County Congressional CDBG Recognition of Excellence Award, which is in its pilot year, was started by a group of Los Angeles County CDBG administrators who wanted to showcase the work of local programs funded by the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program.
01.14.13	01.14.13 Rep. Schiff to Introduce Legislation to Give Gun Victims Their Day in Court Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he will introduce legislation, The Access to Justice for Victims of Gun Violence Act, to ensure that the victims of gun violence are allowed to have their day in court and that the gun industry – manufacturers, sellers and interest groups – is not shielded from liability when it acts with negligence and disregard for public safety. Schiff is a former federal prosecutor, outspoken legislator on gun violence, and is currently serving as a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.In 2005, Congress passed legislation called the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (PLCAA) which provides immunity in state and federal court from civil liability for licensed manufacturers, distributors, and dealers of firearms, as well as their trade associations, in most negligence and products liability actions. This immunity from liability under well-established common law principles that apply to everyone else in society is unique to the gun industry. Against all logic, makers and sellers of some of the most deadly products, firearms, have the lowest obligations to act with reasonable care for the safety of the public. It also means that gun sellers can turn a blind eye to straw purchasers or traffickers who may buy hundreds of weapons and sell them to others with no background check whatsoever. A background check is only as effective as it is comprehensive and if gun dealers can sell to straw purchasers with impunity, this represents another gaping loophole. As most gun companies are responsible businesspeople, this immunity only protects the worst actors in the industry.“Good gun companies don’t need special protection from the law, and bad companies don’t deserve it,” said Schiff. “Other industries across our country don’t enjoy this protection under the law – from pharmaceutical firms to automotive manufacturers or even cigarette companies – and it's inexcusable for Congress to give the NRA and gun manufacturers a blank check. It’s time to roll back this protection as part of our larger effort on stopping gun violence in our country, and make everyone – including gun companies – accountable for their actions.”Schiff has been working with the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence to draft this legislation, and will begin to gather co-sponsors this week."We are better than a nation where businesses have a duty to act reasonably if they sell bb guns or beer, but the gun sellers who irresponsibly profit off criminals are above the law that applies to everyone else,” said Dan Gross, President of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. “Most gun sellers are responsible business people who don't supply criminals, but unless current law is changed, the few bad apples in the industry will be held unaccountable to victims of their irresponsible conduct."When Congress pass the PLCAA, supporters assured Americans that it was necessary to protect the gun industry from frivolous lawsuits, but that victims of gun violence would not be shut out of the courts. Senator Larry Craig, the sponsor of the legislation and at the time a member of the NRA’s board, stated during debate on the Senate floor, “This bill will not prevent a single victim from obtaining relief for wrongs done to them by anyone in the gun industry.” In reality, numerous cases around the nation have been dismissed on the basis of PLCAA even when the gun dealers acted in a fashion that would qualify as negligent if it involved any other product. Victims in these cases are denied the right to even discover evidence and then introduce evidence of negligence.Schiff’s legislation allow civil cases to go forward against irresponsible bad actors. Letting courts hear these cases would provide justice to victims while creating incentives for responsible business practices that would reduce injuries and deaths.
01.03.13	01.03.13 Rep. Schiff Sworn Into Congress to Represent Newly Drawn 28th Congressional District Washington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) was sworn into Congress for his seventh term to serve California's 28th Congressional District. Schiff announced that he will continue to serve on the powerful House Appropriations Committee and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence."We have so much to accomplish over the next two years," said Rep. Schiff. "It's my hope that we can work together on both sides of the aisle to tackle some of our country's most pressing challenges – restoring jobs and the economy, cutting our debt and deficit, finding commonsense solutions to gun violence, and continuing to bolster our national security. Congress must stop lurching from crisis to crisis and proactively address the challenges we face."Rep. Schiff will represent the 28th District in Congress, including all or parts of Atwater Village, Burbank, East Hollywood, Echo Park, Elysian Valley, Glendale, Griffith Park, Hollywood, Hollywood Hills, La Cañada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Los Feliz, Montrose, Pasadena, Shadow Hills, Silver Lake, Sunland, Tujunga and West Hollywood.Schiff continued, "While I'm sad that I will no longer represent many areas that I have represented for the past decade, I've enjoyed getting to know so many of my new constituents and getting reacquainted with those communities that I represented earlier in my career."Prior to the last redistricting ten years ago, Schiff represented Atwater Village, Silver Lake, Los Feliz, Sunland, Tujunga, La Crescenta, and La Cañada Flintridge – all parts of the new 28th District. He has always represented Burbank, Glendale and Pasadena, much of which are also included in the 28th.Prior to serving in the House of Representatives, Schiff completed a four-year term as State Senator for California's 21st State Senate District, chairing the Senate Judiciary Committee, the Senate Select Committee on Juvenile Justice and the Joint Committee on the Arts. He led legislative efforts to guarantee up-to-date textbooks in the classroom, overhaul child support, and pass a patient's bill of rights. Before serving in the Legislature, Schiff served with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Los Angeles for six years.###
01.01.13	01.01.13 Rep. Schiff Statement on House Passage of Fiscal Cliff Legislation Washington, DC -- Tonight, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after voting to pass legislation to avert the Fiscal Cliff:"I'm grateful that Congress finally came together to pass a deal late last night to avoid going over the Fiscal Cliff. This bipartisan package is far from perfect, but it does protect middle class tax cuts, raise important new revenues and make the tax code more progressive. Most important, it avoids the body blow to the economy that would have accompanied going over the cliff."Still, it's clear that we have much left to do. I hope that in the coming months we can work together to focus on the debt and deficit issues we face as a nation, and avoid the brinkmanship that characterized last year's fight over the debt limit and cost our economy so dearly."
12.22.12	12.22.12 Rep. Schiff Calls for Balanced and Bipartisan Approach to Avert Fiscal Cliff Washington, DC – After last night’s failure to come to an agreement on Speaker Boehner’s “Plan B” legislation to avoid going over the Fiscal Cliff, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) once again called for the Speaker, President Obama and Congressional leaders to come together to pass a bipartisan and balanced bill that would avert end of the year tax increases and spending cuts:“It is plain from the Speaker's failure to get a majority of his conference to support his own proposal, that he must instead move to a balanced plan that, if it will not attract a majority of GOP members, can instead pass the House with votes from Members of both parties. A bipartisan approach has not been tried by the Speaker and is the only way to avoid the fiscal cliff.“It is disturbing that we have adjourned for the week without resolving this matter, and it is imperative that we come back shortly, reach a reasonable compromise and avoid the dire consequences of failure.”###
12.21.12	12.21.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on State Department Report on Benghazi Terrorist Attack Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement on the State Department’s “Accountability Review Board” report on the Benghazi terrorist attack: “The State Department ‘Accountability Review Board’ issued a thorough and objective report on the Benghazi incident, and I congratulate Ambassador Thomas Pickering and commission members for their analysis of what went wrong in Benghazi and what steps are necessary to prevent its recurrence elsewhere. “Security at the diplomatic post was plainly inadequate, intelligence collection needs to be improved, and our reliance on local militias was sorely misplaced. These are not mistakes we can afford to make again. The events in Benghazi necessitate a serious review of our security in other dangerous locations throughout the globe. But while that review takes place, we must be careful to strike a balance between securing our facilities and personnel, and also ensuring that our diplomats remain effective and not holed up in bunkers. “Congress and the State Department will need to work together to implement the Board’s recommendations – already accepted by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton – and provide the funding needed to meet those objectives. I have read reports that the State Department is looking to reprogram some unspent Iraq reconstruction money to augment the security of diplomatic posts in high threat areas. I think that would be an excellent first step towards hardening our facilities overseas."
12.18.12	12.18.12 House Passes Rep. Schiff Bill to Award Grants to States to Implement DNA Collection for Felony Arrestees Washington DC –Today, the Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2012 (H.R. 6014), sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), passed the House of Representatives by voice vote. Originally introduced in 2010, Katie’s Law bears the name of Katie Sepich, a college student who was raped and murdered in 2003 in New Mexico. Her attacker was arrested several times over subsequent years but was never linked to Katie’s murder, as his DNA was not collected until 2006.“Katie’s Law is an important step we can take that will save lives. Every improvement we make to our DNA system, means more violent crimes solved and more violent felons taken of the street. It is a smart approach that also has the merit of saving taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. Schiff. “Just as we fingerprint arrestees, it makes sense to collect a DNA profile when someone is arrested for a violent felony, and this bill will encourage states around the nation to join California and the 24 other states that have adopted arrestee testing. DNA technology has an unmatched power to identify the guilty and to clear the innocent, and we should use it to its fullest potential. It’s my hope that the Senate will take up and pass this legislation in the remaining days of the session.”The Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2012, also known as Katie’s Law, establishes a program to provide grants to states which implement DNA collection programs for arrestees of murder, sexual assault, kidnapping, burglary, and aggravated assault. States are authorized to collect DNA for a larger subset of crimes but must do so for those felony arrests. While this new law does not authorize any new funding, it uses funding sources within the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Reduction Act and specifies that up to $10 million in each fiscal year from 2013 to 2015 may go to grants to states under Katie’s law.An example of the power of arrestee testing comes from a case in Los Angeles. In 1987, Chester Turner was arrested for assault in California, but freed due to a lack of evidence. DNA technology was in its infancy at the time and Turner’s DNA was not taken upon arrest. Turner continued to terrorize a Los Angeles community and was arrested nineteen more times before being convicted of rape in 2002. Only then was his DNA profile taken, and it matched evidence found on twelve rape and murder victims, the first murdered only two months after his 1987 arrest. Had California taken his DNA when he was first arrested, as is now required under state law, his decades long crime spree could have been prevented or cut short.
12.18.12	12.18.12 Los Angeles Daily News - Exclusive survey: California Democrats agree to ban assault weapons, Republicans mostly silent By Josh Richman and Andrew Edwards, Staff Writers Democrats representing California in Congress are promising to push for new gun control measures in the aftermath of the horrific slayings at a Connecticut elementary school last week, but the state's Republicans representatives were mostly silent amid the renewed debate over firearms legislation. An exclusive survey of all 53 California House members and members-elect, by the Los Angeles News Group and Bay Area News Group, found all 32 of the 38 Democrats who responded to the survey support re-enacting some version of the federal assault weapons ban that existed from 1994 to 2004. Many would consider even more stringent gun controls and said some popular firearms, such as the .223-caliber AR-15, are "weapons of war" that are unfit for civilian use. "Reinstating and improving the Assault Weapons Ban should be one of the first issues Congress takes up next year," said Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Glendale. Gun control has moved to the forefront of political debate following Friday's massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. There, Adam Lanza shot and killed 20 children and six adults before committing suicide. Lanza is reported to have used a Bushmaster AR-15 during the rampage. Authorities said Saturday that Lanza's victims at the school had all been shot at close range with the rifle. Previously, Lanza was said to have used Glock and Sig-Sauer handguns. He is also reported to have stolen the guns from his mother before shooting her to death and then beginning his killings at the school. "Before the horrific shooting in Newtown, I was involved in conversations about putting in place common-sense regulations like the Assault Weapons Ban, closing the gun-show loophole and outlawing extended ammunition clips," said Schiff, who is a former federal prosecutor. The near-total silence from California's GOP delegation, however, perhaps illustrates the deep partisan divide Congress will experience during the impending debate. Only one of California's 15 GOP House members specifically answered the four questions posed by the newspapers: Rep. Tom McClintock, R-Granite Bay, who took a stand against increased gun control. "Such laws tend to create a society in which criminals are as well-armed as ever and law-abiding citizens are rendered increasingly defenseless," McClintock said. Citizens have a constitutional right to defend themselves with firearms, he said, and the Bushmaster rifle might look like a military assault weapon "but functions with the same firing mechanism as many handguns, sports and target rifles." Other California Republicans were less willing to offer their opinions. Rep. Ken Calvert, R-Corona, and Rep. Gary Miller, R-Brea, declined to discuss gun-control issues until after a full investigation of the Connecticut rampage is done. Rep.-elect Doug LaMalfa, R-Oroville, said "restricting the rights of those who follow the law will only empower those who choose to break the law," but he wouldn't answer specific questions. All other Republicans either were said to be unavailable for comment, or never responded to calls and emails. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, chairwoman of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, said her members stand ready to act. "If Republicans want to change, we'll work with them," said Lofgren, D-San Jose, noting other mass shootings "didn't seem to move the dial on the other side of the aisle. I hope that something this appalling might stir my colleagues to action." There was more backlash from the Newtown shootings on Tuesday. • President Obama said he would support reinstatement of the federal assault weapons ban. • Private equity firm Cerberus, in which the California State Teachers' Retirement System is an investor, said it will sell the parent company that makes the Bushmaster gun used in the attack. • Dick's Sporting Goods, with more than 500 stores in 44 states, said it's suspending sales of modern sporting rifles. The phrase "modern sporting rifles" often refers to AR-15 models that include the now-controversial Bushmaster .223 and similar semi-automatic firearms that resemble military weapons. Commercially available AR-15s cannot fire multiple rounds with a single trigger pull. They can, however, fire the same .223 cartridges used by the military. No California Democrat said Americans have a constitutional right to a weapon such as the AR-15 nor extended magazines. "Weapons of war are not intended for hunting or protecting your family," Rep.-elect Gloria Negrete-McLeod said in an emailed statement. "This ban prevents extremely deadly guns used for war to be sold or distributed within the civilian population." McLeod will represent a congressional district that includes parts of eastern Los Angeles County and the western Inland Empire. She won her seat in November by defeating veteran Rep. Joe Baca, a fellow Democrat who holds liberal views on social services on immigration but also has a pro-gun ownership reputation. McLeod, however, received more than $5.2 million in outside spending support from Independence USA, the super PAC of pro-gun control New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Baca had a 75 percent favorable rating from the National Rifle Association, compared to McLeod's 17 percent. California's senior senator, Democrat Dianne Feinstein, has already pledged to introduce legislation that would stop the manufacture and sale of more than 100 specific firearms plus others that have certain features. Feinstein's bill would also prohibit magazines that can hold more than 10 rounds and grandfather weapons that are now legal. Congressional Republicans have opposed all efforts to reinstate a federal assault weapons ban since the 1994 law that Bill Clinton signed expired in 2004. A 2004 National Institute of Justice study reported the previous Assault Weapons Ban had mixed results in reducing gun crimes. The law prohibited 118 weapons and large-capacity magazines carrying more than 10 rounds. Assault weapons, however, were only used in 2 percent to 8 percent of gun crimes prior to the ban. Assault rifles and other guns equipped with large magazines accounted for a higher share of murders of police officers and mass public shootings, incidents the 2004 study described as rare. The report also found the availability of pre-ban large capacity magazines made it easy for criminals to obtain them. "Should it be renewed, the ban's effects on gun violence are likely to be small at best and perhaps too small for reliable measurement," the 2004 report reads. The newspapers' survey taken this week found Democrats gave mixed reviews to the idea of requiring background checks, including mental-health screening, for all members of a household where guns are kept. Checking a purchasers' household may be too difficult to enforce, one said. "It just raises questions, who lives there, who doesn't, who moves into the home," said Rep.-elect Alan Lowenthal of Long Beach. Many Democrats, however, were willing to discuss the idea of requiring gun owners to take courses, get licenses and register all firearms similar to what states already require for cars. Gun rights advocates said they were not completely ready to debate gun laws. Chuck Michel, civil-rights attorney for the California Rifle and Pistol Association Foundation, said this isn't the right time. "Politicians pushing legislative wish lists so soon after the slayings are shameless opportunists taking advantage of an emotionally charged situation to advance a pre-existing agenda," he said. The National Rifle Association said in a statement issued Tuesday it's "shocked, saddened and heartbroken" by the Newtown slayings and is "prepared to offer meaningful contributions to help make sure this never happens again." The NRA wields significant influence on Capitol Hill. The Sunlight Foundation - a nonprofit, nonpartisan government transparency watchdog - reports the NRA spent 73 times what the leading pro-gun control advocacy organization, the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, spent on lobbying in the 112th Congress. Through June, the NRA spent $4.4 million on lobbying expenses to the Brady Campaign's $60,000. What's more, the NRA spent 3,199 times what the Brady Campaign spent on the 2012 election - $18.6 million to $5,816. Public opinion, however, has tilted in favor of gun control, at least in the days since the Newtown shooting. A CBS News poll in April found 39 percent of adults nationwide believed gun control laws should be made more strict, 13 percent said they should be made less strict and 41 percent said they should be kept as they are. A new poll conducted Friday through Sunday found 57 percent now want stricter laws, 9 percent want less strict laws, and 30 percent say the laws should be kept as they are. Staff Writers Josh Dulaney, Rick Orlov and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
12.11.12	12.11.12 Rep. Schiff Announces ChapCare Health Centers Will Receive $2.6 Million Annually To Provide Services to San Gabriel Valley Residents Washington DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced that Community Health Alliance of Pasadena (ChapCare) will receive a five year federal grant in the amount of $2,677,501 annually from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). This grant was awarded to ChapCare to continue to provide services to tens of thousands of medically under-insured and uninsured residents throughout the San Gabriel Valley. “For nearly two decades, ChapCare’s work in the San Gabriel Valley has exemplified quality care and attention to the needs of the local community. With these new federal funds, they will be able to continue providing health services to many more low-income families,” said Rep. Schiff. “ChapCare provides healthcare to many who are underserved and lack preventive services. This grant will ensure that their important work can continue and expand.” “With Rep. Adam Schiff’s generous support, ChapCare was able to secure continued federal funding,” said Margaret B. Martinez, ChapCare’s Chief Executive Officer. “As a result, ChapCare will continue to provide excellent, comprehensive, and innovative health care that is accessible to residents of the San Gabriel Valley.” The Health Center Cluster Grants Program is administered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and is awarded on a competitive basis to applicants with a reputation of quality and competent care to their community. The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) oversees the program. ChapCare is a network of HRSA-funded community health centers that has provided medical services to countless under-insured and uninsured residents of the San Gabriel Valley for almost 15 years. The organization operates 3 health centers in the Pasadena area, and a mobile van in the El Monte region. ChapCare provides over 54,000 primary healthcare visits annually to over 15,000 patients. ChapCare will open a new health center in the City of South El Monte in February 2013.
12.07.12	12.07.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on Supreme Court Granting Cert to Prop 8 and DOMA Cases Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff release the following statement after the Supreme Court announced it will take up marriage equality this term, hearing both a case stemming from California's Proposition 8 and a case from New York challenging the constitutionality of the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act: "With the Supreme Court’s decision to hear arguments on the constitutionality of California’s Proposition 8 which defines marriage as exclusively between a man and a women, I hope we have taken another step towards guaranteeing marriage equality under the law. I hope that the Court upholds the decision by the Court of Appeals, finding that Prop 8 was unconstitutionally discriminatory towards same-sex couples who simply want to exercise their basic human right to marry the person of their choosing. I also hope the Supreme Court strikes down the Defense of Marriage Act, which has prevented many couples from enjoying the full rights of marriage. "I look forward to the day when the right of any couple to marry is guaranteed everywhere in the nation.”
12.05.12	12.05.12 Rep. Adam Schiff Responds to Announcement of New Mars Rover Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) applauded the new Mars program missions announced by NASA, including a new robotic science rover set to launch in 2020. Over the past year, Schiff has worked with the planetary science community and his congressional colleagues to urge NASA to reconsider its ill-advised cuts to the Mars Program. Today’s announcement represents a major step away from that earlier decision, and Schiff will continue to push for expanded funding for the Mars Program through the regular Appropriations process and end of the year legislation.“I am pleased that NASA has announced the next steps in its robotic exploration of Mars, namely the launch of a Curiosity-class rover to the Martian surface in 2020,” said Rep. Schiff. “ In its few short months on Mars, Curiosity has broadened our understanding of our planetary neighbor, and the findings announced thus far point to even greater discoveries as Curiosity continues to explore Gale Crater and Mount Sharp. An upgraded rover with additional instrumentation and capabilities is a logical next step that builds upon now proven landing and surface operations systems. “While a 2020 launch would be favorable due to the alignment of Earth and Mars, a launch in 2018 would be even more advantageous as it would allow for an even greater payload to be launched to Mars. I will be working with NASA, the White House and my colleagues in Congress to see whether advancing the launch date is possible and what it would entail.”According to NASA, the planned expansion of the Mars exploration program would consist of the current constellation of spacecraft on the surface and in orbit around Mars, as well s the new NASA rover and contributions to Europe’s planned ExoMars mission. The portfolio includes the Curiosity and Opportunity rovers; two NASA spacecraft and contributions to one European spacecraft currently orbiting Mars; the 2013 launch of the Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN (MAVEN) orbiter to study the Martian upper atmosphere; the Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport (InSight) mission, which will take the first look into the deep interior of Mars; and participation in ESA's 2016 and 2018 ExoMars missions, including providing "Electra" telecommunication radios to ESA's 2016 mission and a critical element of the premier astrobiology instrument on the 2018 ExoMars rover. The plan to design and build a new Mars robotic science rover with a launch in 2020 comes only months after the agency announced InSight, which will launch in 2016, bringing a total of seven NASA missions operating or being planned to study and explore our Earth-like neighbor. The 2020 mission will constitute another step toward being responsive to high-priority science goals and the president's challenge of sending humans to Mars orbit in the 2030s.The future rover development and design will be based on the Mars Science Laboratory (MSL) architecture that successfully carried the Curiosity rover to the Martian surface this summer. This will ensure mission costs and risks are as low as possible, while still delivering a highly capable rover with a proven landing system. The mission will constitute a vital component of a broad portfolio of Mars exploration missions in development for the coming decade.
12.04.12	12.04.12 Rep. Adam Schiff Responds to Announcement of New Mars Rover Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) applauded the new Mars program missions announced by NASA, including a new robotic science rover set to launch in 2020. Over the past year, Schiff has worked with the planetary science community and his congressional colleagues to urge NASA to reconsider its ill-advised cuts to the Mars Program. Today’s announcement represents a major step away from that earlier decision, and Schiff will continue to push for expanded funding for the Mars Program through the regular Appropriations process and end of the year legislation.“I am pleased that NASA has announced the next steps in its robotic exploration of Mars, namely the launch of a Curiosity-class rover to the Martian surface in 2020,” said Rep. Schiff. “In its few short months on Mars, Curiosity has broadened our understanding of our planetary neighbor, and the findings announced thus far point to even greater discoveries as Curiosity continues to explore Gale Crater and Mount Sharp. An upgraded rover with additional instrumentation and capabilities is a logical next step that builds upon now proven landing and surface operations systems.“While a 2020 launch would be favorable due to the alignment of Earth and Mars, a launch in 2018 would be even more advantageous as it would allow for an even greater payload to be launched to Mars. I will be working with NASA, the White House and my colleagues in Congress to see whether advancing the launch date is possible and what it would entail.”According to NASA, the planned expansion of the Mars exploration program would consist of the current constellation of spacecraft on the surface and in orbit around Mars, as well s the new NASA rover and contributions to Europe’s planned ExoMars mission. The portfolio includes the Curiosity and Opportunity rovers; two NASA spacecraft and contributions to one European spacecraft currently orbiting Mars; the 2013 launch of the Mars Atmosphere and Volatile EvolutioN (MAVEN) orbiter to study the Martian upper atmosphere; the Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport (InSight) mission, which will take the first look into the deep interior of Mars; and participation in ESA's 2016 and 2018 ExoMars missions, including providing "Electra" telecommunication radios to ESA's 2016 mission and a critical element of the premier astrobiology instrument on the 2018 ExoMars rover. The plan to design and build a new Mars robotic science rover with a launch in 2020 comes only months after the agency announced InSight, which will launch in 2016, bringing a total of seven NASA missions operating or being planned to study and explore our Earth-like neighbor. The 2020 mission will constitute another step toward being responsive to high-priority science goals and the president's challenge of sending humans to Mars orbit in the 2030s.The future rover development and design will be based on the Mars Science Laboratory (MSL) architecture that successfully carried the Curiosity rover to the Martian surface this summer. This will ensure mission costs and risks are as low as possible, while still delivering a highly capable rover with a proven landing system. The mission will constitute a vital component of a broad portfolio of Mars exploration missions in development for the coming decade.
12.04.12	12.04.12 Rep. Adam Schiff Calls on Appropriations Committee to Cut All Security Funding to Azerbaijan Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to Senators Patrick Leahy and Lindsey Graham, and Representatives Kay Granger and Nita Lowey –- the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the State and Foreign Operations Subcommittees in the House and Senate –- calling on them to cut all security assistance to Azerbaijan, including Azerbaijan’s International Military Education and Training Account (IMET) funding. This latest request comes after the egregious repatriation and release of Ramil Safarov, an Azerbaijani army captain who had confessed to the savage 2004 axe murder of Armenian army lieutenant Gurgen Margaryan during a NATO Partnership for Peace Program.“Azerbaijan has committed the most terrible subversion of justice – making a hero of a cold-blooded killer,” said Rep. Schiff. “Plainly the investment we have made in training Azeri forces has been worse than wasted. The United States must not tolerate any acts of aggression against Armenia or Nagorno-Karabakh, and this hateful action by President Aliyev undermines all international efforts to bring about a peaceful solution in the region.”The full letter Schiff sent to the Chairmen and Ranking Members is below:Dear Chairmen Leahy and Granger and Ranking Members Graham and Lowey:As you continue work on the 2013 State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs appropriations bill, I urge you to cut all security assistance to Azerbaijan, including Azerbaijan’s IMET funding, in response to the egregious repatriation and release of Ramil Safarov, an Azerbaijani army captain who had confessed to the savage 2004 axe murder of Armenian army lieutenant Gurgen Margaryan, while the latter slept. At the time, the two were participating in a NATO Partnership for Peace exercise in Budapest, Hungary. After the murder, Safarov was sentenced to life in prison by a Hungarian court and imprisoned in Hungary.On August 31, Safarov was sent home to Azerbaijan, purportedly to serve out the remainder of his sentence. Instead of prison, he was greeted as a hero by the Azeri government and promenaded through the streets of Baku carrying a bouquet of roses. President Ilham Aliyev immediately pardoned Safarov and he was promoted to the rank of major and given a new apartment and eight years of back pay.The Aliyev government’s rapturous welcome for Safarov in Baku exposes a fundamental contempt for the rule of law that is the underpinning of any state that aspires to greater integration into Euro-Atlantic institutions. It also further poisons relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia over the ethnic Armenian territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. The OSCE’s Minsk Group (United States, Russia and France) has been trying to work with the parties to fashion a settlement to a crisis that threatens to plunge the Caucasus into war. That effort, already difficult because of years of repeated sniping incidents by Azeri forces, as well as a stream of bellicose statements from Baku, is now even more challenging.Azerbaijan must pay a high price for its actions. Baku treasures the security assistance that it receives from Washington, not because it needs the money (it does not), but because it signifies a certain closeness in the bilateral relationship. By cutting off military aid to Azerbaijan, the United States would signal its disgust with the Safarov affair, while also reminding Aliyev that the United States will not tolerate any acts of aggression against Armenia or Nagorno-Karabakh.Furthermore, the United States should immediately suspend all IMET activities with Azerbaijan. According to the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which oversees IMET, the program has two aims:• To further the goal of regional stability through effective, mutually beneficial military-to-military relations which culminate in increased understanding and defense cooperation between the United States and foreign countries; and• To increase the ability of foreign national military and civilian personnel to absorb and maintain basic democratic values and protect internationally recognized human rights.Azerbaijan’s actions in pardoning, parading and promoting an axe-murderer like Safarov clearly indicate that our investment there in IMET has been an abject failure. The funding, training and support has plainly not fostered either regional stability or the absorption of democratic values and a respect for human rights.I would be happy to discuss this issue further with you or your staff, but we cannot continue to embrace a government and a military that operates at cross-purposes to our own interests and in violation of the most basic norms of international behavior. Sincerely,Adam SchiffMember of Congress
11.28.12	11.28.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on GOP's Renewed Attacks on UN Ambassador Susan Rice Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Community released the following statement: “This week, GOP Senators continued their unfounded criticism of UN Ambassador Susan Rice. This is a terrible disservice to a dedicated public servant, and a transparent attempt to deny the President a potential cabinet member of his choice. “The uncontested fact is that the intelligence community provided the talking points Ambassador Rice used as the basis of her statements in the wake of the Benghazi attacks. The changes that were made to those talking points were made by the intelligence community – not the White House, and not the UN Ambassador – and were made to protect classified sources of information. Unable to make the case that anyone outside the intelligence community was responsible for the inaccuracies in these talking points, some GOP Senators now claim that the UN Ambassador should have rejected the talking points because she supposedly had access to better classified information. “This is nonsense. Let’s not forget that at the time the UN Ambassador went on the Sunday talk shows, the Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the CIA both believed, erroneously, that Benghazi began as a protest. Are GOP Senators now claiming that Ambassador Rice had access to better intelligence than the heads of the intelligence agencies themselves? “It’s time to put the election behind us once and for all, and return our focus to where it should have been all along – hunting for those who attacked us that day and bringing them to justice.”
11.15.12	11.15.12 Rep. Schiff Statement Regarding Ambassador Susan Rice Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after leaving an Intelligence Committee hearing:“I have worked with United Nations Ambassador Susan Rice for several years, and have the greatest confidence in her knowledge, experience, integrity and ability, and I am deeply disturbed by the present attacks on her character.“On the afternoon of September 15th, the members of the Intelligence Committee were provided with what the intelligence community considered their best initial assessments of what took place in Benghazi when our diplomatic personnel tragically lost their lives. In an unclassified memorandum, the intelligence community assessed:The currently available information suggests that the demonstration in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the US Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the US diplomatic post in Benghazi and subsequently its annex. There are indications that extremists participated in the violent demonstrations.“The intelligence community also warned that ‘This assessment may change as additional information is collected and analyzed…’“At today’s hearing of the intelligence committee, CIA Acting Director Morell confirmed that this was their best assessment at the time, and that UN Ambassador Rice would also have been given the intelligence community’s best assessment for her appearances on the Sunday talk shows. In fact, this unclassified account is almost identical to what Ambassador Rice conveyed only hours later on the morning of September 16th. Director Morell stated that the fact this was the best assessment and that the UN Ambassador would have likewise been given the best assessment is not classified.“Those who have suggested that Ambassador Rice was politicizing the intelligence or misrepresenting what the intelligence community was putting forward as its best assessment are either unfamiliar with the facts, or willfully disregarding them. This is a disservice to a dedicated public servant and I hope these unfounded attacks on Ambassador Rice will come to a rapid end.”
09.27.12	09.27.12 Rep. Schiff Now Accepting Applications for Service Academy Nominations Pasadena, CA – Every year, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) nominates students from the 29th Congressional district for appointment to one of the five United States service academies, four of which require a Congressional nomination. With these appointments, students are provided a free college education at a nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing for an officer’s commission in our nation’s armed forces.“Students that are appointed to a service academy compile outstanding resumes of accomplishment, demonstrating excellence in both academics and extracurricular activities,” said Schiff. “It has been an honor to nominate students from our community in past years who are not only dedicated students, but are now serving our country honorably in our nation’s armed services. Each year, I nominate highly-qualified students to these academies and I encourage students to apply for these prestigious appointments.”Nominations are required for all but the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, to which appointments are made on the basis of an annual nationwide competition. All Members of Congress are able to nominate qualified high school students for admission to one of the four service academies. In order to be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated by an authorized person, including Members of the House of Representatives, Members of the United States Senate or the Vice President’s office.An applicant for a nomination must meet the following eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of admission to a service academy: He or she must be at least 17 years old, but not have passed their 23rd birthday, must be a United States citizen, and must be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents.The deadline for students interested in applying for nomination to a Service Academy for the Class of 2017 is October 26, 2012. For additional information, call Schiff’s Pasadena office at 626-304-2727 or visit his website for an application. ###
09.25.12	09.25.12 Test Headline With the short term continuing resolution that was just passed, the program is funded at the same level through March 2013. When Congress“I have been working closely with Caltech to address the very real cuts that they face from the current version of the House appropriations bill funding the Earthquake Hazard Reduction Program which would result in a 30% cut in funding. While Congress is most likely to pass a short-term continuing resolution, I’m also confident that when the House and Senate conference their respective appropriations bills, we will be able to secure the funding needed for this vital program.”
09.21.12	09.21.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on Armenian Independence Day Washington DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the 21st anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Armenia:“I rejoice with the dynamic Armenian community that I represent and proudly say ‘Oorakh Angakhootyan Or.’ Congratulations to the people of Armenia, to Armenians in America and around the world on this joyous day. The road to independence has not always been easy for this nation, but time has proven that Armenians are survivors—survivors of foreign domination and survivors of the first genocide of the 20th century. And to this day, Armenian-Americans continue to illustrate what a valuable asset they are to our society, breaking new ground economically, socially and politically in California and across the nation.“Over the years, I have been privileged to work with many individuals in the Armenian community to end our government's tragic failure to recognize the Armenian genocide, ensure the victims receive just compensation, and secure aid for Armenia and Nagorno Karabakh. As a friend to the Armenian community, I am honored to join you in commemorating this momentous anniversary. Congratulations to the government of Armenia and to the global Armenian community.” ###
09.20.12	09.20.12 Rep. Schiff Warns Metro of 710 Tunnel Cost and Community Impact Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) sent a letter to Chairman Michael Antonovich and members of the Los Angeles Metro Board warning them of the likelihood of massive fiscal and community costs associated with a tunnel and urging them to remove that option from further consideration in the “710 North Gap Closure Project." Instead he called on Metro to focus on less disruptive and costly options that will immediately bring congestion relief to residents of the surrounding communities. The letter is below: September 20, 2012 Hon. Michael Antonovich ChairmanLos Angeles Metro Board1 Gateway PlazaLos Angeles, CA 90012 Dear Chairman Antonovich and Metro Board Members, As you know, last month Metro released the final five options it will consider throughout the environmental review process for the “710 North Gap Closure Project.” After considering the strong community concerns expressed over the impact of a tunnel, and in light of the dramatically escalating and uncertain costs that would be incurred in its construction, I urge Metro to remove this option from consideration at the next appropriate stage in the review process. Many years ago, when Metro first proposed that a tunnel may provide a solution to the decades long fight over the 710 freeway, I supported a technical study to determine whether a tunnel was feasible so that the community could explore the full range of options. Metro represented at that time that because of the advancement of tunneling technology, it may be possible to construct a tunnel at little more than the cost of building a freeway at-grade or for about one and a half billion dollars. Metro also believed that a strong community consensus would emerge to support such a concept, if it made the case to the public. Neither claim would prove to be correct. Several years later, we know that although a tunnel is technologically feasible, it is cost prohibitive. Metro has refused to release an accurate figure on the cost of a tunnel, but it is safe to say that its original estimate is off by many billions of dollars. In any event, this is money we do not have and are not likely to obtain, and it would be a disservice to the community to invest substantial sums towards a project that may never be completed while forgoing more immediate traffic improvements that could do much to mitigate traffic and pollution now. It is also plain that the community consensus, far from supporting a tunnel, is strongly opposed to it. One of the reasons the technical study of the tunnel was designed to be route neutral, was so that the most logical route would be examined -- not the route that may have made sense when the proposal was at-grade, and not through only poor communities -- but in the corridor that made the most sense from a transportation, mitigation and neighborhood impact point of view. The result was salutary and informative; in each of the five zones in which the tunnel could be constructed, no community embraced the proposal. This was not a simple matter of each neighborhood simply wanting the tunnel elsewhere, but rather a recognition by each community that the price was too high, both fiscally and in terms of its impact on the quality of life, and not only for their own community, but for any community. These concerns, which echoed throughout the public hearings on the matter, include Metro’s intent to use tunnel boring machine (TBM) technology to construct the tunnel. The large and bulky TMB, which can be hundreds of feet long and tens of feet wide, will clog space in residential neighborhoods for years to come as the tunnel construction process can be quite lengthy. Moreover, once the TMB is underneath homes, the daily boring through rock and soil could cause severely disruptive vibrations. The quality of life in the communities surrounding the tunnel path will further be reduced as tens of noisy and polluting trucks will have to be used to remove the tons of rock and soil discharged from the machine. While constructing the tunnel will create a series of problems for the surrounding communities, the negative effects associated with pursing a tunnel option are not constrained to the construction phase of the project. Once the tunnel is complete, trucks and other vehicles using the tunnel will discharge harmful emissions for the 4.5 mile length of the tunnel. These emissions, such as hazardous air pollutants, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, will have to be captured and removed from the tunnel through portals and ventilation stacks at select points along the tunnel. The emissions will then be pumped into surrounding neighborhoods, reducing local air quality and exposing nearby residents to pollutants that could cause a wide range of health problems. These health problems include, but are not limited to, asthma and certain types of cancer. Additionally, tens of thousands of trucks will start using the tunnel on a daily basis when the tunnel is complete. These vehicles will begin passing through communities – Glendale and La Canada to the west and Arcadia and Monrovia to the east – that abut the 210. This will expose these communities to noisy vehicles that will interrupt peaceful neighborhoods, heavy trucks that will wear down the freeway and require that more taxpayer dollars be spent to maintain the freeway, and harmful emissions. Unfortunately, these problems will only grow worse over time as studies now indicate that for each percentage increase in road capacity there is a corresponding increase in vehicle traffic. The tunnel will not reduce traffic congestion in the region; instead it appears that a tunnel will only expose surrounding communities to more disturbances and harmful pollutants. Finally, the community has rightly expressed profound concerns over the cost of the project. While the project was originally estimated to cost approximately $1.5 billion, a 2011 study estimated it would cost $2.8 billion and now the Measure R extension expenditure plan believes it will cost $5.6 billion. How costly will it be in another year? Or two? Or ten? Metro expects to fund half of the project through private financing and another $1.8 through federal funding and the rest through Measure R funds. But Metro has not provided any information to taxpayers indicating that those estimates of expected private funding sources are sound. I am deeply concerned that taxpayers could be left picking up the full tab, if the highly speculative financing does not come through. These risks are magnified when you consider the likelihood that Metro's estimates are deeply inadequate. A 2003 study of global infrastructure projects determined that cost overruns occurred on nearly 90 percent of mega projects, such as a 710 tunnel, and that the average cost overrun for such tunnel projects was 34 percent. The environmental review process Metro is engaged in has been excessively focused on the tunnel option. I have expressed my concern over Metro's apparent rush to judgment on a tunnel option many times, but without success. This has only confirmed what many in the community suspected, that Metro was once again starting with the conclusion it wished to reach and working backwards. I urge Metro to give full and serious consideration as to how funds for a tunnel project could be better spent. I suspect that for less than the actual cost of a tunnel, Metro would have the funds necessary to undertake all of the remaining options under consideration -- combined. These options, transportation system management, bus rapid transit and light-rail would help move people in an environmentally friendly manner without disrupting our long-established neighborhoods. We can and we must pursue better options than constructing a tunnel for meeting our future transportation needs. I look forward to continuing our work on this vital issue, and appreciate your consideration of my thoughts on the way forward. Sincerely,Rep. Schiff Warns Metro of 710 Tunnel Cost and Community Impact Urges Metro to Remove Tunnel Option from Consideration Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) sent a letter to Chairman Michael Antonovich and members of the Los Angeles Metro Board warning them of the likelihood of massive fiscal and community costs associated with a tunnel and urging them to remove that option from further consideration in the “710 North Gap Closure Project." Instead he called on Metro to focus on less disruptive and costly options that will immediately bring congestion relief to residents of the surrounding communities. The letter is below: September 20, 2012 Hon. Michael Antonovich ChairmanLos Angeles Metro Board1 Gateway PlazaLos Angeles, CA 90012 Dear Chairman Antonovich and Metro Board Members, As you know, last month Metro released the final five options it will consider throughout the environmental review process for the “710 North Gap Closure Project.” After considering the strong community concerns expressed over the impact of a tunnel, and in light of the dramatically escalating and uncertain costs that would be incurred in its construction, I urge Metro to remove this option from consideration at the next appropriate stage in the review process. Many years ago, when Metro first proposed that a tunnel may provide a solution to the decades long fight over the 710 freeway, I supported a technical study to determine whether a tunnel was feasible so that the community could explore the full range of options. Metro represented at that time that because of the advancement of tunneling technology, it may be possible to construct a tunnel at little more than the cost of building a freeway at-grade or for about one and a half billion dollars. Metro also believed that a strong community consensus would emerge to support such a concept, if it made the case to the public. Neither claim would prove to be correct. Several years later, we know that although a tunnel is technologically feasible, it is cost prohibitive. Metro has refused to release an accurate figure on the cost of a tunnel, but it is safe to say that its original estimate is off by many billions of dollars. In any event, this is money we do not have and are not likely to obtain, and it would be a disservice to the community to invest substantial sums towards a project that may never be completed while forgoing more immediate traffic improvements that could do much to mitigate traffic and pollution now. It is also plain that the community consensus, far from supporting a tunnel, is strongly opposed to it. One of the reasons the technical study of the tunnel was designed to be route neutral, was so that the most logical route would be examined -- not the route that may have made sense when the proposal was at-grade, and not through only poor communities -- but in the corridor that made the most sense from a transportation, mitigation and neighborhood impact point of view. The result was salutary and informative; in each of the five zones in which the tunnel could be constructed, no community embraced the proposal. This was not a simple matter of each neighborhood simply wanting the tunnel elsewhere, but rather a recognition by each community that the price was too high, both fiscally and in terms of its impact on the quality of life, and not only for their own community, but for any community. These concerns, which echoed throughout the public hearings on the matter, include Metro’s intent to use tunnel boring machine (TBM) technology to construct the tunnel. The large and bulky TMB, which can be hundreds of feet long and tens of feet wide, will clog space in residential neighborhoods for years to come as the tunnel construction process can be quite lengthy. Moreover, once the TMB is underneath homes, the daily boring through rock and soil could cause severely disruptive vibrations. The quality of life in the communities surrounding the tunnel path will further be reduced as tens of noisy and polluting trucks will have to be used to remove the tons of rock and soil discharged from the machine. While constructing the tunnel will create a series of problems for the surrounding communities, the negative effects associated with pursing a tunnel option are not constrained to the construction phase of the project. Once the tunnel is complete, trucks and other vehicles using the tunnel will discharge harmful emissions for the 4.5 mile length of the tunnel. These emissions, such as hazardous air pollutants, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, will have to be captured and removed from the tunnel through portals and ventilation stacks at select points along the tunnel. The emissions will then be pumped into surrounding neighborhoods, reducing local air quality and exposing nearby residents to pollutants that could cause a wide range of health problems. These health problems include, but are not limited to, asthma and certain types of cancer. Additionally, tens of thousands of trucks will start using the tunnel on a daily basis when the tunnel is complete. These vehicles will begin passing through communities – Glendale and La Canada to the west and Arcadia and Monrovia to the east – that abut the 210. This will expose these communities to noisy vehicles that will interrupt peaceful neighborhoods, heavy trucks that will wear down the freeway and require that more taxpayer dollars be spent to maintain the freeway, and harmful emissions. Unfortunately, these problems will only grow worse over time as studies now indicate that for each percentage increase in road capacity there is a corresponding increase in vehicle traffic. The tunnel will not reduce traffic congestion in the region; instead it appears that a tunnel will only expose surrounding communities to more disturbances and harmful pollutants. Finally, the community has rightly expressed profound concerns over the cost of the project. While the project was originally estimated to cost approximately $1.5 billion, a 2011 study estimated it would cost $2.8 billion and now the Measure R extension expenditure plan believes it will cost $5.6 billion. How costly will it be in another year? Or two? Or ten? Metro expects to fund half of the project through private financing and another $1.8 through federal funding and the rest through Measure R funds. But Metro has not provided any information to taxpayers indicating that those estimates of expected private funding sources are sound. I am deeply concerned that taxpayers could be left picking up the full tab, if the highly speculative financing does not come through. These risks are magnified when you consider the likelihood that Metro's estimates are deeply inadequate. A 2003 study of global infrastructure projects determined that cost overruns occurred on nearly 90 percent of mega projects, such as a 710 tunnel, and that the average cost overrun for such tunnel projects was 34 percent. The environmental review process Metro is engaged in has been excessively focused on the tunnel option. I have expressed my concern over Metro's apparent rush to judgment on a tunnel option many times, but without success. This has only confirmed what many in the community suspected, that Metro was once again starting with the conclusion it wished to reach and working backwards. I urge Metro to give full and serious consideration as to how funds for a tunnel project could be better spent. I suspect that for less than the actual cost of a tunnel, Metro would have the funds necessary to undertake all of the remaining options under consideration -- combined. These options, transportation system management, bus rapid transit and light-rail would help move people in an environmentally friendly manner without disrupting our long-established neighborhoods. We can and we must pursue better options than constructing a tunnel for meeting our future transportation needs. I look forward to continuing our work on this vital issue, and appreciate your consideration of my thoughts on the way forward. Sincerely,
09.20.12	09.20.12 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils "2012 International Piracy Watch List" Washington, DC – Today, the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), and Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), unveiled the “2012 International Piracy Watch List.” In an effort to fight copyright piracy and call attention to countries where it has reached alarming levels, the Caucus highlighted the high levels of piracy and the lack of legal protections for copyright in the following five countries: China, Russia, Italy, Switzerland and Ukraine. The report also highlights Canada and Spain as countries in transition following the enactment of stronger legal frameworks for the protection of copyright in both nations. To read the full report, please click here.Copyright dependent industries – film, home video and television programming, music, books, video games, and software – play an enormous role in the American economy. According to a report from the International Intellectual Property Alliance, core copyright industries employed 5.1 million Americans in 2010 in jobs that paid 27 percent more than the average wage. These industries remain some of our most internationally competitive, collectively ranking as the second largest exporting sector in the U.S. However, as the Anti-Piracy Caucus Watch List highlights, they frequently do not compete on a level playing field due to the rampant levels of piracy in many major international markets.The 2012 Watch List also highlights progress made in engaging cooperative private sector efforts to reduce piracy. In 2011, the Caucus noted the frequent appearance of advertising for legitimate brands on rogue websites dedicated to providing access to pirated material. These advertisements lend a false air of legitimacy to rogue sites while helping to subsidize their operations. The Caucus called on players in the online advertising ecosystem to take steps to prevent legitimate ads from appearing on rogue sites. In the 2012 Watch List, the co-chairs welcomed the recent release of a “best practices” document by the Association of National Advertisers and the American Association of Advertising Agencies urging their members to take affirmative steps to avoid the placement of advertising on pirate sites.“Whether it is movie makers, music producers and app makers to entrepreneurs creating the newest must-have gadget, our economy is based upon the principle that property should be respected -- not stolen --and this right does not end at the water's edge. This is not only fair, but it is good economics,” said Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA). “That’s why we started the Watch List – to alert those pirates and the countries helping them that we are paying attention and we expect our trading partners to protect the intellectual property rights of creators. Our creative industries employ millions of Americans and are some of our most competitive exports. All we want is a level playing field where all nations live up to their obligations to protect intellectual property and enforce existing laws.”“The recognition of an author’s ownership in an original creative work is one of our legal system’s core principles,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). “If we allow people to take that work without paying for it, artists will no longer have any financial incentive to create new movies, software, video games, books and music. The end result is the loss of billions of dollars in revenue for the U.S. each year and even greater losses to our economy in terms of reduced job growth and exports. While the U.S. is the world’s leader in intellectual property protections, the problem does not stop at our borders. The only way to ensure the full protection of Americans’ creative works is to actively encourage other countries around the globe to enact and enforce strong intellectual property laws.”“Innovation, hard work, and creativity long have fueled the American dream and are the reason for the continued worldwide demand for American movies, music, books, and software,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). “Theft of our intellectual property undercuts the hard work of Americans in these industries and the U.S. economy as a whole. Our trading partners must ensure that American intellectual property is appropriately protected.”“I wish it could be said that the 2012 International Anti-Piracy Watch List contained some promising news,” said Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT). “Unfortunately, this year’s Watch List confirms that copyright piracy continues to spread at an alarming pace. Our copyright laws are designed to encourage the creation of new works that inspire and delight us. Conversely, IP piracy takes something for nothing – representing the largest transfer of wealth in history. Over time our artists may simply choose not to share their talents and creations with us. And who can blame them, especially if we cannot protect their intellectual property rights? This is a global cause worthy of our best efforts.”The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which was originally formed in 2003, is made up of over 65 members of Congress. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
09.13.12	09.13.12 Pasadena Journal Op-ed: New Voter Suppression Laws Threaten to Turn Back the Clock By Rep. Adam SchiffWritten for the Pasadena JournalIn the State of Florida, some state legislators and election officials are trying to do away with most early voting, and in particular, a very successful program to allow voters to cast their ballots the weekend before the election. Similarly in Ohio, another key battleground state this election, officials are trying to do away with an early election program put into place after the disastrous 2000 election in which voters had to wait hours on election day in order to vote.Given the success of these programs in boosting voter participation, it is logical to ask why some officials are trying to curtail them. The answer given – to attack the problem of voter fraud – simply doesn't add up. For one thing, there is very little evidence of actual voter fraud, as opposed to registration fraud. And for another, there is no reason to believe that early voting is subject to greater fraud than same day voting.The more plausible explanation is far less benign – these laws are designed to reduce legitimate voter turnout and in particular, discourage minority voters. In Florida, more than half of African Americans cast their ballots the weekend before the last Presidential election. Similarly, in Ohio and other states which allow early voting, a disproportionate number of minority voters take advantage of the opportunity to cast their ballots before election day.It's not just early voting that is under assault, as states adopt a range of policies to roll back access to the ballot box. These include ending same day registration, reducing absentee voting, and most prevalent of all – imposing a new requirement for voters to present a government-issued photo ID or other documentary proof of citizenship in order to vote.These new requirements have come despite eleven percent of American citizens lacking a photo ID and another seven percent of our citizens not possessing formal "proof" of citizenship. Most shocking is the impact of these new identification requirements on the African-American community in particular – one in four African-Americans do not have a state ID, and these types of voter ID laws are now on the books in at least thirty states.The new voter suppression laws will lead to significant burdens for voters who only want to exercise their right and let their voices be heard. According to the non-partisan Brennan Center for Justice, it is estimated that these new laws would make it harder for 10 million eligible Americans to cast their ballots. While these new laws will lower voter registration and turnout across the board, they will specifically and disproportionately impact young, elderly, minority, low-income, and disabled voters.Fortunately, the courts have been loath to countenance this blatant effort to disenfranchise minority voters. Federal courts in Florida, Ohio and Texas have acted to suspend these laws in some – but not all – affected jurisdictions. But more needs to be done to ensure we do not turn the clock back and eviscerate the right which is deemed the foundation of all other rights.Along with many of my colleagues in the House – including giants like Congressmen John R. Lewis and James E. Clyburn – I have co-sponsored the Voter Empowerment Act. This bill will modernize our voter registration system to guarantee equal access for all Americans and to protect voters from restrictive voting measures – combating the state laws that make it more difficult for eligible voters to get to the polls. It will also modernize the way we vote by requiring voter registration be made available on the Internet, automatic registration for certain individuals, ensure same-day registration, facilitate individuals with disabilities to vote, and accept voter registration applications from potential voters who are at least 16 years old.Four years ago, America elected its first African American president and the nation celebrated the immense new stride it had taken towards equality for all its citizens. On that night, President Obama spoke about Ann Nixon Cooper, a woman born in 1902, when women could not vote and African American access to the polls was severely limited.How jarring and incongruous to now find many states stepping back in time to an era when so many Americans were disenfranchised. We must not let them succeed.
09.13.12	09.13.12 Rep. Schiff Honors Neil Armstrong's Legacy on House Floor Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor the life and legacy of Neil Armstrong – the first man to walk on the moon. Neil Armstrong’s public memorial was held in National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. earlier today. Schiff’s speech is below: “Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of a true American hero, the first human being to walk on the moon, Neil Alden Armstrong."I had the privilege of meeting Neil Armstrong, and introducing my son Eli to him at an event commemorating the 40th Anniversary of the Apollo 11 landing.“It has been said that ‘we’re all dreamers,’ but Neil Armstrong inspired generations of Americans to dream big and reach for the stars, both literally and figuratively. He believed that the yearning to explore is part of what makes us human and his singular achievement on July 20, 1969 still inspires.“A reluctant hero, Mr. Armstrong never used his Apollo 11 achievement for personal gain. On more than one occasion he questioned his own notoriety, protesting that his walk on the moon was the result of the dedication of more than four hundred thousand people from engineers who designed the Lunar Module to ground controllers who monitored every aspect of the mission, to seamstresses, who stitched by hand the suit that kept him alive on the moon.“The late 1960’s was a time of tumult in America, when our nation was riven by Vietnam, the struggle for civil rights and the emerging women’s movement. In the midst of this, Armstrong’s climb down the lunar module’s ladder and his “giant leap for mankind” united not just Americans, but people of all nations as they watched.“That night countless children looked up at the moon and dared to dream.”
09.13.12	09.13.12 Rep. Schiff Honors Neil Armstrong's Legacy on House Floor Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor the life and legacy of Neil Armstrong – the first man to walk on the moon. Neil Armstrong’s public memorial was held in National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. earlier today. Schiff’s speech is below: “Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of a true American hero, the first human being to walk on the moon, Neil Alden Armstrong."I had the privilege of meeting Neil Armstrong, and introducing my son Eli to him at an event commemorating the 40th Anniversary of the Apollo 11 landing.“It has been said that ‘we’re all dreamers,’ but Neil Armstrong inspired generations of Americans to dream big and reach for the stars, both literally and figuratively. He believed that the yearning to explore is part of what makes us human and his singular achievement on July 20, 1969 still inspires.“A reluctant hero, Mr. Armstrong never used his Apollo 11 achievement for personal gain. On more than one occasion he questioned his own notoriety, protesting that his walk on the moon was the result of the dedication of more than four hundred thousand people from engineers who designed the Lunar Module to ground controllers who monitored every aspect of the mission, to seamstresses, who stitched by hand the suit that kept him alive on the moon.“The late 1960’s was a time of tumult in America, when our nation was riven by Vietnam, the struggle for civil rights and the emerging women’s movement. In the midst of this, Armstrong’s climb down the lunar module’s ladder and his “giant leap for mankind” united not just Americans, but people of all nations as they watched.“That night countless children looked up at the moon and dared to dream.”
09.13.12	09.13.12 Rep. Schiff Honors Neil Armstrong's Legacy on House Floor Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor the life and legacy of Neil Armstrong – the first man to walk on the moon. Neil Armstrong’s public memorial was held in National Cathedral in Washington, D.C. earlier today. Schiff’s speech is below: “Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of a true American hero, the first human being to walk on the moon, Neil Alden Armstrong."I had the privilege of meeting Neil Armstrong, and introducing my son Eli to him at an event commemorating the 40th Anniversary of the Apollo 11 landing.“It has been said that ‘we’re all dreamers,’ but Neil Armstrong inspired generations of Americans to dream big and reach for the stars, both literally and figuratively. He believed that the yearning to explore is part of what makes us human and his singular achievement on July 20, 1969 still inspires.“A reluctant hero, Mr. Armstrong never used his Apollo 11 achievement for personal gain. On more than one occasion he questioned his own notoriety, protesting that his walk on the moon was the result of the dedication of more than four hundred thousand people from engineers who designed the Lunar Module to ground controllers who monitored every aspect of the mission, to seamstresses, who stitched by hand the suit that kept him alive on the moon.“The late 1960’s was a time of tumult in America, when our nation was riven by Vietnam, the struggle for civil rights and the emerging women’s movement. In the midst of this, Armstrong’s climb down the lunar module’s ladder and his “giant leap for mankind” united not just Americans, but people of all nations as they watched.“That night countless children looked up at the moon and dared to dream.”
09.12.12	09.12.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on Attack Against US Diplomat in Libya Washington, DC – After the attack on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya this morning, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, issued the following statement:“I was deeply saddened and disturbed to learn of the attack on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya that claimed the lives of Ambassador Christopher Stephens and three other Americans. Ambassador Stephens was a well-known figure in Libya, and was deeply involved in helping the Libyan people in their transition from the Qaddafi dictatorship.“I have had the privilege of meeting many of our diplomats and USAID professionals overseas and I have always been struck by their dedication and their willingness to take risks in pursuit of a better world. They are America’s first line of defense and today’s loss should serve as a reminder to all Americans of the risks that our diplomats and foreign assistance officers encounter every day.”
09.11.12	09.11.12 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on September 11 Anniversary Washington, DC – Today, after participating in a Remembrance Ceremony on the steps of the Capitol, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) issued the following statement on the anniversary of September 11th:“Today, we remember those lost eleven years ago on September 11, 2001. We also remember the extraordinary acts of bravery and heroism performed by courageous passengers and crew on United Flight 93, by the first responders who rushed into burning buildings, and by the thousands of nameless volunteers who provided assistance on that terrible day.“We think, too, of our troops around the world who stand in harm’s way, many of whom enlisted in the days and weeks that followed the attack on our country. And of those troops we have lost, and who paid the ultimate price for our liberty.“For millions of Americans, September 11th serves a day of solemn reflection. For others, it has become a day of community -– gathering together in remembrance and in service. No matter how we choose to remember, ours is a tribute that is a deeply personal one.“We lost a great deal on that tragic day, but America also revealed herself to be resilient, and more unified and determined than ever.###
08.16.12	08.16.12 Schiff, Feinstein, McKeon: Forest Service Will Start Nighttime Fire Fighting Washington, DC —Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA), Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Representative Buck McKeon today (R-CA) today announced the United States Forest Service will immediately begin the training and retrofitting of helicopters necessary to use helicopters at night to fight wildfires in Southern California. Previously, the Forest Service restricted aerial firefighting operations to daylight hours only.In August 2009, the destructive Station Fire escaped efforts to contain it on the first night of the fire. A 2011 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) indicated that the use of night-flying aircraft may have allowed the Forest Service to suppress the Station Fire on the critical first night. The Station Fire ultimately grew to become the largest fire in Los Angeles County history, burning more than 160,000 acres, destroying 89 homes and taking the lives of two fire firefighters in and around the Angeles National Forest (ANF).“The Forest Service's decision to allow night flights is a welcome announcement. We will never know with certainty if night flying could have extinguished the Station Fire in those critical first hours, but I’m glad we will have a better chance in the future,” said Rep. Schiff. "With temperatures hitting triple digits this summer, it's hard for California residents not to worry that another fire could sweep through and devastate our region once again. This step today by the Forest Service is long overdue, but will provide an important new line of defense against fire for our neighborhoods."“This is a long overdue, but a welcome policy change by the Forest Service,” said Senator Feinstein. “With the hot, dry conditions in California, wildfires are increasingly dangerous and difficult to contain. Attacking fires from the air at night can bolster firefighting efforts because temperatures are cooler, humidity is higher and Santa Ana winds die down. This new policy will allow the Forest Service to now use its aviation assets around the clock as they heroically battle to save lives and property in California.”Representative McKeon said: “Each year wildfires threaten our homes, businesses, families and livelihoods. It is gravely important that we learn from past fires to make the changes necessary to help our firefighters in the future. We appreciate the efforts to address changes to policy that are needed to save lives. Allowing nighttime flights will help firefighters better do their jobs and fight these dangerous fires. We are pleased to see that the Forest Service has taken the GAO recommendations seriously and have begun to implement these much needed changes.”Representative Schiff has long pushed the Forest Service to allow nighttime firefighting operations, if it could be done safely. After the release of the GAO report last year, Rep. Schiff wrote the Forest Service to urge it to complete its report on the agency’s night-flying operations. More recently, Rep. Schiff secured the inclusion of language in the report to the Interior Appropriations bill that once again called on the Forest Service to complete its night-flying study. Additionally, in separate letters to the Forest Service immediately after the Station Fire, both Senator Feinstein and Representative Schiff urged the Forest Service to update its firefighting tactics to allow for nighttime operations—provided flights could be conducted safely. The Forest Service is not the only firefighting agency in California to determine that nighttime aerial firefighting is cost-effective and can be done safely. Fire departments in San Diego, Los Angeles, Santa Barbara and Kern Counties already have effective nighttime aerial firefighting programs in place.
08.06.12	08.06.12 Rep. Schiff Cheers Curiosity Landing at JPL Tonight, Renews Call to Fully Fund Mars Program Pasadena, CA – Tonight, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the Mars Science Laboratory (MSL), known as Curiosity, successfully touched down on Mars and began its extraordinary mission:"The landing of Curiosity is a remarkable engineering achievement and the culmination of nearly a decade of work by thousands of people here and around the world. In the coming weeks and months, Curiosity will answer many of the vital questions about Mars’ past and whether it ever had conditions suitable for life. But tonight we celebrate the genius of humankind.“This success must reinvigorate our efforts to restore funding for planetary science and future Mars missions. While we have restored some of the funding –- almost $100 million so far –- much work remains to return the Mars Program to health. Without the certainty of future missions and support, we will find it impossible to maintain the most specialized workforce on earth –- the brilliant engineers and scientists who made this mission possible.”
07.31.12	07.31.12 Rep. Schiff Supports Extending Bush Tax Cuts for Middle Class Families Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) joined his colleagues in calling on the House to extend the Bush-era tax cuts for the overwhelming majority of Americans and small businesses. This week, he co-sponsored H.R. 15 which would extend tax cuts for all Americans on income up to $250,000, an identical measure to the one that passed the Senate last week, and released the following statement: “There is strong bipartisan agreement that the Bush-era tax cuts should be extended for income up to $250,000. Although there is disagreement beyond that point, it is important to recognize that even very wealthy families would receive a tax cut under this proposal on the first $250,000 of their income. The bill passed by the Senate, and introduced in the House earlier this week in the House, would also ensure that 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses continue to receive these tax cuts.“Under this proposal, even millionaires would receive tax cuts of over $10,000. But in this time of deficit and debt, we simply cannot afford to provide additional tax cuts to income above $250,000. Doing so would add almost $1 trillion to the deficit over 10 years, at a time when we can least afford it.”
07.25.12	07.25.12 Rep. Schiff Selects Burbank Residents Greg and Leah Switzer as 2012 Angels in Adoption Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) announced he has selected Greg and Leah Switzer to be this year’s recipients of the 29th Congressional District “Angels in Adoption” award, an annual award sponsored by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI). Greg and Leah Switzer were nominated by the Boys & Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley, and selected by Schiff.“Greg and Leah have demonstrated such great compassion throughout the foster care and adoption process, and their love for Peter, Alex and Elizabeth make them an ideal choice for recognition as true Angels in Adoption,” said Schiff. “By adopting a young sibling trio, they mended a broken family and created a new one – exactly what we hope for in our foster system. We are very fortunate to have their shining example as wonderful parents who have opened their hearts and home to three wonderful children.”When Greg and Leah Switzer were married in 2000, they were both in their late forties. After about three years of marriage, they had the desire and compassion in their hearts to adopt and determined that their home and lifestyle would be perfect for only two children. On September 29, 2007, they attended an adoption fair in Altadena, California and met a young sibling trio of brothers, Peter and Alex, and sister, Elizabeth, they wanted to adopt. The children had been living in various foster homes for six years, but it was not until they joined the Switzer family that they found a stable, loving home and parents.In addition to being a large sibling group, the children had special needs which the Switzer family worked together to overcome. Peter, now 15, is an honors student and active in the Boys & Girls Club of Burbank and Greater East Valley, and Elizabeth, 13 and Alex, 11 are involved in the youth group at Magnolia Park United Methodist Church in Burbank, California. All three children enjoy volunteering and giving back to the community.Greg, a public school teacher, believes that “adoption is such a necessity and the facts and statistics of orphans are just staggering.” Leah, a public relations consultant, has also been a huge advocate of adoption and continues to encourage and educate about its importance through frequent public speaking appearances.The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption Program is CCAI’s signature public awareness program that provides all Members of Congress with the opportunity to honor the good work of their constituents, who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans. In September, each Angel is invited to attend various Angels in Adoption events in Washington, D.C., including the Pin Ceremony House and Reception and Gala, where all of the chosen Angels from across the country will be honored.Rep. Schiff is a Member of the Congressional Adoption Caucus and welcomes nominations for next year’s “Angels in Adoption” award. For information on how to submit a nomination for next year’s award please contact Congressman Schiff’s district office at 626-304-2727.###
07.24.12	07.24.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on Aurora Shooting Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor, today released the following statement after the shooting in Aurora last week:"I was deeply saddened by the tragic and senseless shooting at an Aurora, Colorado movie theater. Our priority must be aiding and comforting the victims and their families. I also believe we should take this moment to examine our laws and determine how we can prevent horrendous acts like this one in the future. We will never be able to stop all senseless acts of violence – there will always be those, who, for reasons unfathomable to us all, decide to take the lives of innocent people around them. But there are some common sense steps we can take to make these types of shootings more rare and less destructive."First, my colleague Senator Feinstein led the charge almost twenty years ago to pass the Assault Weapons Ban, but it has since been allowed to expire. It is past time to put that law, which would have outlawed the type of gun used by the shooter, back in place. Second, we should pass the Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act sponsored by Congresswoman McCarthy, which would prohibit the sale of ammunition magazines that can hold more than ten rounds at a time. The ability to fire 30 or even 100 shots without reloading increases the destructive capacity of shooters while serving no legitimate purpose. Third, we must also examine legislation to close the gun show loopholes and crack down on straw purchasing, both of which help divert guns out of legal channels and into black markets where they are easily obtained by criminals and the mentally ill."I realize, of course, these steps will not stop all mass killings, or even all mass shootings. As the Governor of Colorado pointed out, if this killer didn't have access to the weapons and ammunition he used, he might have built a bomb instead. But it is also true that we do not need to make such killing easy, and I do not believe that anything in the Second Amendment, or any desire to hunt or for self-protection requires ready access to assault weapons with extended ammunition clips."
07.11.12	07.11.12 Rep. Schiff Honors Montrose Search and Rescue on House Floor Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honored the members of Montrose Search and Rescue for their life-saving work during a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. In recent weeks, the team has received wide recognition of their heroism for saving a drowning girl in the Angeles National Forest. Schiff’s speech is below:“Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the Montrose Search and Rescue team. “For over sixty-five years, Montrose Search and Rescue has been conducting life-saving operations throughout the Angeles National Forest and neighboring areas. These brave men and women have risked their own lives time and time again to rescue stranded hikers, victims of natural disasters, and anyone in need of assistance.“Two weeks ago, their heroism was on full display. The team spotted a little girl face down, drowning in a pool of running water in the Forest. The 18-month-old girl was unconscious and had stopped breathing when they pulled her out of the water. Thanks to them, this little girl was brought back to life to the unimaginable relief and gratitude of her family.“That young girl, along with so many others, is alive today because of the heroic actions of the Montrose Search and Rescue team. And they do all of this for their community without asking anything in return.“Their humbling dedication to service and truly selfless desire to help those in need deserve our respect and gratitude."So today, I rise to say thank you, Montrose Search and Rescue, for the great work that you do and for the lives that you save through your efforts.”
07.02.12	07.02.12 Reps. Schiff, Chu and Napolitano Hold Press Conference Denouncing Postal Consolidation Decision to Close Mack Robinson and the City of Industry's Processing & Distribution Centers Pasadena CA – Today, Representatives Adam Schiff (CA-29), Judy Chu (CA-32), and Grace Napolitano (CA-38) held a press conference at Pasadena City Hall to urge U.S. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe to reconsider his decision to close Pasadena’s Mack Robinson Processing and Distribution Center (P&DC) and the City of Industry P&DC. The three Congressional leaders were joined by Pasadena Mayor Bill Bogaard, local leaders of the National Association for Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), union representatives from American Postal Workers Union (APWU) and the Letter Carriers Union, as well as postal employees and local business owners who will be adversely impacted by the closings. The three Congressional leaders released the following statements:Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29): “Today, we joined together with postal workers and community leaders to express our deep disappointment with the USPS’s short-sighted decision to close the mail sorting facilities at Mack Robinson. The closure of mail processing facilities in Los Angeles and across the county will result in the losses of thousands of good-paying jobs and impair the efficient delivery of mail. I will continue to urge the Postmaster General to refrain from this destructive course, and develop a more sensible and comprehensive solution to USPS’s poor financial health. It’s my hope that the out crying of strong community support for Mack Robinson might halt their plans.”Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32): “I am deeply troubled by the pending consolidation of the Pasadena and City of Industry mail processing facilities. Not only are the livelihoods of postal workers being turned upside down, but our small businesses and economy will be hurt by degraded mail services. I have consistently and strongly fought these mail processing center closures in our area and this is truly a sad development.”Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-38): “We have attempted for years to work with the Postal Service, meeting with their officials, requesting information, and supporting legislation that would ease their financial troubles without harming jobs or our economy. The Postal Service should hold off on closing the Pasadena and City of Industry mail processing facilities until Congress can finish its work on legislation that would save USPS billions of dollars per year. We must continue to work together until we can put the Postal Service on solid financial footing without sacrificing the local jobs and timely mail service that are critical for our economy.”U.S. Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe announced plans in May to consolidate Pasadena’s Mack Robinson Processing and Distribution Center (P&DC) and the City of Industry P&DC, jeopardizing the livelihoods of hundreds of local employees and threatening the timely delivery of mail throughout the entire region. According to the USPS plan, the Pasadena facility’s mail processing capacity will be dramatically reduced this summer through so-called “limited consolidation activity.” Chu, Schiff and Napolitano have been outspoken advocates for the preservation of both the Mack Robinson and City of Industry’s P&DCs. The two facilities service countless local businesses and act as major arteries for shipments throughout Southern California.Their most recent letter to the Postmaster General can be found below:May 31, 2012The Honorable Patrick R. DonahoePostmaster GeneralU.S. Postal Service475 L’Enfant Plaza, SWWashington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Postmaster General Donahoe,We write to again express our strong opposition to consolidating Pasadena’s Mack Robinson Processing and Distribution Center (P&DC) and the City of Industry P&DC. On May 18, 2012, you notified us that the Mack Robinson P&DC is one of 48 facilities where you will be conducting “limited consolidation activity” this summer. Your plan then calls for fully closing the Pasadena P&DC in early 2013 and later closing the Industry P&DC in a second wave of consolidations.Consolidating either of these facilities would have dramatic and dire consequences for our constituents, area businesses, and postal workers. The first step in your plan – the so-called “limited consolidation” of the Mack Robinson P&DC – is extremely troubling. Out of approximately 270 employees, you plan on sending 128 clerks and 44 mail handlers to the Los Angeles P&DC. Another 37 maintenance employees would be sent to work at a Santa Clarita installation. Removing these workers from the Mack Robinson P&DC is not a limited consolidation – it is gutting the very core of the facility and would destroy its mail processing capacity, thereby delaying mail deliveries throughout the area. We believe Congress must have an opportunity to address the Postal Service’s finances through comprehensive legislation before you move ahead with these crippling cuts. The Senate has already passed their bill, S. 1789, with bipartisan support. It would be improper for USPS to proceed with such far-reaching decisions before Congress has a chance to make necessary reforms to the Postal Service.Moreover, we do not see how the two gaining facilities in Mack Robinson’s “limited consolidation” can accommodate so many new workers, even when considering how early retirement offers may reduce the number of employees. We demand that you provide us with the current number of vacant positions that are now available in these gaining facilities and provide us with clear answers as to what will happen to these workers.The stakes are incredibly high not only for the hundreds of postal workers who will be displaced and see their livelihoods threatened, but it will harm Southern California’s economy as a whole. The communities we are privileged to represent are recovering from one of the toughest economic downturns in generations. Both the Pasadena area and the City of Industry are bustling centers of commerce and their businesses need timely and reliable mail deliveries to succeed. We are at a critical juncture with the nation’s economic recovery and moving ahead with these consolidations will make these businesses less competitive.Moreover, it is also very troubling to consider how even the “limited” consolidation of the Mack Robinson facility alone may affect our constituent’s voting rights as the general election quickly approaches. 41.6% of all California voters cast their ballots by mail in the 2008 general election, and California Secretary of State Debra Bowen has expressed her grave reservations on how mail processing facility closures may adversely affect voters. Indeed, after three USPS mail processing centers were closed in California last year, ballots sent in by mail took up to seven days to arrive at county election offices. We believe your phased-in schedule for consolidating mail processing facilities in of itself demonstrates the challenge of shutting down mail processing centers at this critical time, as you admit there will be no “consolidation activities” for mail processing centers between September 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012 because of “…heightened mail volumes predicted for the election and holiday mailing seasons…”We believe Congress must come to your aid and help right USPS finances – but moving ahead with these severe cuts now would impose far-reaching hardships on our constituents before a more reasonable solution could be found. We request a prompt reply to our concerns and to meet with you personally to discuss this situation before you proceed any further.We look forward to hearing from you.Sincerely, ###
06.29.12	06.29.12 Rep. Schiff Secures Language in Appropriations Bill Calling on Forest Service to Complete Critical Reports Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Interior Appropriations bill will include language he authored that strongly urges the Forest Service to complete two critical reports still incomplete more than three years after the tragic Station Fire in Southern California. Rep. Schiff has long called for the Forest Service to complete its report on the possibility of using helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft at night to fight forest fires. The Forest Service has initiated studies to investigate this strategy, but has consistently missed internal deadlines to deliver these reports. The language calls on the Forest Service to complete the night-flying operation studies within 90 days of enactment of the Act. Schiff secured this language during a markup of the Appropriations Committee on Thursday.“With another fire season upon us, the Forest Service’s lack of action is beyond negligence,” said Rep. Schiff. “The agency must conclude their analyses of whether and how to develop its own night-flying capability public immediately. While we’ve seen evidence that the Forest Service has to begin modernizing its approach to fighting fires, it is not clear they have gotten the message. It is my hope that the language we secured in this appropriations bill will catalyze the agency to finally move forward and produce the reports they have long-promised but never delivered.”The Forest Service is also required under the FLAME Act of 2009 to develop a cohesive wildland fire strategy. While the agency has produced some early documents in this process, it has failed to produce the third and final phase of these documents that include critical components of that strategy. The language, Rep. Schiff secured in the report language calls on the Forest Service to deliver this critical last round of documents within 180 days of enactment of the Act.Below is the text Schiff secured:TIMELY DELIVERY OF CRITICAL REPORTS.— In the wake of the tragic Station Fire in Southern California, it is necessary to ensure that the Forest Service’s firefighting policies provide the most effective initial response possible, particularly for forests close to urban areas. The Committee remains concerned that the Forest Service has not produced two critical documents in a timely fashion. The Forest Service is strongly encouraged to provide the results of the nationwide assessment of the agency’s night flying operations – both the helicopter portion and fixed-wing portion – within 90 days after enactment of this Act. The Forest Service is also strongly encouraged to release the third and final phase of the cohesive wildland fire strategy, as required by the FLAME Act, that includes critical components of that strategy – such as considering potential approaches for addressing the growing wildfire threat, estimating the costs of each approach, and identifying trade-offs – within 180 days after enactment of this Act.
06.29.12	06.29.12 Rep. Schiff Votes for Bipartisan Agreement on Keeping Student Loan Rates Low and Creating Transportation Jobs Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) released the following statement after the House voted on bipartisan legislation to prevent the doubling of student loan rates on July 1st, as well as a transportation that will create much-needed jobs throughout Los Angeles and California:“I was very pleased to see that the House today reached bipartisan agreement – so rare over the past year – on two important pieces of legislation that will keep student loan rates low and pave the way for jobs and economic growth. If Congress had failed to act on student loans today, over seven million students would have seen their student loan interest rates double. With unemployment high for recent graduates, the last thing that we need to do is compound the challenges they face in today’s tough economic environment.“The transportation bill is critical to our universal goals of creating new jobs and helping our struggling economy. This legislation will protect nearly two million construction jobs, and create a million more. In California, our economy will not come back until our construction industry does, and this bill will be a much-needed boost.“While I was pleased that we eventually reached this important consensus, I deeply regret that the final bill weakened a critical provision that would have protected local communities’ ability to decide how to invest a small pool of federal funds that fund bicycle and pedestrian projects, did not authorize the popular TIGER program that has funded innovative transportation projects and did not provide a funding source for freight movement projects.”Below are details on the bipartisan agreement on both bills:One-Year Extension of Student Loan Rate: This legislation extends the current 3.4 percent loan rate on need-based student loans through July 1, 2013. Under current law, the rate would have doubled to 6.8 percent on July 1, 2012.Transportation Bill: This agreement provides 27 months of stable funding, so that states can have the confidence they need to undertake large and complex projects that will create much needed jobs. It will also dramatically expand the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) financing program that will allow local governments with dedicated sources of revenue to accelerate the delivery of critical transportation infrastructure program through low cost loans. This will create jobs now.
06.28.12	06.28.12 Rep. Schiff on Contempt Vote: Outrageous Abuse of the Contempt Power Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former prosecutor, spoke on the House floor in opposition to the contempt resolution against Attorney General Eric Holder. In an op-ed yesterday for Politico, Schiff also defending the Attorney General writing “to say this is a tragic misuse of Congress’s power is an understatement.” “I thank the gentleman for yielding and i rise in strong opposition to these contempt resolutions. I spent six years as an assistant U.S. attorney and I have great admiration and respect for the hardworking men and women of the Department. I have great respect for our Attorney General who I think has been a superb attorney general and is a man of integrity.“I like most Americans would like to know about the facts of Fast and Furious, about the problem of guns crossing our border, the horrendous violence south of our border, but what we do today will shed no light on that. What we do today will not improve the situation in terms of gun violence that's claimed the lives of tens of thousands of -- tens of thousands of Mexican citizens and claimed the lives of Americans. What we are doing today is simply a partisan abuse of the contempt power.“Thirteen percent of the American people think highly of Congress, and to date those thirteen percent are wondering why. What we do will cause no injury to the department, but it will cause great injury to this house. The justice department, after providing 8,000 documents and extensive testimony, is now being required to turn over privileged materials.“And like all Administration before it, it has reluctantly used the executive privilege to respectfully refuse to provide materials it cannot provide. And so now here we are bringing a contempt motion against the Attorney General which our committee chairman acknowledges was not aware of Fast and Furious. They don't expect any documents to show you about Fast and Furious and yet we are going to hold this Cabinet in contempt?“That is an outrageous abuse of the contempt power. What will happen when this Congress actually needs to use the contempt power for legitimate purpose? Will anyone still recognize it? U urge the Speaker to withdraw this motion as indeed Speaker Gingrich withdrew the motion in his stay and let the parties work this out. We both know, Democrats and Republicans, how this will end. It will end months from now. Let's end this partisan exercise now.”###
06.25.12	06.25.12 Rep. Schiff Condemns Supreme Court Decision in Montana Campaign Finance Case Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court issued a summary reversal of the Montana Supreme Court’s decision to uphold a state law that prohibited corporate spending in state elections, similar to the Court’s Citizens United decision:“The Supreme Court’s decision today in American Tradition Partnership v. Bullock today – overturning Montana's corporate election spending limits – is another grave disappointment. The Supreme Court had the opportunity, as some Justices urged, to revisit its disastrous decision in Citizens United in light of the torrent of vast corporate and independent expenditures that have been unleashed since that decision.“Instead, the Court doubled down on its flawed decision. Regrettably, this makes a Constitutional Amendment – such as the one I introduced last week – all the more necessary. The tremendous amount of unregulated and often anonymous spending now flooding our elections is the most significant threat to the health of our democracy in decades.”Schiff’s amendment, drafted by Constitutional Scholar Laurence H. Tribe, provides simply:"Nothing in this Constitution shall be construed to forbid Congress or the states from imposing content-neutral limitations on private campaign contributions or independent political campaign expenditures. Nor shall this Constitution prevent Congress or the states from enacting systems of public campaign financing, including those designed to restrict the influence of private wealth by offsetting campaign spending or independent expenditures with increased public funding.”
06.20.12	06.20.12 Rep. Schiff Condemns Vote Against Attorney General Eric Holder Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a former federal prosecutor, issued the following statement after the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee voted to hold the Attorney General in contempt:"The Committee has taken the deeply ill-considered step of voting to hold the Attorney General in contempt. Given the Attorney General's willingness to provide a wide range of documents not generally made available to Congress – such as internal deliberations over communicating with a co-equal branch of government – it is hard to escape the conclusion that the Committee is more interested in a fight with the Attorney General than getting the information it seeks."The use of Congress’s contempt power should be jealously guarded and only used with the most scrupulous care, otherwise it becomes nothing more than a rhetorical tool of partisan warfare and a paper tiger. I urge the House Leadership to step back from this needless and destructive process, and join the Attorney General at the negotiating table so this issue can be resolved in a timely way. The Fast and Furious investigation, which had its origin in a legitimate need to get to the bottom of a botched ‘gun walking’ operation has lost its way, and is now accomplishing nothing but doing damage to the institution of Congress."
06.18.12	06.18.12 Rep. Schiff Introduces Constitutional Amendment to Permit Content Neutral Regulation of Campaign Spending Washington, DC – Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-Burbank) today introduced a constitutional amendment to overturn the Supreme Court's ill-considered opinion in Citizen's United, and other Supreme Court precedent which have made it impossible to regulate the billions in campaign spending unleashed over the last two decades. The amendment also overturns a Supreme Court decision – Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett – striking down an Arizona law which allowed public financing of a candidate if their opponent exceeded certain spending limits.In introducing the amendment – drafted by Constitutional Scholar Laurence H. Tribe – Schiff said the following: "The growth of the Super PACs is just the most recent and disastrous result of a series of Supreme Court decisions that seek to distinguish between contributions to a candidate and direct expenditures that have the same effect. I have always been loath to amend the constitution, but this tragic line of reasoning by the Supreme Court has so threatened the health of our democracy that I am moved to introduce today's amendment."The amendment provides simply: "Nothing in this Constitution shall be construed to forbid Congress or the states from imposing content-neutral limitations on private campaign contributions or independent political campaign expenditures. Nor shall this Constitution prevent Congress or the states from enacting systems of public campaign financing, including those designed to restrict the influence of private wealth by offsetting campaign spending or independent expenditures with increased public funding."Congressman Schiff is no stranger to campaign finance reform. Elected in 2000, after the most expensive race for the House in history at the time, he became a cosponsor of the bipartisan McCain Feingold campaign finance reform law on his first day in Congress. Citizen's United helped overturn critical parts of that and other campaign finance laws.Lawrence Tribe H. Tribe is the Carl M. Loeb University Professor and Professor of Constitutional Law at Harvard Law School. Representative Schiff served as one of his research assistants while a student at the law school in the mid-1980s.
06.11.12	06.11.12 Rep. Schiff Statement of LGBT Pride Month Washington, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement today in honor of LGBT Pride Month, which is observed each year during the month of June:"The tide is turning in favor of equality and this year’s LGBT Pride Month is punctuated by many important changes. The growing support for marriage equality is significant and I welcome President Obama’s recent declaration in support of access to the right of marriage for all Americans. I’m encouraged by the recent ruling by the federal circuit court that the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional, and the ninth circuit’s decision not to revisit its ruling against California’s Proposition 8. I stand in solidarity with the many LGBT Americans serving our country in celebrating the end of the military’s discriminatory ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ policy. The drum beat for equality is getting louder and stronger.“Even as we celebrate these critical milestones, it is important to be mindful that we are not there yet. While there are a growing number of states where same sex couples can express their commitment for each other through marriage, these states are the exception rather than the rule. Full marriage equality would extend one of our most basic rights of citizenship to all Americans – that is, the right to marry the person you love.“I have friends, family members, colleagues, and members of my own staff that simply want to have that commitment recognized by their government. I respect that, I honor that, and I stand with them in their fight to have their relationships legitimized in the same way as my own marriage to Eve.“This month I join countless others in marking June as LGBT Pride Month. Gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender Americans have contributed significantly to the fabric of our nation, and it is fitting that we celebrate those contributions and stand with them in their fight for full and total equality.”Schiff is a member of the House LGBT Equality Caucus, a strong supporter of marriage equality, a co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act to repeal DOMA, and advocated to put an end to "Don't Ask, Don't Tell."
06.05.12	06.05.12 Rep. Schiff Announces Appointments to U.S. Service Academies Burbank, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that five students from the 29th Congressional District have received appointments to U.S. service academies for the class of 2016. Four of the five United States service academies require a Congressional nomination in order to receive an appointment.The following students received appointments:• Peter Thomas Goodwin, a resident of Alhambra attending St. Monica Academy, to the Naval Academy• Nathan William Hamming, a resident of Burbank attending Polytechnic School, to the Military Academy at West Point• Jason William Hoist, a resident of Alhambra attending Southlands Christian School, to the Air Force Academy• Jennifer Irene Jimenez, a resident of Pasadena and a graduate of San Marino High School, to the Merchant Marine Academy• Victoria Denise Pearson, a resident of Pasadena attending Harvard-Westlake School, to the Military Academy at West Point"Each one of the students appointed to a service academy this year has compiled an outstanding resume of accomplishments and demonstrated excellence in academics and extracurricular activities,” said Schiff. “They are also deeply committed to serving our country and will be the leaders of the future for our armed forces. I’m sure that each one of these gifted students will make our community and our country incredibly proud.”Peter Thomas Goodwin, an Alhambra resident attending St. Monica Academy, has been appointed to the Naval Academy. Peter is an accomplished student, achieving First Honors every year, serving as an elected official in Student Council and achieving Magna Cum Laude on the National Latin Examination. Throughout his time in high school, Peter has been incredibly active in sports, playing on the varsity baseball, basketball, football and cross country teams, and was selected as the co-captain of the varsity basketball team. He also volunteers at his parish, St. Andrew as a receptionist and Altar Server.Nathan William Hamming, a Burbank resident attending Polytechnic School, has been appointed to the Military Academy at West Point. While attending Polytechnic School, Nathan has demonstrated his academic achievement, being awarded the AP Scholar award and being awarded honor roll in 10th and 11th grades. Nathan has also played on the varsity football team and serving as its captain his senior year. He has been given a number of prestigious awards, including 1st Team All-CIF, 1st Team All-Area from the Pasadena Star-News, and 1st Team All-California. Additionally, Nathan volunteers at Operation Gratitude, a non-profit organization that assembles care packages for troops overseas, and as a member of his Church group where he helps with their food bank.Jason William Hoist, an Alhambra resident attending Southlands Christian School, will be attending the Air Force Academy. Throughout his high school career, Jason has developed into a leader, serving as a cadet in the Squadron 21 Civil Air Patrol and commander of the squad’s Color Guard. He has also distinguished himself through his participation in sports and extracurricular activities, playing defender for Crown City Club Soccer and participating in the Foothill Academy of Vocal Arts’ Master’s Chorale, where he was selected as the choir chaplain. During the summer, he worked at the Lake Avenue Church Children’s Ministry program.Jennifer Irene Jimenez, a Pasadena resident who attended San Marino High School, has been appointed to the Merchant Marine Academy. Jennifer is a gifted athlete having played on her varsity softball and soccer teams and serving as captain of the softball team her senior year and in her school’s student government as Athletics Commissioner. Additionally, Jennifer participated in martial arts, volleyball and gymnastics. Throughout her high school career, Jennifer volunteered her time with the Tournament of Roses Parade and the San Marino High School Homecoming Parade, and received the Rotary Youth Leadership Award in 2010.Victoria Denise Pearson, a Pasadena resident attending Harvard-Westlake School, has been appointed to the Military Academy at West Point. During her time at Harvard-Westlake, Victoria has been incredibly active in extra-curricular activities singing with various groups on campus like the Vocal Ensemble, Madrigals and Chamber Singers, as well as writing for the school newspaper and serving as the secretary for the Black Leadership and Culture Club. Additionally, she has played on her school’s volley ball team and played for various club volleyball team. And for the past two years, Victoria has been a National Merit Scholar.The four academies requiring a Congressional nomination are the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, does not require a Congressional nomination. All five academies offer young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked, nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing them for an officer's commission in the armed forces.Students interested in applying to a Service Academy for the Class of 2017, should call Congressman Schiff’s District Office at 626-304-2727 or visit https://schiff.house.gov to obtain an application form. The application deadline is October 26, 2012.
05.31.12	05.31.12 Rep. Schiff Speaks Out On DOMA Ruling in Appropriations Committee Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) spoke during a markup of the Appropriations Committee about the recent ruling by the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and called on Congress to prohibit funding in the bill under consideration from defending the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in court. Speaker John Boehner has pledged to spend up to $1.5 million of money from the legislative branch appropriations to defend DOMA, and has spent $750,000 so far. Rep. Schiff has long encouraged repeal of DOMA and supports the Administration’s decision to decline to use U.S. Department of Justice resources to defend the law.Rep. Schiff’s transcript from the committee markup is below:“Mr. Chairman, I’d like to raise my concern about any funding in this bill being used to defend the Defense of Marriage Act in court. As the committee knows, the Speaker and others have suggested the House is prepared to spend up to $1.5 million in taxpayer money hiring an expensive outside law firm to defend a discriminatory and unconstitutional law. My understanding is that the House has already spent $750,000 from the House salaries and expenses account on this effort.“Rather than throwing good money after bad, I believe we should accept what is plainly apparent. That DOMA unconstitutionally discriminates against a particular class of Americans, and should be and will be struck down by the Courts. This Committee and this House can stand in the way of that history, or we can jointly recognize the fundamental right of every American to love, and marry whom they choose.“Just this morning, the 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Boston unanimously ruled as unconstitutional those provisions of DOMA that would deny a host of federal benefits to same-sex married couples. The court agreed with the millions of Americans who recognize the withholding of those earned benefits as wrong, because it denies gay couples the ability to make the same lasting and legal commitment as heterosexual couples.“Mr. Chairman, the United States Department of Justice no longer defends this law, the House’s own ‘Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group’ is losing the court battle, and in a time of economic duress, it’s high time to recognize the truth of the matter, and reserve those federal dollars for a worthy cause.”
05.30.12	05.30.12 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Ensure Cities Can Qualify for Federal Disaster Relief After Major Storms Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced legislation to fix the problems that Pasadena and other cities in the Southern California faced in qualifying for federal disaster relief from the devastating windstorms of November and December 2011. Currently, small and medium sized communities located in large states like California have a particularly difficult time reaching the state-wide and county-wide thresholds needed to qualify for federal disaster relief. This legislation would direct the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to take into account the ability of small and medium sized communities in large counties and in large states to recover from natural disasters.“After the windstorms last year, communities across our region were unable to access essential federal disaster relief merely because they are in a large county and state,” said Rep. Schiff. “Natural disasters strike communities indiscriminately, but federal law need not be so capricious. We need to reform the process so that small and medium sized cities in more populous states like California are not penalized when it comes to disaster aid. While it will not help the Foothills recoup money from the last storm, it will hopefully prevent that from happening to these and other communities in the future."“The December windstorms in Pasadena cost the community over $14 million in damages at a time when we could least afford it,” said Pasadena Mayor Bill Bogaard. “While we thought that we were deserving of federal disaster assistance, our level of damages did not meet current FEMA thresholds. We are pleased that this measure would make it more equitable for areas like Pasadena – small and medium-sized communities in high population states – when they are seeking vital disaster assistance in the future. We are grateful for Congressman Schiff’s efforts on these important matters and offer him our full support.”Specifically, the bill would direct FEMA to take into account more than just the county-wide per capita threshold in evaluating a governor’s request under the “localized impacts” factor in the federal regulations. FEMA would consider the damage suffered by communities with less than 25,000 people and up to 250,000 people located in counties with at least 1 million people in states with at least 5 million people, if the damage sustained by those communities is in excess of 10 percent of the communities’ General Fund or if the damage exceeds $100 per capita in those communities. In Pasadena alone, the damage was estimated to be $125 per capita.This legislation would make it easier for FEMA to award federal disaster relief under the expanded “localized impacts” criteria for a small number of communities that fail to receive federal disaster relief if they do not meet the state-wide and county-wide damage threshold levels because the calculation of these thresholds on a per capita basis punishes these communities for being located in large counties in large states. It would help make it much easier for communities, such as Pasadena and Glendale, to receive federal disaster relief if they were to suffer levels of damage similar to what our communities saw in the wake of the windstorm.
05.18.12	05.18.12 Rep. Schiff Condemns Postal Service Decision to Close Mack Robinson Post Office in Pasadena Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) issued the following statement after the United States Postal Service (USPS) announced it would move forward with a cost-cutting plan to close nearly 250 mail processing centers, including the Mack Robinson Processing and Distribution Center in Pasadena:“I was deeply disappointed to learn this afternoon that USPS is still pursing the closure of the mail sorting facility at the Mack Robinson Processing and Distribution Center within the next nine months. Closing the center would have a detrimental economic impact as it provides hundreds of good-paying local jobs and ensures the swift and timely delivery of mail throughout the San Gabriel Valley, which is necessary for local businesses to operate smoothly. Closing Mack Robinson and other facilities like it is also not necessary and does little to address the financial challenges facing the postal service.“The USPS, unlike other federal agencies, must prefund its retiree health benefits, which is responsible for approximately 80% of USPS’s operating deficit. I support legislation –- and urge Congress to include it in any postal reform bill that moves this year -– that would use previous overpayments that USPS has made to federal government retirement benefit programs to pay for the prefunding of the retiree health benefit requirement. Adoption of this legislation would mean that USPS would not have to close hundreds of mail sorting facilities across the country.”Background: The USPS announced plans to move ahead with a modified plan to consolidate its network of 461 mail processing locations in phases. The first phase of activities will result in up to 140 consolidations through February of 2013. Unless the circumstances of the Postal Service change in the interim, a second and final phase of 89 consolidations is currently scheduled to begin in February of 2014. These consolidating activities will reduce the size of the Postal Service workforce by approximately 13,000 employees after the first phase. When fully implemented in late 2014, the Postal Service expects its consolidations to lead to total workforce reduction up to 28,000 employees.
05.11.12	05.11.12 Rep. Schiff Helps Introduce Legislation to Protect Facebook Passwords from Prospective Employers Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) helped introduce the Password Protection Act Of 2012, legislation aimed at curbing the growing practice of employers requiring prospective or current employees to provide access to password-protected accounts as a condition for employment. According to news reports across the country, this is a cause of great concern especially among students set to graduate college this month. Schiff introduced the bill with eleven other co-sponsors led by Reps. Martin Heinrich (D-NM) and Ed Perlmutter (D-CO).“This common sense legislation would prevent employers from mandating that job applicants or current employees disclose confidential passwords to their social networks, like Facebook. Someone's personal page should be just that – personal,” said Schiff. “These online pages are a modern version of the diary, and people should be free to share their digital diaries or keep them completely private – as they choose. But job applicants should not be required to turn over their passwords and have their privacy violated in order to secure employment. Especially in this tough economic environment, we should be removing impediments for job seekers, not creating them.“Earlier this year, I was proud to support an amendment that would have accomplished these goals as well, but it was unfortunately voted down on the House floor. I will continue to support privacy protections like this one.”Recent news reports have highlighted a disturbing increase in the number of employers asking prospective employees to hand over usernames and passwords to their personal accounts on websites like Facebook. Some job applicants are even being asked during interviews to log into these websites and allow interviewers to browse the applicant’s profile, acquaintances, and other information. Others are being asked to provide passwords on job applications.The Password Protection Act of 2012 enhances current law to prohibit employers from compelling or coercing employees into providing access to their private accounts:• Prohibits an employer from forcing prospective or current employees to provide access to their own private account as a condition of employment.• Prohibits employers from discriminating or retaliating against a prospective or current employee because that employee refuses to provide access to a password-protected account.• The Password Protection Act only prohibits adverse employment related actions as a consequence of an employee’s failure to provide access to their own private accounts.It preserves the rights of employers to:o Permit social networking within the office on a voluntary basis. o Set policies for employer-operated computer systems.o Hold employees accountable for stealing data from their employers.o Employers that violate the Password Protection Act may face financial penalties.###
05.09.12	05.09.12 Rep. Schiff Applauds President Obama's Endorsement of Marriage Equality Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after President Barack Obama endorsed gay marriage:“Today, President Obama announced that he would support marriage equality for all Americans. The President’s strong statement is something that I am proud to support, and an issue of great significance to the country. Marriage equality extends one of our most basic rights of citizenship to all Americans – that is, the right to marry the person you love.“It’s my sincere hope that marriage equality will soon become the law of the land, and as the President indicated, we can learn a lot from the changing views of the younger generation."Members of the LGBT community serve in our armed forces, and contribute to the strength of our nation and community in every field of endeavor. They should have the right to marry, and enjoy all the benefits and responsibilities of citizenship without discrimination."Schiff was an original co-sponsor of the Respect for Marriage Act, which would require recognition of any marriage performed in any state under federal law, including that of LGBT Americans. He supports full equality for all LGBT Americans to enjoy all the rights and privileges of our nation.
04.24.12	04.24.12 Rep. Schiff Prepares Amendment to Cyber Security Bill Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the Intelligence Committee, will offer an amendment to address concerns raised by the Administration, civil liberties groups and Internet users with the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA). The House is slated to take up the bill along with a host of other cyber security bills later this week.“Throughout the cyber security debate, my priority has been addressing the gaping holes in our cyber defenses,” Schiff said. “It is important to move forward with a cyber security bill to address information sharing, but we must make sure that it includes strong protections for the civil liberties and privacy of Americans. I appreciate the good work of the Chair and Ranking Member, and will continue to work with my colleagues on the Intelligence Committee to make improvements to the bill before it comes to the floor later this week. Along these lines, I am preparing an amendment which will address many of the concerns raised over the past month. I believe that my amendment would narrowly tailor the bill to its purpose of protecting us from attacks on our cyber infrastructure and protecting trade secrets while protecting the privacy and civil liberties of ordinary Americans.”Schiff’s amendment would require the development of policies and procedures to minimize the impact of information sharing on privacy and civil liberties, specifically minimizing the collection of personally identifiable information. It would also narrowly define and tailor the purposes for which the government can use information obtained from private entities under the legislation, while including exceptions for information that directly relates to a crime or a specific national security threat.The amendment would:Adopt privacy language requiring the development of policies and procedures to minimize the impact of information sharing on privacy and civil liberties, including by minimizing the collection of publicly identifiable information as included in Senator Feinstein's draft. The procedures would have to be reviewed and approved by the U.S. Attorney General within one year of their development; Narrow the purposes for which a Federal agency may use cybersecurity information obtained under the Act. Allow for the use of cyber security information if the information discloses a specific threat to national security or is considered foreign intelligence information; and Use Lieberman/Collins/Feinstein definitions for Cybersecurity Threat, Cybersecurity Threat Information, and Cybersecurity Threat Intelligence, while also adopting a number of other definitions that are necessary to define those terms.###
04.19.12	04.19.12 Bipartisan Resolution Condemns the Killing of Journalists in Syria Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Pence (R-IN), co-chairs of the Press Freedom Caucus, introduced a resolution in the House condemning the killing of journalists in Syria and calling on the government to open the country up to independent and foreign news media and end its media blackout. In the past year, journalists from across the world have bravely provided on-the-ground reports from the region. But they are increasingly in danger from fighting and often targeted specifically by the Syrian government. Yesterday, Reporters Without Borders reported that four journalists were killed in Syria despite the recently-announced ceasefire.“Journalists put their lives on line every day to bring us news from across the globe,” said Schiff. “Any time a journalist is assaulted, it is an assault on all of us, and on the world's need for timely and accurate information. This year, journalists have made great sacrifices to bring us the truth about Bashar al Assad's devastating cruelty to his own people.“Our resolution today condemns the violence against journalists by the Syrian government, and calls on Syria to allow a free and independent press to operate within the country.”Since the start of the conflict in Syria, at least nine members of the media have been killed covering the uprising. This is the companion legislation to a resolution introduced in the Senate by Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), and comes two weeks before World Press Freedom Day, which will be held on May 3, 2012. Joining Schiff and Pence in introducing this resolution are Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA), co-chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.Information on the Caucus: The Press Freedom Caucus is a bipartisan caucus aimed at advancing press freedom around the world. The Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, co-chaired by Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Pence (R-IN), creates a forum to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world.###
04.13.12	04.13.12 Rep. Schiff Honors 2012 Women of the Year Pasadena, CA– Today, at a luncheon in Pasadena, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) honored outstanding women from each of the communities (Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena, and Temple City) in the 29th Congressional District. This recognition is made each year during Women’s History Month.Below is a full list of all the honorees this year:Joanna Vargas (Alhambra), Carolyn Ingram Seitz (Altadena), Ellen Snortland (Altadena), Nancy E. Guillen (Burbank), Debra Suh (Glendale), Diane Gin (Monterey Park), Denise Houlemard Jones (Pasadena), Eleanor K. Andrews (San Gabriel), Kay Mouradian (South Pasadena), Gretchen Robinette (South Pasadena), Eva Arrighi (Temple City)Row 1 (front): Arighi, Snortland, Jones, Guillen, Gin / Row 2 (back): Vargas, Robinette, Suh, Schiff, Andrews, Seitz, Mouradian“It was a great pleasure to meet with the 2012 ‘Women of the Year’ awardees today, and to honor their tireless work and achievements throughout our communities,” said Schiff.“Each woman honored today has demonstrated an ability to bring people together, to get things done, and to really leave their mark. They serve as role models for all of us, and especially young people throughout the 29th Congressional District, and it was my pleasure to recognize them.”Every year, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Schiff entered a special tribute to each woman into the Congressional Record, which is also below. Joanna Vargas (Alhambra) A TRIBUTE TO JOANNA VARGAS29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR-2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.Today, I pay tribute to Joanna Vargas of Alhambra, California, an accomplished woman who has brought multi-generations together and joy to the lives of many, through her extraordinary vision for the arts. Born and raised in Alhambra, Joanna is a graduate of Alhambra High School and opened her first dance studio at the age of 26.Joanna’s passion for the arts has been evident throughout her career. She is the creator of an astounding number of projects and has an exhaustive list of accomplishments. Joanna has launched various dance companies for adults and teens, created Alhambra’s Monthly Mosaic Art Walk, Jayvee Dance Center, the Annual Maxt Out Dance Competition, “Streetease Fitness and Dance” classes and instructional DVDs, and the Alhambra Hot Spot, which is home to an annual art event that celebrates music, dance, art and fashion. She is also the Chief Executive Officer of Dance for Peace Charity, a non-profit she established two years ago.In addition to her projects, it is noteworthy to mention Ms. Vargas’s unparalleled service to the community. Joanna is a Board Member of the Alhambra Chamber of Commerce, a member of the San Gabriel Chamber of Commerce, charter member of the Rotary International New Generation Club, and President of the City of Alhambra Downtown Business Association.Joanna is a charitable woman who gives back to her community through her invaluable service. She has awarded scholarships to deserving underserved teens and children, and to people who have the desire to further their dance training. I ask all Members to join me in honoring a remarkable woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Joanna Vargas, for her exceptional service to the community. Carolyn Ingram Seitz (Altadena) A TRIBUTE TO CAROLYN INGRAM SEITZ29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR-2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.Today, I pay tribute to Carolyn Ingram Seitz of Altadena, California. A zoning and planning consultant who has worked on many projects in Altadena for the last two decades, Carolyn moved to Altadena in 2000. Not long after she moved into Altadena, Ms. Seitz became involved in the community, advocating for community safety, and working with the Altadena Sheriff’s Department and community members on neighborhood nuisance and other issues. She worked with her neighbors to form a neighborhood watch, and helped other neighborhoods prepare and be organized for cataclysmic events or natural disasters. Carolyn has also assisted with organizing Community Emergency Response Team (CERT) trainings, which offer drills, trainings and refreshers throughout the year. She is the Altadena Sheriff’s Station CERT Coordinator, a member of the Regional CERT working group and sits on the Los Angeles County Operational Area Disaster Corps Volunteers Advisory Council. When the Station Fire occurred, Ms. Seitz worked tirelessly for many hours to ensure that the community had updated information on the fire, and the probable impacts caused by the rain that would result in flooding and mudflows.Carolyn was appointed as the Chairwoman of the Altadena Sheriff’s Community Advisory Committee in 2007. In 2010 she brought together the California Highway Patrol, American Red Cross, Pasadena Police Department and community members to a successful Neighborhood Watch Conference, which she organized at Loma Alta Park in Altadena. Along with her extensive volunteer work with the Altadena Sheriff’s Department, Carolyn contributes many hours to organizations such as the Quality of Life Center, Inc., Mentoring and Partnership for Youth Development, the Altadena Chamber of Commerce and the Central Altadena Little League. Recognized for her work in improving sheriff-community relations, Ms. Seitz has also been honored with the Altadena Chamber of Commerce’s Outstanding Citizen of the Year Award in 2010.I ask all Members to join me today in honoring an outstanding woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Carolyn Ingram Seitz. Ellen Snortland (Altadena) A TRIBUTE TO ELLEN SNORTLAND29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR-2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.I stand today to pay tribute to Ellen Snortland of Altadena, California, who is an inspiring and extraordinary individual. Ellen has spent her life following a variety of passions ranging from human rights to journalism to self defense. Ms. Snortland received a Bachelor of Arts from the University of California, Irvine in Theater and Film, and later a Juris Doctor (JD) from Loyola Law School, Los Angeles. After graduating, Ellen decided that she could provide the most service to her community as an advocate for women and children, a teacher, performer and media professional.Ms. Snortland is the author of Beauty Bites Beast, which has been translated in Portuguese and Spanish, featured on Dateline NBC, and sold around the world. Ellen has also performed “Now that She’s Gone,” a one-woman show, which is a touching piece about family and forgiveness, and in 2008, was nominated for a Pulitzer in Drama. She has performed this show in New York, Los Angeles, Kansas, and France among other cities, states and countries.She is currently a Board Member and lead female instructor for IMPACT personal safety, and teaches young boys and girls how to defend themselves from predators, both physically and verbally. She provides valuable services to our youth which they can draw from for their entire lives.Ellen’s accomplishments and roles in our community are innumerable. She serves on the Board of 50/50 Leadership and Consumer Watchdog, and is the Past President of the United Nations Association, Pasadena/Foothills Chapter. Ellen attended the U.N. Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995, the World Conference Against Racism in Durban, South Africa, in the year of 2001, and the U.N. Commission on the Status of Women for many years as part of the U.N. Press Corps as well as a NGO delegate.Today, Ms. Snortland is a columnist for the Pasadena Weekly and a blogger for Ms. Magazine and Huffington Post. Ellen’s work has been exceptional, and has proven that one woman can truly achieve all she sets her mind to.I ask all Members to join me today in honoring an outstanding woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Ellen Snortland, for her exceptional service to the community. Nancy E. Guillen (Burbank) A TRIBUTE TO NANCY E. GUILLEN29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR- 2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.Today, I pay tribute to Nancy E. Guillen of Burbank, California. Born in Guatemala City, Guatemala, Nancy, who is the youngest of four children, immigrated to the United States in 1968 at the age of six, and became a U.S. citizen in the early 1980’s. Upon graduating from John Marshall High School, Nancy attended Glendale Community College.Ms. Guillen is the CEO of True Integrity Insurance & Payroll Services in Burbank. Prior to this career, Nancy worked in the medical field for over two decades. Aside from being a dedicated career woman, Nancy has always found time to volunteer and contribute many hours of service to a variety of organizations, including Kid’s Community Dental Clinic, Glendale Noon Kiwanis, Family Service Agency of Burbank, The Salvation Army of Burbank, Ascencia, and Family Promise of East San Fernando Valley, where she also serves as a Board Member. Currently, Nancy is President of the Glendale Latino Association, and helps raise scholarship funds for Glendale Community College and Glendale High School students.In addition to volunteering countless hours at homeless shelters, supporting families and children, and volunteering for nonprofit organizations, Nancy is also an avid supporter of breast cancer awareness. As a breast cancer survivor herself, Nancy participates in cancer walks, is involved with the American Cancer Society, Relay for Life in Burbank and Fiesta of the Spanish Horse to help raise funds to cure cancer. Ms. Guillen’s commitment to help women who are battling breast cancer is admirable, and she always finds time to speak with them and support them in any possible way she can.Nancy has two children, Juan and Cindy, and a granddaughter, Natalia, who she says are the greatest blessings in her life.I ask all Members to join me in honoring a remarkable woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Nancy E. Guillen, for her exceptional service to the community. Debra Suh (Glendale) A TRIBUTE TO DEBRA SUH29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR-2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.I stand today to pay tribute to Debra Suh of Glendale, California, an extraordinary woman who selflessly works to strengthen our community and provide valuable resources where they are needed most. Debra worked at the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles as an attorney, where she established the Asian Pacific Islander Legal Unit, geared towards increasing the low-income immigrant community’s access to legal representation and services. Debra has continuously pushed to provide this population with opportunities and a voice that might be denied them otherwise.Since 1999, Debra has been the Executive Director of the Center for the Pacific Asian Family (CPAF) which is nationally renowned for its inspiring work to support immigrant Asian and Pacific Islander survivors of sexual and domestic violence. CPAF offers programs, which are imperative to women and children survivors, such as the 24-Hour Crisis Hotline, Transitional Shelter, Emergency Shelter, and Community Outreach programs. These provide a safe haven to people in need, and allow survivors to feel supported by their community.Debra is an accomplished leader and dedicated volunteer, and has always found time to volunteer for various vital organizations. She served on the Board of Directors of the California Partnership to End Domestic Violence, and was Board Vice President from 2008 to 2010. She is Past President of the Women’s Organization Reaching Koreans and Korean American Bar Association. Ms. Suh’s efforts have not gone unrecognized. She has been awarded the Durfee Sabbatical Award and the KCET/Union Bank Local Hero Award. Currently, Debra serves as Co-Chair of the California Emergency Management Agency’s Domestic Violence Advisory Council and is a member of the Los Angeles Emergency Food and Shelter Program Board, Blue Shield of California’s Foundation’s Strong Field Project Advisory Group, the Los Angeles County DPSS Welfare Advisory Council, and the Los Angeles City Mayor’s Nonprofit Advisory Group. In addition, Debra is a tireless volunteer at the local public schools where her two children attend; she teaches art, helps raise funds, and helps in the classroom.Debra and her husband, Robin Toma, have two children, Nina Suh-Toma and Julian Suh-Toma.I ask all Members to join me today in honoring an outstanding woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Debra Suh, for her outstanding service to our community. Diane Gin (Monterey Park) A TRIBUTE TO DIANE GIN29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR-2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.I stand today to pay tribute to Diane Gin of Monterey Park, California. Not only has Diane raised an incredible and successful extended family, she has also dedicated her life to improving the lives of the families around her. Diane grew up in Los Angeles, and attended California State University, Los Angeles, where she graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in Child Development. Since then, she has amassed an astounding thirty-five years of experience in the classroom, and is currently a 4th grade teacher in the City of South Gate at State Street Elementary School.Ms. Gin has proven herself to be a leader outside of her own classroom, exemplifying a true dedication to improving the lives of our youth. She has served as President of the Mark Keppel High School PTSA, and President of the Alhambra PTA Council for the Alhambra Unified School District, and continues to serve the PTA Council as chair of the scholarship committee, although she has no children presently attending school. In addition, Diane has served as the parent coordinator for the Orange County Dance Association.Today, Ms. Gin serves as President of the United Methodist Women at the Monterey Park Shepherd of the Hills United Methodist Church. She has chaired the Staff Parish Relations Committee and educational program, and currently teaches a Friday night youth group and Sunday school. Diane is also the Past President of the United Methodist Women of the Pasadena District, and has served on the Staff Parish Relations Committee for the District Superintendent of the Pasadena District.Diane continues to reach out to our youth, serving as a Girl Scout troop leader for 25 years, where she currently sits on the Gold Award Review Committee, which interviews applicants for the Gold Award.I ask all Members to join me today in honoring an outstanding woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Diane Gin, for her exceptional service to the community and to our nation’s children. Denise Houlemard Jones (Pasadena) A TRIBUTE TO DENISE HOULEMARD JONES29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR- 2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Every year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.Today, I pay tribute to Denise Houlemard Jones of Pasadena, California. A brilliant businesswoman with many years of experience, Denise is a Management Consultant at DMJ Consulting Services, a business she started, where she provides advisory services to companies, colleges, agencies and individuals. She received a B.A. in Sociology and Economics from the University of California, Los Angeles, and a MBA from the University of Southern California.It is noteworthy to mention Denise’s unparalleled volunteer service to the community, which includes an impressive list of accomplishments. She has been a member of the Los Angeles Chapter National Black MBA Association, National Association of Female Executives, Pasadena Talks, Points of View Committee, Women At Work Young African American Women’s Conference, Black Women’s Forum, City of Pasadena Intergroup Relations Advisory Committee, and the City’s Recreation Commission, among others. Ms. Jones has also been involved with the Community Health Alliance of Pasadena (CHAP), serving as a founding member, acting as President several times, and currently serving on the Marketing Committee. Presently, Denise is a member of the National Council of Negro Women, Saint Andrew Catholic Church, YWCA Pasadena-Foothill Valley, American Association of University Women, City of Pasadena Northwest Commission, and the Pasadena Delta Foundation, Inc., where she is a founding member.Along with being a successful career woman, Ms. Jones has devoted countless hours of her time volunteering for the Alkebu-lan Cultural Center, American Institute for Cancer Research, Foothill Unity Center Food Pantry, and the Latino History Parade and Jamaica. She is also an annual fiesta volunteer at Saint Andrew Catholic Church.Some of the honors Ms. Jones has received include the National Merit Award, the William L. Blair Award for Service and Leadership, the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Leadership Award, the YWCA Women of Excellence Award, and the Women In Action’s “Wind Beneath Wings” Award.I ask all Members to join me in honoring a remarkable woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Denise Houlemard Jones, for her outstanding service to the community. Eleanor K. Andrews (San Gabriel) A TRIBUTE TO GRETCHEN ROBINETTE29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR- 2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.Today, I pay tribute to Gretchen Robinette, a tireless volunteer, advocate, and remarkable woman of California’s 29th Congressional District. Born and raised in South Pasadena, California, Gretchen graduated from South Pasadena High School, attained a B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley, and a Master’s degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.Gretchen served in the Peace Corps as an English language teacher in Malaysian Borneo for two years, along with her husband, Vic Robinette. Ms. Robinette was a teacher and librarian throughout most of her professional career for South Pasadena High School, Rio Hondo College in Whittier, and San Luis Obispo High School. Her commitment to education is also reflected through her willingness to be involved in school issues. She assisted in bringing the South Pasadena High School Library online, contributed her time to help design the school’s library when it was constructed, and served in the Academic Senate at Rio Hondo College. Upon her retirement from teaching a decade ago, Gretchen joined her husband’s CPA firm, where she holds the position of Office Manager.Ms. Robinette has also served the community beyond the realm of education; a fact that she attributes to her years of service in the Peace Corps. She serves on the Board of Directors for the South Pasadena Preservation Foundation, chairs the South Pasadena Chamber of Commerce Legislative Affairs Committee, in addition to serving as a Chamber of Commerce Ambassador. A co-founder and former president, she currently serves as a Board Member for Women Involved in South Pasadena Political Action (WISPPA), an organization that works to improve integrity, accountability and transparency in the city government of South Pasadena. Past volunteer activities include serving on the South Pasadena Public Library’s Board of Trustees and the Board of South Pasadena Beautiful.I ask all Members to join me in honoring an outstanding woman of the 29th Congressional District, Gretchen Robinette, for her extraordinary service to the community. Kay Mouradian (South Pasadena) A TRIBUTE TO DR. KAY MOURADIAN29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR- 2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.I stand today to pay tribute to Kay Mouradian, EdD, of South Pasadena, California, who has provided the Los Angeles Community Colleges with strong leadership and dedication for many years. Attaining a B.S. from Boston University, an M.S. from University of California, Los Angeles, and an Ed.D. from Nova Southeastern University, Dr. Mouradian served the Los Angeles Community Colleges as Professor of Health and Physical Education, and advocated in the California Teachers Association for the importance of physical education in California Community Colleges. In addition to her love of education and advocacy for health, Dr. Mouradian is also a very accomplished author.Dr. Mouradian researched yoga in India for several months for her dissertation. She has published articles about yoga for magazines, with two much admired articles titled: Increasing Body Awareness through Yoga’s Relaxation Technique andDeveloping a Competency-based Syllabus in Yoga for the Community College Curriculum. Kay’s efforts did not stop there, as she also published a guide for yoga instructors who taught at the community colleges. In addition, Dr. Mouradian is planning to write books tailored to help people who want to and are interested in retaining a quality body, primarily during their elder years.After several health crises, Kay’s mother asked her to write about her life. This opened a new chapter for Kay. Kay extensively researched the Armenian Genocide of 1915 by reading numerous books and traveling to Turkey. There, she visited the town where 25,000 Armenians, including her mother and her family, were ordered to leave their homes at the time of the Armenian Genocide. She journeyed through the deportation path, where over 2,000,000 Turkish Armenians had to march for countless miles through the desert. Her findings and experience led her to write A GIFT IN THE SUNLIGHT, An Armenian Story.I ask all Members to join me in honoring a remarkable woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Dr. Kay Mouradian, for her exceptional service to the community. Gretchen Robinette (South Pasadena) A TRIBUTE TO GRETCHEN ROBINETTE29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR- 2012 I rise today in honor of Women’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.Today, I pay tribute to Gretchen Robinette, a tireless volunteer, advocate, and remarkable woman of California’s 29th Congressional District. Born and raised in South Pasadena, California, Gretchen graduated from South Pasadena High School, attained a B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley, and a Master’s degree from the University of California, Los Angeles.Gretchen served in the Peace Corps as an English language teacher in Malaysian Borneo for two years, along with her husband, Vic Robinette. Ms. Robinette was a teacher and librarian throughout most of her professional career for South Pasadena High School, Rio Hondo College in Whittier, and San Luis Obispo High School. Her commitment to education is also reflected through her willingness to be involved in school issues. She assisted in bringing the South Pasadena High School Library online, contributed her time to help design the school’s library when it was constructed, and served in the Academic Senate at Rio Hondo College. Upon her retirement from teaching a decade ago, Gretchen joined her husband’s CPA firm, where she holds the position of Office Manager.Ms. Robinette has also served the community beyond the realm of education; a fact that she attributes to her years of service in the Peace Corps. She serves on the Board of Directors for the South Pasadena Preservation Foundation, chairs the South Pasadena Chamber of Commerce Legislative Affairs Committee, in addition to serving as a Chamber of Commerce Ambassador. A co-founder and former president, she currently serves as a Board Member for Women Involved in South Pasadena Political Action (WISPPA), an organization that works to improve integrity, accountability and transparency in the city government of South Pasadena. Past volunteer activities include serving on the South Pasadena Public Library’s Board of Trustees and the Board of South Pasadena Beautiful.I ask all Members to join me in honoring an outstanding woman of the 29th Congressional District, Gretchen Robinette, for her extraordinary service to the community. Eva Arrighi (Temple City) A TRIBUTE TO EVA ARRIGHI29th CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WOMAN OF THE YEAR- 2012 I rise today in honor of Woman’s History Month. Each year during the month of March, we pay special tribute to the accomplishments made by our nation’s most distinguished women.Today, I stand to laud the tireless efforts of Eva Arrighi, a twenty-two year resident of Temple City, California, whose zealous approach to community service has benefited many people and organizations. Born in Cologne, Germany in 1931, Eva arrived in the United States in 1955 along with her husband Ivo, son Dan, and daughter Frances. After residing in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, Cleveland, Ohio, and Rosemead, California, respectively, Eva and her family moved to Temple City.Throughout the years, Eva has maintained an active spirit for all her passions in life, and is involved with the community as a member of many organizations as a dedicated volunteer. Ms. Arrighi has been a volunteer and member of the Boy Scouts of America, particularly with Troop 169 Temple City, where her grandson achieved the rank of Eagle Scout. Eva volunteers for church activities at St. Peter’s in Los Angeles, St. Anthony Catholic Church in San Gabriel, and St. Luke Catholic Church in Temple City, where she always lends a helping hand to assist at the St. Luke’s Fiesta. The School of Fashion & Design in Alhambra has also benefited from Eva’s devotion, as she contributes many hours working with physically and developmentally challenged students. Currently, Ms. Arrighi is an Ambassador for the Temple City Chamber of Commerce, where she assists in decorating for Chamber activities and provides food items and gifts for the Chamber’s social mixers. She is also a member of organizations such as the Temple City Women’s Club, Friends of Foster Children and the Historical Society of Temple City.Ms. Arrighi is known for her generosity. She spends many hours knitting and crocheting countless items and selflessly gives everything away as gifts. Some of her creations include scarves, hats, baby blankets, slippers and socks. She donates to various fundraisers, community raffles, Chamber employees, Methodist Hospital Foundation and the School of Fashion & Design, to name a few.I ask all Members to join me in honoring an extraordinary woman of California’s 29th Congressional District, Eva Arrighi, for her exceptional service to the community. ###
04.13.12	04.13.12 Statement from Congressman Adam Schiff on the Shooting of Kendrec McDade Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) issued the following statement:"I want to join Mayor Bogaard, Councilman Holden and other members of the community in expressing my condolences to the family of Kendrec McDade after the loss of their son. There have been many serious questions raised by the shooting, and four investigations have been launched to determine precisely what took place and to provide answers to the family and the community. I join my colleagues in urging these investigations to be thorough and impartial, and to proceed with the greatest sense of urgency."I know the community hungers for answers, and as a parent, I cannot imagine the grief of the McDade family. They will be in our thoughts and prayers as the investigations go forward, and as we learn how this tragedy took place and what steps can be taken to avoid another terrible loss like it in the future."###
04.12.12	04.12.12 Rep. Schiff Condemns North Korean Missile Launch Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a senior Member of the House Intelligence Committee, released the following statement after North Korea launched a missile yesterday:“North Korea's missile launch, despite its failure, is a serious breach of UN Security Council resolutions and a threat to international security. The international community must close ranks in acting on this latest provocation, and pressing Pyongyang not to proceed with a possible third nuclear test.“North Korea's leadership has to understand that unless the country meets its international obligations, it can only expect further isolation. At a time of widespread hunger in North Korea, it is doubly tragic that the new regime would continue disastrous and costly missile and nuclear programs when those resources could be used to feed their own people.”###
04.04.12	04.04.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on Windstorm Disaster Reports from Southern California Edison and Independent Auditor Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after reports were released by the Davies Group and Southern California Edison (SCE) on the response to the windstorm of November 2011:"I am pleased that SCE has responded proactively to the problems identified in its response to the recent Windstorm by releasing both an internal report and a report from an outside firm. Both reports identify areas where SCE's response should be improved for future. Most importantly, the reports call for an improved damage assessment method that will integrate information and produce more accurate final power restoration times. It will also be essential for power companies to better apprise consumers as those restoration times change, and better monitor their poles for potential overloading problems.“The November windstorm was an unplanned drill for a more serious natural disaster in the future, and we can learn from the problems we encountered. There are many improvements to make, and all utilities can take the lessons of the Windstorm response to heart by implementing the lessons learned.”The windstorm which hit the Los Angeles area on November 30 knocked out power to more than 400,000 homes and businesses and did tens of millions of dollars in damage to cities in the San Gabriel valley. Power restoration proved time-consuming and difficult, with thousands still without power almost a week after the storm hit. Schiff previously hosted a roundtable discussion with federal, state and local officials, representatives from local utilities, FEMA, the CPUC and others focusing on the windstorm and how our region can be better prepared for a future emergency.The Southern California Edison and Davies Group reports can be found here.###
04.03.12	04.03.12 Rep. Schiff Announces Annual Art Contest with Online Voting Pasadena, CA– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he will host the annual Congressional Arts Competition Forum & Exhibit for the 29th District, featuring high school student artwork from the region, on Sunday April 15. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual contest, with submissions from across the country. The winner from each Congressional District has their work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. In addition, Schiff is opening up the competition with a “People’s Choice” award, which will be decided through an online vote.“Every year, I receive amazing art from high school students across the 29th Congressional District, and this year, I decided to do something different. Now, students, their families and other constituents from across our district will be able to weigh in, just like the panel of judges and pick the inaugural ‘People’s Choice’ winner,” said Schiff.“I look forward to finding out the winners, and to welcoming artists and their families at the exhibition.”The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nationwide competition.The first place winner’s artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, the piece awarded second place will hang in the Congressman's Washington, D.C. office for one year, and the piece awarded third place will hang in his Pasadena District Office for one year. The “People’s Choice” winner’s artwork will also be displayed in Schiff’s Washington, D.C. office. To vote for the “People’s Choice,” constituents should go to Schiff’s website, (https://schiff.house.gov/congressional-arts-competition1). Voting will be open from April 2nd through April 12th.The winners of the contest will be announced at the 29th Congressional High School Arts Competition Forum & Exhibit on Sunday April 15. All student participants will receive a Congressional Certificate of Recognition. The exhibit will be held at Friends Hall at the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens starting at 3:00 p.m.; the award presentation will take place at 5:00 p.m. In addition, the exhibit will feature music from the Los Angeles Children’s Orchestra, under the direction of Susan Pascale. To RSVP, please contact Rep. Schiff’s District office at (626) 304-2727.###
03.29.12	03.29.12 Rep. Schiff: Continued Delay By Forest Service After Station Fire Is Unacceptable Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) again called on the Forest Service to end the interminable delay in their assessment of the agency’s night-flying operations. The helicopter portion of the report was supposed to be completed by August 2011, but the Forest Service missed that deadline. Since then, the Forest Service has missed another internal deadline to complete the report by the end of 2011. That assessment is now more than six months overdue.“As we enter yet another fire season, the Forest Service's delay poses additional risks to communities adjacent to the forest. The Forest Service should make public their analyses of whether and how to develop its own night-flying capability,” said Rep. Schiff. “The GAO report showed that the Forest Service has to begin modernizing its approach to fighting fires, including considering the use of night-flying aircraft. I hope that the agency releases the report they have long-promised so we can quickly move forward.”Schiff has also requested language be included in the FY 2013 Interior Appropriations bill that would instruct the Forest Service to complete both portions of the study within 90 days of enactment of the bill:“In the wake of the tragic Station Fire in Southern California, it is necessary to ensure that the Forest Service’s firefighting policies provide the most effective initial attack possible, particularly for forests close to urban areas.“The Committee remains concerned that Forest Service has not produced two critical documents in a timely fashion. The Forest service must provide the results of the nationwide assessment of the agency’s night flying operations – both the helicopter portion and fixed-wing portion – within 90 days of enactment of this bill.”The Station Fire hit Southern California in August 2009, devastating 250 square miles, killing two firefighters and destroying many homes. Rep. Schiff has worked with local fire agencies, the U.S. Forest Service and many others to learn from what went wrong in the effort to extinguish the fire and implement changes to make sure those mistakes are not repeated.
03.14.12	03.14.12 Rep. Schiff To EPA: Stop Wasting Time and Complete Chromium 6 Study Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa P. Jackson expressing his disappointment with the EPA’s decision to delay the completion of their Chromium 6 toxicology assessment and urging EPA to complete the assessment in a timely fashion. In 2010, the EPA released its draft Chromium 6 study which found that it was likely carcinogenic and a danger to human health when ingested. However, the EPA recently announced that it would take that draft ingestion study – already behind schedule – and combine it with an ongoing inhalation assessment. Without immediate action by the EPA, local water agencies will not take the steps necessary to protect millions of Americans from the harmful effects of Chromium 6.“The National Toxicology Program study, which I requested almost a decade ago, established that Chromium 6 is hazardous, harmful and carcinogenic, and the government has yet to take action,” said Schiff. “With this harmful substance found in tap water of communities across the nation, it’s imperative that the EPA act quickly to protect the public health and complete this risk assessment. “The EPA must stop wasting time and release their final analysis of Chromium 6 in drinking water. Any further delay is unconscionable.” In 2001, Rep. Schiff spearheaded an effort to commission the study by the National Institutes of Health’s National Toxicology Program. The study found that high doses of Chromium 6 in drinking water cause cancer in lab rodents. The link between Chromium 6 and cancer garnered national attention after the release of the movie “Erin Brockovich” in 2000. Congressman Schiff has long worked to keep Chromium 6 out of drinking water, dating back to his work in the California State Senate. As a State Senator, he sponsored a bill requiring the California Department of Health Services to prepare a report on the amount of Chromium 6 in the San Fernando Valley aquifer and the danger it poses to residents. Additionally, Rep. Schiff has secured more than a million and a half dollars to develop technology capable of removing heavy metals such as Chromium 6 from drinking water in Glendale.This month, Schiff called on California Department of Public Health’s (CDPH) Director Ron Chapman to move quickly to establish a Maximum Containment Level (MCL) for Chromium 6. Before treatment, underground water from some local Los Angeles County wells contains between 45 and 70 parts per billion of Chromium 6. It was also recently announced that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency planned to install 30 wells in the Glendale-Burbank area this month to monitor levels of Chromium 6 in underground water.The letter Schiff sent to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson is below:Lisa P. Jackson Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, 1101A Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Jackson, As you know, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recently announced a new schedule for completing its Hexavalent Chromium, or Chromium 6, toxicology assessment. I am deeply disappointed by the EPA’s decision to effectively restart the assessment process at the very time it was to have concluded. A decade ago, I requested a National Toxicology Program study to determine whether Chromium 6 can cause cancer when ingested through drinking water. The conclusion of that study -- considered the gold standard in the scientific community -- was that Chromium 6 was indeed carcinogenic. The EPA’s September 2010 draft Chromium 6 toxicology assessment of when the compound is ingested proposed classifying Chromium 6 as likely to cause cancer in humans when ingested over a lifetime. It is clear that Chromium 6 is dangerous to human health when ingested through drinking water. However, in February of this year, EPA announced that it was combining the ongoing ingestion and inhalation assessments into a single assessment. The final assessment is not expected to be completed until the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2015, three years later than the original ingested assessment was supposed to be completed. This means that it will be at least another three years before the EPA will determine on the basis of the final assessment if drinking water standards need to be updated, as required under the Safe Drinking Water Act, to better protect Americans from this harmful compound. Given that this issue impacts the safety of drinking water, that kind of delay is unconscionable. It also does not make any sense to combine the ongoing assessments. There is no reason to delay the finalization of the ingestion assessment by tying it to the inhalation assessment when a 1998 EPA study already concluded that Chromium 6 is a known human carcinogen via inhalation. I am sure that the updated inhalation assessment will produce significant human health benefits, but in making the release of the final ingestion assessment contingent on the final inhalation assessment it ensures that local water agencies in the interim will not be required to take steps to most effectively protect millions of Americans from this carcinogenic compound. I strongly urge the EPA to move as quickly and responsibly as possible to complete the assessment process for Chromium 6 for ingestion through drinking water, so that Americans can be confident that their drinking water is safe to consume.I look forward to hearing from the EPA about what steps the agency is taking to complete the assessment process in a timely fashion.Sincerely,Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress
03.09.12	03.09.12 Rep. Schiff Applauds Decision to Reject NASA Request to Divert Mars Funds Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a member of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee, applauded the decision of Subcommittee Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA) to reject a fiscal 2012 reprogramming request that would have shifted funds away from the Mars program, including a pair of joint missions with the European Space Agency (ESA). The request, which came from NASA, would have begun the process of shutting down its cooperative Mars-exploration effort with the ESA, which is primarily housed at JPL. While this decision does not stave off possible future cuts, it enables Congress to properly and thoroughly debate the President’s 2013 budget proposal.“I want to thank Chairman Wolf for rejecting this reprogramming request by NASA,” said Schiff.“NASA’s effort to mothball the Mars program is a disaster for America's leadership in planetary science, and I'm glad this first step has been rejected by the committee. Thanks to the brilliant scientists at JPL, we have the unique capability to design, fly and land sophisticated robotic spacecraft on our planetary neighbor, and this is not a talent pool NASA should abandon."“I will continue to work to defeat these ill-considered cuts and restore the Mars budget. While today’s decision by Chairman Wolf is enormously positive, we still have a lot of work to do to put the Mars program back on track.”Specifically, NASA had requested to discontinue work on the joint 2016 and 2018 Mars missions being explored with the European Space Agency (ESA) and allocate a reduced amount to the study of a potential new future Mars mission. This request came on the heels of the unilateral decision by NASA to withdraw from the discussions with the ESA aimed at bringing the Russian Federal Space Agency (RFSA) into the cooperative effort. According to reports, as a result of NASA’s decision, the ESA and RFSA have since drafted a bilateral exploration plan.Rep. Frank Wolf sent a letter last week to Administrator Charles Bolden outlining his opposition to NASA’s reprogramming proposal until it could be properly debated. Schiff previously met with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden to express his dismay over the proposed cuts, and questioned the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy during a hearing of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
03.08.12	03.08.12 Rep. Schiff Introduces Legislation to Strengthen Penalties for Straw Purchases of Firearms Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Straw Purchaser Penalty Enhancement Act, which would create a new two-year sentence for certain “straw purchasers” of firearms. Straw purchasers in the United States are responsible for many of the illegal firearm transfers to the Mexican drug cartels. The limited federal penalties have provided prosecutors with little leverage in their efforts to tackle cartel violence. Schiff’s legislation would provide prosecutors with a new tool to go after the ringleaders of drug cartels and the gun smugglers that arm them.“In my time as a federal prosecutor, I learned that one of the most important weapons in our arsenal was the ability to roll up lower-level defendants to get at those most responsible for gun violence,” said Schiff. “Current federal law, however, does not give prosecutors sufficient leverage against straw purchasers who are providing guns to drug cartels and gangs. Drug and gun violence has reached a dangerous level along the border and in Mexico. We know that the guns that drug cartels use to kill civilians and law enforcement officers are largely purchased in the United States. Yet we hamstring law enforcement by not giving them the tools they need to dismantle gun trafficking organizations. Straw purchasing is not a ‘paperwork’ violation – it’s a serious crime that has resulted in the deaths of thousands. My legislation would ensure we treat it as the threat to public safety that it is while helping to crack down on traffickers.” Specifically, Schiff’s legislation would create a new two year penalty for a straw purchaser who intentionally deceives a gun dealer about the true identity of the gun’s purchaser. The sentence would be in addition to the penalty under existing law. The bill also requires that gun purchasers be notified when they buy a gun that lying about the true purchaser of a gun is a serious offense.The Straw Purchaser Penalty Enhancement Act comes on the heels of the Congressional hearings into the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) sting operations dubbed “Fast and Furious.” In 2010, a federal operation allowed weapons from the United States to pass into the hands of suspected gun smugglers and cartel members so they could be traced to the ringleaders of Mexican drug cartels. During that operation, the ATF lost track of hundreds of weapons which have been linked to violent crimes both in the United States and Mexico, including the shooting of Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry in December 2010. During the hearings, Schiff raised concerns with the politicization of the investigation and encouraged legislators to turn their attention to the steady stream of guns pouring over our border.During the “Fast and Furious” hearings, ATF agents testifying before the House Oversight Committee were not allowed to testify on how week U.S. gun laws were making it difficult for them to catch those smuggling assault weapons to drug cartels. As noted in one of their testimonies, the agents felt that the laws to prosecute these straw purchasers was “toothless.” Video from the hearing can be found here in which ATF Special Agent Peter Forcelli stated that “for somebody to testify against members of a cartel where the alternative is seeing a probation officer once a month, they will opt towards not cooperating with the law enforcement authorities.” This legislation would address their concerns. Groups from across the ideological spectrum have called for enhanced laws to prosecute gun trafficking, including Mayors Against Illegal Guns and the National Shooting Sports Foundation.
03.05.12	03.05.12 Rep. Schiff Urges California Department of Public Health to Move Quickly to Establish Limits for Chromium 6 in Drinking Water and Condemns Delays Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to California Department of Public Health’s (CDPH) Director Ron Chapman urging the department to move quickly to establish a Maximum Containment Level (MCL) for Chromium 6. Before treatment, underground water from some local wells contains between 45 and 70 parts per billion of Chromium 6. It was recently announced that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency planned to install 30 wells in the Glendale-Burbank area this month to monitor levels of Chromium 6 in underground water.“The National Toxicology Program established that Chromium 6 is hazardous, harmful and carcinogenic,” said Rep. Schiff. “And while we already know that high levels of Chromium 6 can cause cancer, the state has dragged its feet in setting a standard to protect our drinking water and health. The standard should have been set years ago, and it’s time for them to finally finish the job.”In the letter, Schiff stated: “Given that this issue impacts the safety of drinking water, that kind of delay is unconscionable. We have been concerned for over a decade that Chromium 6 could cause cancer and we have known now for five years that it does in fact cause cancer when ingested through drinking water, yet there still is no statewide standard that will protect millions of Californians from this harmful compound. I strongly urge CDPH to move as quickly and responsibly as possible to establish a MCL for Chromium 6 for drinking water that takes into account the views of the multiple participants in the statewide drinking water system – experts, consumers, water districts and others – so that Californians can be assured that their drinking water is safe to consume.”In 2001, Rep. Schiff spearheaded an effort to commission the study by the National Institutes of Health’s National Toxicology Program. The two year study found that high doses of Chromium 6 in drinking water cause cancer in lab rodents. The link between Chromium 6 and cancer garnered national attention after the release of the movie “Erin Brockovich” in 2000. Congressman Schiff has long worked to keep Chromium 6 out of drinking water, dating back to his work in the California State Senate.As a State Senator, he sponsored a bill requiring the California Department of Health Services to prepare a report on the amount of Chromium 6 in the San Fernando Valley aquifer and the danger it poses to residents. Additionally, Rep. Schiff has secured more than a million and a half dollars to develop technology capable of removing heavy metals such as Chromium 6 from drinking water in Glendale. The full letter to the CDPH is below: March 5 , 2012Dr. Ron ChapmanDirectorCalifornia Department of Public Health1615 Capitol Avenue, MS 0500Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Director Chapman,As you know, in 2001 concerns that Hexavalent Chromium, or Chromium 6, has carcinogenic properties when ingested by humans led the California legislature to pass and Governor Davis to sign legislation requiring the establishment of a Maximum Containment Level (MCL) for Chromium 6 in drinking water by January 1, 2004.And a decade ago I requested a National Toxicology Program study to determine whether Chromium 6 can cause cancer when ingested through drinking water. The conclusion of that study -- considered the gold standard in the scientific community -- was that Chromium 6 was indeed carcinogenic. Nonetheless, an MCL still has not been established even though the deadline for setting an MCL for Chromium 6 passed over eight years ago.At the same time that I requested the NTP study, I also worked with the City of Glendale to help fund a new technology to remove Hexavalent Chromium from the water. That multi-year pilot is ongoing and promising new technologies have been developed. The Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment released multiple draft Public Health Goals (PHG) on a safe level of Chromium 6 in drinking water before finally releasing a final PHG in July 2011. The final PHG recommended a maximum level of 0.02 parts per billion for Chromium 6 in drinking water and allowed the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) to begin work on setting an MCL.I understand that CDPH must consider several factors in establishing a MCL, including the PHG, the technical feasibility of setting a MCL and the economic impact of a MCL, and I am aware this can often take a significant period of time, sometimes as long as two to four years. However, even if CDPH was able to set a MCL within two years of completion of the PHG it would be nearly 10 years after the initial deadline to establish a MCL.Given that this issue impacts the safety of drinking water, that kind of delay is unconscionable. We have been concerned for over a decade that Chromium 6 could cause cancer and we have known now for five years that it does in fact cause cancer when ingested through drinking water, yet there still is no statewide standard that will protect millions of Californians from this harmful compound.I strongly urge CDPH to move as quickly and responsibly as possible to establish a MCL for Chromium 6 for drinking water that takes into account the views of the multiple participants in the statewide drinking water system – experts, consumers, water districts and others – so that Californians can be assured that their drinking water is safe to consume. I look forward to hearing from CDPH about what steps the agency is taking to set a MCL in a timely fashion.Sincerely, Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress
02.24.12	02.24.12 Rep. Schiff Hosts Town Hall at JPL Pasadena, CA– Yesterday, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) hosted a town hall for Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) employees in the Theodore von Kármán Auditorium to discuss his concerns with the recent cuts to the NASA Budget, and particularly the Mars program, and to hear the views of JPL employees. After the President announced the cuts, Schiff vowed to fight them “tooth and nail” in the Congress.“I am always inspired by meeting with the brilliant people at JPL,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “It makes me even more determined to keep the incredible team of scientists and engineers at JPL together, and to preserve American leadership in space exploration. Even as we await Curiosity’s landing on Mars in August, we need a concrete plan in place to use their immense talents to further our knowledge of our planetary neighbors.”“Congressman Schiff has been a tireless advocate for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and I look forward to continuing my work with him,” said JPL Director Administrator Charles Elachi. “His support for the Mars program and increased funding for planetary science are vital as we work to ensure that the United States remains the leader in space exploration.”The President recently released his budget, which included $226 million in cuts to NASA’s Mars exploration program, and total proposed cuts to NASA's planetary science operations total $309 million -- about 20 percent of what the program received in the 2012 budget. As a result, JPL could see several hundred employees lose their jobs. Schiff hosted this town hall to talk directly with JPL employees who would potentially be affected by the cuts.
02.23.12	02.23.12 Rep. Adam Schiff Statement on 9th Circuit Decision Striking Down California Law on Armenian Genocide-Era Insurance Claims Pasadena, CA - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the 9th Circuit ruled in the Movsesian v.Versicherung case, effectively barring Armenian-Americans from seeking the return of stolen Armenian Genocide-era insurance assets through U.S. courts, under California law:"I am deeply disappointed and mystified by this decision and cannot see how the 9th Circuit could have reached such a flawed legal conclusion. I will be studying the decision in the coming days and will be working with my friends in the Armenian-American community to determine next steps."I was proud to submit an amicus brief on behalf of genocide victims and their families, and I am more than willing to do so again with the United States Supreme Court."
02.22.12	02.22.12 Statement of Rep. Adam Schiff on the Deaths of Two Journalists in Syria Washington, D.C.– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), co-chair of the Press Freedom Caucus, released the following statement after two journalists, Marie Colvin of the Sunday Times of London and photographer Rémi Ochlik, were killed during an attack by the Syrian Army on a rebel stronghold:“As the Syrian government continues its horrendous campaign of violence against its own people, journalists are increasingly caught in the cross hairs. Now the Syrian government can add two more courageous members of the press to its carnage – Marie Colvin and Rémi Ochlik. We join the international community in calling on the Damascus government to stop the violence. And we grieve over the loss of Marie and Remi. Our thoughts and prayers go out to their families and the families of all who have been lost to the violence.”The New York Times reported that the two journalists had been working in a makeshift media center during the assault, “raising suspicions that Syrian security forces might have identified its location by tracing satellite signals.” According to the media freedom group Reporters Without Borders, seven members of the press have been killed in Syria as a result of their work since the start of the uprising. The Syrian government rarely grants visas for reporters to come into the country, and if they do, attempt to control their reporting. Because of these restrictions, it’s been difficult for reporters to observe the revolt in Syria, and reporters are running extreme risks in order to report on the uprising.Information on the Caucus:The Press Freedom Caucus is a bipartisan caucus aimed at advancing press freedom around the world. The Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, co-chaired by Reps. Adam Schiff and Mike Pence, creates a forum to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world.
02.17.12	02.17.12 Rep. Schiff Applauds Passage of Payroll Tax Cut Extension for Middle Class Families Washington, D.C.– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Burbank) issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives approved a payroll tax cut extension through 2012 by a vote of 293-132, extended unemployment compensation, and prevented a cut to physician reimbursements under Medicare: “While our economy is making definite progress, we still have a long way to go. We can’t afford to damage the fragile recovery when millions of Americans are still out of work, and millions more are struggling to stay afloat. I voted today to provide economic certainty for middle class families through an extension of the payroll tax cut. This tax cut will put almost a thousand dollars a year back into the pockets of middle class families in the form of a larger paycheck every month. Additionally, this legislation will extend unemployment for those still struggling to find work, and avoid a sudden and enormous Medicare fee cut for doctors who treat seniors. We must preserve seniors’ access to the best care, and we need to find a permanent fix for this yearly problem. “However, I am disappointed that the package is paid for again, in part, on the backs of middle class workers who happen to be federal employees. Time and time again, we pay for much-needed legislation by targeting federal workers – many of whom are also struggling to get by. We should not be extending tax cuts for America's most wealthy while cutting the compensation for working families."
02.17.12	02.17.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on Passing of New York Times Correspondent Anthony Shadid Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Member of House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and Co-Founder of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, released the following statement about the passing of New York Times Correspondent Anthony Shadid while reporting from Syria: “As a foreign correspondent for many different papers over the years, Anthony Shadid informed our world view, gave us insights no other journalist could, and bore witness to history being made in the Middle East. We learned of world events from his dispatches from the other side of the globe – from the fall of Sadaam Hussein, to the Arab Spring, and most recently the turmoil rankling Syria and Libya. There were always other stories, but his were the gold standard. “But what I admired most about Anthony Shadid was his persistence, even in the face of mortal peril. He exemplified what a free press should strive to be. During his assignments in the Middle East, Anthony was shot, harassed, hounded, arrested and abused. But those acts of violence could not deter him, and he continued to report on the events shaping our world. “Jill Abramson, the Executive Director of the New York Times, put it best – ‘his empathy for its citizens' struggles and his deep understanding of their culture and history set his writing apart…he was their poet and their champion.’ Anthony’s intrepid spirit and story-telling ability is irreplaceable, and will live on. My heart goes out to his wife, son and daughter, and parents.”###
02.09.12	02.09.12 Rep. Schiff Statement on Meeting with NASA Administrator Washington, D.C.– Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement this afternoon following his meeting with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden to discuss the agency’s 2013 budget proposal, which will be released on February 13, 2012:“Today I met with NASA Administrator Charles Bolden to express my dismay over widespread reports that NASA’s latest budget proposes to dramatically reduce the planetary science program, and with it, ground breaking missions to Mars and outer planetary bodies like Jupiter’s icy moon Europa, and to inform him of my vehement opposition to such a move. "America’s unique expertise in designing and flying deep-space missions is a priceless national asset and the Mars program, one of our nation’s scientific crown jewels, has been a spectacular success that has pushed the boundaries of human understanding and technological innovation, while also boosting American prestige worldwide and driving our children to pursue science and engineering degrees in college."As I told the Administrator during our meeting, I oppose these ill-considered cuts and I will do everything in my power to restore the Mars budget and to ensure American leadership in space exploration.”
02.02.12	02.02.12 Schiff Statement on Attorney General Eric Holder's Sixth Congressional Testimony on "Gun Walking" Investigation Thursday, February 02, 2012Contact: Jeff Lowenstein, (202) 225-4176Schiff Statement on Attorney General Eric Holder’s Sixth Congressional Testimony on “Gun Walking” InvestigationWashington, D.C.– Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement reacting to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing with Attorney General Eric Holder:“What began as a legitimate investigation into the tragically flawed strategy begun under the last Administration of walking guns, has now degenerated into a pointless rehashing of the same ground already covered, the same questions already asked, and the same politically motivated attacks already made on the Attorney General,” said Schiff. “The one sound decision made in holding today's hearing was to have it on Groundhog Day, an irony that one could appreciate more if the hearing weren't such a lamentable waste of time. When the current Majority decides to focus on constructive ways to crack down on gun trafficking and stem the tide of violence on our border and in Mexico, it will find that there is a great deal that can be accomplished.”-30-
01.06.12	01.06.12 Media Advisory: Schiff to Host Windstorm Response Assessment Panel Schiff to Host Windstorm Response Assessment PanelPasadena, CA – Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) will host a roundtable discussion with federal, state and local officials, representatives from local utilities, FEMA, the CPUC and others at the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, at 9 a.m. Thursday, Jan. 12, focusing on the response to last month’s windstorm and how our region can be better prepared for a future emergency. The panel will also examine efforts to assist those whose homes and businesses were damaged in the storm.The windstorm which hit the Los Angeles area on November 30 knocked out power to more than 340,000 homes and businesses and did tens of millions of dollars in damage to cities in the San Gabriel valley. Power restoration proved time-consuming and difficult, with thousands still without power almost a week after the storm hit. The panel will discuss what lessons can be applied in the event of a more serious natural disaster, like a large earthquake, that would disrupt power on a wider scale and may be coupled with other challenges like fire and collapsed buildings.“We should look at this windstorm as if it were a massive, unplanned and unrehearsed drill for a more serious disaster,” Rep. Schiff said. “I know how hard utilities and their crews worked to turn the lights back on. But problems in communicating with residents and the prolonged period in which many lacked power, exposed potential gaps in our preparedness -- gaps that should be filled in case we have to confront an even more severe event in the future.”Schiff convened a similar effort after the 2009 Station Fire, which culminated in major policy reviews by the U.S. Forest Service. Those reviews are ongoing.The public is encouraged to attend.WHO: Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29)Members of the Panel:Congressman Adam B. SchiffMayor Bill Bogaard, PasadenaMayor Tom Chavez, Temple CityTown Council Member Mike Claessens, Crescenta ValleyTown Council Member Dr. Sandra Thomas, AltadenaCity of South Pasadena representativeCity of San Gabriel representativeSpeakers:Phyllis Currie, General Manager, Pasadena Water & PowerGlenn Steiger, General Manager, Glendale Water & PowerRandy Howard, Director of Power System Planning and Development, Los Angeles Department of Water & PowerRon Litzinger, President, Southern California EdisonDenise Tyrell, Southern California RepresentativeRay Fugere, Consumer Protection and Safety Division, California Public Utilities CommissionPat Dennen, Southern Regional Administrator, California Emergency Management AgencyFederal Emergency Management AgencyKevin Wynne, Public Information Officer, Office of Disaster Assistance, U.S. Small Business AdministrationVictor Parker, District Director, Los Angeles, U.S. Small Business AdministrationWHAT: Roundtable discussion with federal, state and local officials, representatives from local utilities and others focusing on the response to last month’s windstorm and how our region can be better prepared for a future emergency. WHERE: Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals Courtroom 3 - 125 S. Grand Ave, Pasadena 91103WHEN: Thursday, January 12 - 9 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. PST
12.16.11	12.16.11 Cutting-Edge Energy Research Funds for ARPA-E Included in Omnibus Appropriations Bill Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that $275 million is included in the House-passed Omnibus Appropriations bill for cutting-edge research through the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). The original House budget had proposed to radically curtail the program, cutting this path-breaking research investment by up to 82 percent. Rep. Schiff offered an amendment to the FY2012 Energy and Water Appropriations bill on the House Floor to restore the funding, which was approved on July 14 on a razor-thin 214 to 213 bipartisan vote. The Conference Committee adopted the higher level of funding in today's bill, which will now go to the Senate where it is expected to pass on quickly for President Barack Obama's signature later today.“With unrest in the Middle East and increasing demand for energy in China, we need all of the revolutionary energy ideas we can get, which is why this program is so vital to our economic future and national security,” Rep. Schiff said. “This program brings in some of the brightest people in the country into the Department of Energy for two or three years to help pioneer America's energy innovation and future."The measure was supported by Caltech, MIT, the University of California and more than 50 leading universities, as well as the CEO's of many of America's leading companies. As a result of its adoption, the ARPA-E will not be cut by 82 percent, which would have made it impossible to replace scientists leaving at the end of their term and hamstringing the agency.Other DOE energy research programs focus on maturing technologies that can be deployed soon, and don’t have the vital collaborations with industry and academia that are present at ARPA-E. ARPA-E is modeled after the highly successful Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), which has produced famously successful inventions for the Department of Defense, and the nation, perhaps most notably the Internet. A key element of both agencies is that managers are limited to fixed terms, so that new blood continuously revitalizes the research portfolio.-30-
12.16.11	12.16.11 Schiff Urges Forest Service to Conclude Long-Delayed Analysis of Night Flights, Identify Needed Assets, and Develop a Plan to Double Crew Aircraft Washington, DC- Today, following the release of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on the response to the August 2009 Station Fire, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) wrote to USDA Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell, urging the Forest Service to complete an ongoing assessment of the agency’s night-flying operations as soon as possible; identify needed firefighting assets and develop a cohesive strategy to fight fires; and develop a plan for double-crewing of firefighting tankers.“I have been eagerly anticipating this GAO report, which evaluates whether the Forest Service actions in response to the Station Fire were taken in the most efficacious way possible,” Rep. Schiff said. “This review helps us to better understand the events surrounding the initial response to the fire, and sets out important steps that the Forest Service should take to improve outcomes in the future – steps that are long overdue.”The report, “Station Fire: Forest Service’s Response Offers Potential Lessons for Future Wildland Management,” which was requested by Rep. Schiff and several other Members of Congress, highlights the need for the Forest Service to modernize its approach to firefighting and evaluating forest fires. The report acknowledges that the use of night-flying aircraft may have allowed the Forest Service to suppress the Station Fire before it escaped efforts to contain it, although no definitive conclusion was possible. The Forest Service began a nationwide assessment of the agency’s night-flying operations almost two years ago -- that assessment has still not been concluded.Please find the full text of Rep. Schiff’s letter below:“Dear Chief Tidwell, “As you know, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has recently released its report, which I and several other Members of Congress requested, on the response to the Station Fire that burned more than 160,000 acres, destroyed 89 homes and took the lives of two fire firefighters in and around the Angeles National Forest (ANF) in Southern California in August 2009. The report, “Station Fire: Forest Service’s Response Offers Potential Lessons for Future Wildland Management,” highlights the need for the Forest Service to modernize its approach to firefighting and evaluating forest fires. “The report acknowledges that the use of night-flying aircraft may have allowed the Forest Service to suppress the Station Fire before it escaped efforts to contain it. The Forest Service began a nationwide assessment of the agency’s night-flying operations almost two years ago. The report is to study various aspects of nighttime helicopter use, including risk and effectiveness and whether the Forest Service should develop its own night-flying capability use. The study was originally supposed to be completed by August 2011, and now the Forest Service has indicated that it will be “completed later in 2011.” I urge the Forest Service to complete that report as soon as possible and publicly release it, so that the public can determine if the development of the Forest Service’s own night-flying capability is a safe, efficient and effective use of taxpayer dollars to fight forest fires. “The Station Fire also demonstrates the importance of having systematic methods of identifying needed firefighting assets. The GAO, for over a decade, has recommended that the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior develop a cohesive wildland fire strategy that identifies potential long-term options for responding to fires. In 2009, Congress required the agencies to produce a cohesive strategy consistent with GAO’s recommendation. I am pleased that the Forest Service and the Interior Department are in the process of developing the cohesive strategy and have already released some documents pertaining to that strategy. But I am concerned that key elements that the GAO recommended be included in the cohesive strategy – such as considering potential approaches for addressing the growing wildfire threat, estimating the costs of each approach, and identifying trade-offs – have not been included in the early work on developing a cohesive strategy. I urge the Forest Service and the Interior Department to update the already released documents, where appropriate, to include the GAO’s recommendations and to incorporate the GAO’s recommendations in future documents that are expected to be released.“The Station Fire’s intensity and speed of spread also underscores the importance of having effective fire behavior models available to incident command officials who make decisions about how to fight fires. The effectiveness of the Forest Service’s primary tools for predicting fire activity were limited under certain conditions, particularly the plume-dominated conditions during the critical early days of the Station Fire. The report reveals that the Forest Service is “taking steps to improve the information used to predict weather conditions…and that it is exploring how to better model fire behavior.” I welcome these actions and believe they are long overdue, but I ask that Forest Service indicate in writing what specific steps it is taking to better model fire behavior and what it intends to do with this information once it has been assembled. “The report also mentions that the Forest Service does not require its contractors to double-crew its firefighting tankers, which would allow them to operate from sunrise to sunset because one crew would be able to operate during the hours in which the other crew is on its mandatory rest period. If the tankers had been able to operate from sunrise to sunset, tankers would have been able to start fighting the fire at 7 am on the first full day of the fire, August 27th, as was requested over the previous night and might have been able to contain the fire more effectively. “However, the report also indicates that the Forest Service believes that double-crewing the tankers would jeopardize safety because of the age and maintenance requirements of the aircrafts. While it might be expensive to double-crew the tankers in terms of maintenance upkeep and personnel costs, in comparison to the cost of the extensive damaged suffered by Southern California residents due to the Station Fire, I believe that such a step would be cost effective. I strongly urge the Forest Service to consider implementing double-crewing of firefighting tankers and that the Forest Service develop a plan to do so. “Firefighters and agency officials told the GAO that the Station Fire brought to light the importance of maintaining defensible space around structures in high risk area. Some of the houses in Big Tujunga Canyon could have been better protected if the legally required 100 feet of defensible space around homes and other valuable infrastructure had been implemented. In particular, residents whose properties were located closer than 100 feet to the boundary of ANF or who leased property from the Forest Service were not allowed to create 100 feet of defensible space around their homes. I commend the Forest Service’s Pacific Southwest Region decision, after the Station Fire, to direct forest supervisors to increase the minimum requirement for defensible space around structures within and adjacent to national forests from 30 feet to 100 feet and I welcome the ANF’s decision to evaluate the effects of allowing private landowners to create up to 100 feet of defensible space on national forest land. “Lastly, the Station Fire made clear the potential risks in not having an agreed upon plan of action between the Forest Service and Los Angeles County to protect critical communication equipment and other infrastructure atop Mt. Wilson. Instead of doing work to more effectively protect it that should have been done before the fire approached Mt. Wilson, some of that work was done during the Station Fire on Mt. Wilson. The report says that “after the Station Fire, the Forest Service and Los Angeles County have recognized the importance of resolving this issue and the Forest Service has taken action to better prepare Mt. Wilson to withstand future wildland fires.” What exactly have the Forest Service and Los Angeles County done to resolve this issue? “I appreciate your consideration of my requests and I look forward to working with the Forest Service to improve the Forest Service’s firefighting efforts.” -30-
12.15.11	12.15.11 Reps. Schiff, Bass Introduce INVEST Act to Encourage Investment and Employment Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Charles Bass (R-NH) introduced the INVEST Act to strengthen our economic competitiveness by fostering an enhanced environment for start-ups. Specifically, the legislation would make it easier for foreign students who have graduated from U.S. universities with degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering, Math (STEM), and other related fields, to stay in the country if they start their businesses here and create American jobs.According to research by the Kauffman Foundation, 60,000 foreign students graduate each year from a U.S. university with a STEM degree. At the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), for example, foreign students make up nearly 40 percent of the graduate student body. Due to the lack of U.S. immigration options, many of these talented individuals are being forced to return to their country of origin at the expiration of their student visas, where they then take their entrepreneurial ideas, build on them in those foreign countries, and boost those economies instead of our own, while creating competition for American companies.“As the nation continues to struggle with a sluggish economy, we must make every effort to speed-up our recovery,” Rep. Schiff said. “The loss of American-educated talent only contributes to our economic problems, and we should do all we can to retain those who hold highly-coveted STEM degrees and want to stay in the U.S., start a new business, and hire U.S. workers by encouraging them to make the U.S. their home.”“Our economic success depends on the willingness of investors and entrepreneurs to take risks with their ideas,” Rep. Bass said. “It doesn’t make sense that we inhibit this economic growth by making it difficult for highly-educated students, particularly those with science, technology, engineering, or math degrees, to remain in the country after graduation and build upon their ideas. Our legislation will encourage these highly-skilled individuals to grow their businesses right here in the United States, boosting job creation and our economy.”The American Enterprise Institute (AEI) and the Partnership for a New American Economy, a national bipartisan group of more than 400 business leaders and mayors, released a report today that shows that more foreign-born workers means more jobs for U.S. natives. As many as 262 additional native-born workers are employed for every 100 foreign-born workers putting advanced U.S. degrees to work in STEM fields.“The INVEST Act will allow highly skilled entrepreneurs the opportunity to build the next great company and to do it in America,” Reps. Bass and Schiff wrote in a Dear Colleague letter to other Members. “Our universities are educating the next generation of Steve Jobs – we want to make sure they build the next Apple in the United States and not overseas.”Under the legislation, permanent residency will be made available to immigrant entrepreneurs who are in the process of completing or have recently completed a graduate STEM degree from an accredited university in the U.S. To qualify, the immigrant entrepreneur must start a new business relevant to the area of study; create two new jobs or invest $200,000 after two years; and create five jobs or invest $500,000 in the business within five years.-30-
12.14.11	12.14.11 House Passes Resolution Urging Turkey to Restore Properties to Armenian Church Washington, DC –Late last night, the House of Representatives passed the Return of Churches Resolution (H. Res. 306), sponsored by Reps. Ed Royce, Howard Berman and Adam Schiff, calling on the Republic of Turkey to end all religious persecution and to return stolen Christian church properties. The legislation now awaits Senate action.“For more than two centuries our nation has stood for tolerance of other faiths, and the promotion of religious freedom,” Rep. Schiff said. “American diplomats, members of Congress and presidents have consistently pressed other governments to respect and protect their minorities. This resolution is in the finest tradition of advocacy for those whose voices have been silenced. I am proud to be an original cosponsor and am pleased that the House passed the Return of Churches Resolution to shine light on the unacceptable violations and intolerance of religious freedom in Turkey.”To watch Rep. Schiff’s speech about the resolution from the House Floor last night, please click here. The full text of his remarks can be found below:“From the spring of 1915 and continuing for the next eight years, the forces of the Ottoman Empire – police and military – engaged in a genocide of the Armenian people living within the borders of their dying empire. “When it was over, more than 1.5 million men, woman and children had been killed in the first genocide of the Twentieth Century. They were beaten, shot, marched to their deaths through scorching deserts or across frigid mountains and left where they fell. Families and entire communities were destroyed as the Ottomans did everything in their power to make a people disappear.“But the physical near-annihilation of the Armenian people was not enough to satisfy the Turks’ desire to wreak vengeance on Armenia, which was the first nation in the world to adopt Christianity as its official religion in AD 301. Their campaign against the Armenians was broader and was aimed at destroying not only the Armenian people, but also their history, their culture and their faith.“When Ottoman forces began to massacre their Armenian neighbors ninety-five years ago, there were nearly 2,000 Armenian churches in what is now Turkey. Fewer than 100 remain standing and fully functioning today. One of the world’s oldest Christian communities has, for the most part, disappeared from its ancestral homeland. “While the Armenian Genocide stands as a singular event, the persecution of the Armenians has continued and much of it centers on the Armenians’ status as a Christian minority in an overwhelmingly Muslim country, where discriminatory laws are used to confiscate church property and prevent free worship. And other Christian communities, especially the Greek Orthodox, have also been the victims of Turkish intolerance.“In northern Cyprus, which was invaded by the Turkish Army in 1974, churches have been left to rot, cemeteries have been desecrated or fallen into disrepair, and priests are forbidden from accessing the churches they prayed in as children.“Earlier this year the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom noted in its 2011 report: "The Turkish government continues to impose serious limitations on freedom of religion or belief, thereby threatening the continued vitality and survival of minority religious communities in Turkey." “Ours is a nation that has prized freedom of religion. For more than two centuries we have stood for tolerance of other faiths, and American diplomats, members of Congress and presidents have consistently pressed other governments to respect and protect their minorities. This resolution is in the finest tradition of advocacy for those whose voices have been silenced, and I am proud to be an original cosponsor and to join my colleagues, especially Mr. Royce and Mr. Berman, the ranking member of the Foreign Affairs committee – a friend who has been a leader on these issues throughout his years of service in the House.“I urge a “yes” vote and yield back the balance of my time.”-30-
11.30.11	11.30.11 Schiff Statement on World AIDS Day Washington, D.C.– Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement this evening marking World AIDS Day, which is tomorrow:“Nearly 30 years ago, the AIDS epidemic began to cut down thousands, later millions of otherwise healthy, mostly young people in the U.S. and across the world. “As we observe World AIDS Day, each of us should pause and remember the more than 25 million people worldwide who are estimated to have died from the disease. But even as we mourn those who have been lost, we must continue the fight against HIV/AIDS. “Today, more than 30 million people worldwide are living with HIV/AIDS, and while death rates have plummeted in the U.S. and other developed nations, the disease is still ravaging Africa, where treatment options and public awareness are more limited. “For my part, I will continue to fight to give our medical researchers, our health-care professionals here at home and our international partners overseas the resources that they need to make HIV/AIDS a distant memory.”-30-
11.21.11	11.21.11 Schiff's Familial DNA Language Passes as Part of Conference Report Washington, DC –Thursday night, just hours after the measure passed the House, the Senate approved a budget conference report which includes language drafted by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) to encourage the FBI to expand the availability of familial DNA testing to solve cold cases.“Despite the painstaking efforts of law enforcement to stop him, the Grim Sleeper roamed the streets of South Los Angeles for nearly 25 years, murdering at least 11 people,” Rep. Schiff said. “When police ultimately requested a state check of familial DNA, we were fortunate that the match occurred in California. If the Grim Sleeper’s son had been arrested and jailed in Nevada, no match would have been made and the accused killer would still be at large. The language included in the conference agreement that now awaits the President’s signature instructs the FBI to expand the availability of familial DNA testing in appropriate cases while ensuring privacy rights for Americans. Searching the national database would increase the capacity of law enforcement to solve violent crimes, taking murderers and rapists off the streets.”Specifically, the conference report language encourages the FBI to facilitate familial DNA searches of the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) database of convicted offenders, and to work with the National DNA Index System (NDIS) Procedures Board to put policies in place to allow only for investigations of serious violent and sexual crimes where other investigative leads have been exhausted. The language follows on legislation Congressman Schiff recently reintroduced known as the Utilizing DNA Technology to Solve Cold Cases Act that would put in place a national system allowing for familial DNA searches in certain restricted cases. The bill introduced by Rep. Schiff incorporated input from a variety of stakeholders on how to make a familial DNA system work effectively across state lines, and mirrors guidelines developed by the California Department of Justice in 2009.According to Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) Chief Charlie Beck, the challenge facing the LAPD in the Grim Sleeper case was the fact that it had the DNA from the suspect, but there was no match in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). After the LAPD conducted a familial DNA search of California’s DNA database and received a hit, a reverse family tree was prepared, which allowed detectives to evaluate all persons related to the Familial DNA match. The investigators began to focus on Lonnie David Franklin Jr., the father of the Familial DNA match. Franklin was placed under surveillance and investigators were able to obtain samples of his DNA. Franklin's DNA was sent to the labs, which resulted in an exact match of the "Grim Sleeper" murder suspect, allowing the LAPD to finally crack the years-old serial killer case in July 2010.“The ‘Grim Sleeper’ was a case that spanned nearly 25 years of investigation and claimed the lives of at least 11 innocent victims,” said LAPD Chief Charlie Beck. “It was not until we attempted to use Familial DNA that our investigators got the clue they needed. Familial DNA testing proved to be an invaluable tool that assisted our detectives in the apprehension of the ‘Grim Sleeper’ murder suspect, and the ability to utilize the national database would strengthen that tool even further."-30-
11.16.11	11.16.11 Schiff Urges Joint Select Committee to "Go Big" on Deficit Reduction Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) spoke on the House floor, urging the Joint Select Committee to seize the opportunity to do something big to put the nation’s finances on a long-term, solvent and sustainable path. In his remarks, he outlined a set of long-term strategies and policies to:§ Make the United States a manufacturing powerhouse again;§ Ensure that small business remains the catalyst for the American economy;§ Reorient our immigration structure to attract the best and brightest people from around the world;§ Ensure a highly skilled workforce, buttressed by a revitalized, world-class infrastructure that reduces the time and expense of getting goods to market, and fosters innovation will keep us competitive; and§ Restore the middle class dream that hard work and perseverance will give the average American the chance to live comfortably, retire with dignity and pass on greater opportunity to the next generation. Click here to watch the video Rep. Schiff’s remarksFull transcript:“Mr. Speaker, in the waning months of the Clinton Administration, Jason Seligman, a government economist, produced a memo for the White House that speculated on what the effects would be if the United States paid off its national debt by 2012, as many were predicting at the time. The memo, which was obtained by NPR under the Freedom of Information Act, was never released publicly, and the events of the intervening years have rendered it nothing more than an historical curiosity, but its mere existence is both a stark reminder of what might have been and an acknowledgment that the great majority of the current debt was built up during the last administration. “In late 2000, no one could have foreseen the 9/11 attacks or the wars that would follow. These certainly contributed to the red ink, but profligacy, poor strategic choices and political positioning are the real drivers of our burgeoning budget, which was under $6 trillion at the time President Clinton left office, but is now nearly $15 trillion. Add in a real estate bubble fueled by too-easy credit, and an economy that was no longer focused on creating and making things here in America and the challenge facing us comes into clear focus.“In one week, the bicameral Supercommittee is due to present its plan to Congress to rein in our out-of-control finances and restore the responsible stewardship of our economy that prevailed at the end of the Clinton Administration when government ran surpluses for four straight years. A mere month after the Supercommittee presents its plan, just before Christmas, we will either bless its work, or face the real prospect of painful across-the-board cuts beginning in 2013.“I have long supported a realistic approach and have urged the Supercommittee to “go big” and consider the full range of government spending in making cuts. However, I also know that we cannot put our fiscal house in order solely through spending cuts and that the government is going to have to find a way to increase the revenue flowing into the federal treasury.“While the choices we will confront in the next few weeks will be difficult, they are only the beginning of a process that must result in a new economic paradigm that will guide Congress and the administration in the coming years – when we will be forced to adjust to a much more competitive global environment, even as we work to put the economic downturn of the past three years behind us. As the current wave of pessimism surrounding the work of the Supercommittee demonstrates, this will not be an easy task, nor will it be accomplished quickly. “If we are to succeed – and success is an absolute imperative – I believe that we will need a set of long-term strategies and policies to accomplish five principles.“First, the United States is going to have to become a manufacturer again. We should be proud that many of the world’s iconic consumer products, like Apple iPhones for example, were designed and developed here, but much of the benefit to our economy is lost because these products are too often manufactured overseas. American workers are not benefitting from the manufacture of Apple’s category-leading smart-phone. We need to return to an economy where American workers are involved in the full life cycle of a product - from concept, through design and testing, and on to manufacture and market. To do that, I believe that we need to inject some certainty into our corporate tax structure, as well as creating a regulatory structure that protects workers, consumers and the environment, but not in a way that is arbitrary or capricious.“Second, we need to ensure that small business remains the catalyst for the American economy. Capitalism, by its very nature, is highly competitive and most new businesses fail. While government cannot change that central truth about a market economy, we can foster a climate that makes it easier to succeed by ensuring access to capital, targeted tax incentives, creating a supportive infrastructure and devising a regulatory framework that offers American business the best chance of success.“Third, we are in a global war for talent and we must reorient our immigration structure to attract the most promising people from around the world. It is no longer a given that a young Indian or Chinese entrepreneur will want to move to the United States if given the chance. Combined with the disquieting trend that American universities are not producing enough “home-grown” talent in Science Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (the so-called STEM disciplines) and we face a daunting challenge. In coming days, I will introduce legislation that will make it easier for foreign-born graduates in select STEM fields, to stay in this country by starting a new business here and hiring American workers.“Fourth, America cannot compete with the developing world in terms of wages, but a highly skilled workforce, buttressed by a revitalized world-class infrastructure that reduces the time and expense of getting goods to market and fosters innovation will keep us competitive. That is why I support investments in infrastructure and education that will lay the groundwork for a newly competitive America, while addressing the current unemployment problem that is acting as a drag on our economy.“Working together on these objectives can restore the middle class dream – that hard work and perseverance will give the average American the chance to live comfortably, retire with dignity and pass on greater opportunity to the next generation. “As President Clinton observed in his first inaugural address. ‘There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured by what is right with America.’“Mr. Speaker, I yield back.”-30-
11.14.11	11.14.11 President Signs Schiff Bill to Dedicate Pasadena Post Office to First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Washington, DC – President Obama has signed legislation introduced by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) into law, designating the historic U.S. Postal Service office located at 281 E. Colorado Boulevard in Pasadena as the “First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Post Office.” USPS district officials in Pasadena have been notified and are working with Rep. Schiff to plan a ceremony following the arrival of the plaque honoring Goodall, which will take about six weeks to arrive from the time it is ordered and will be displayed inside the building.“I am so pleased that President Obama has signed legislation to pay tribute to Oliver Goodall into law, and I look forward to the dedication ceremony to honor Goodall as a great patriot who always exhibited perseverance in the face of adversity,” Rep. Schiff said. “For more than 50 years, Goodall was dedicated to helping others -- as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker. We are very fortunate for the truly positive impact he had on our community, and his courageous life story, as well as his legacy of service, lives on and inspires us all.”Goodall entered the service at Tuskegee in February 1943. In October 1944, he graduated as a multi-engine pilot and was assigned to the 477th Bomber Group at Godman Field, Kentucky, in January 1945, where he attained his First Pilots rating in six months. Goodall was among 60 African American U.S. Army Air Corps officers arrested for trying to peacefully integrate an all-white officers’ club, which came to be known as the Freeman Field Mutiny. The ‘mutiny’ was an important step toward full integration of all U.S. armed forces worldwide in June 1949, serving as a model for later Civil Rights efforts to integrate public facilities.“For more than 50 years, my grandfather served our community as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker, and dedicating the post office in his name is a great joy and an honor for our family,” said Tony Goodall. “I hope that by paying tribute to my grandfather, this will serve as a reminder, not only to our family and friends, but also to our neighbors about the importance of service, as well as an inspiration for young men and women that their contributions to society really will make a difference.”Rep. Schiff’s district office is coordinating with the Goodall family, including Oliver’s grandson Tony, to schedule the dedication ceremony, which will be open to the public.-30-
11.04.11	11.04.11 Schiff Tapped as House Conferee for Consideration of Agriculture, Commerce-Justice-Science & Transportation-HUD Appropriations Bill Washington, DC– House Appropriations Committee Ranking Democratic Member Rep. Norm Dicks (D-WA) tapped Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) to serve as a Conferee for H.R. 2112: The Agriculture; Commerce-Justice-Science; & Transportation-HUD Appropriations Bill. Congressional Conference Committees are appointed to find a path to compromise on a bill that both chambers can accept, as both chambers must eventually pass the identical legislation for the bill to become law.“I am honored to serve as a Conferee for the Agriculture, Commerce-Justice-Science & Transportation-HUD Appropriations,” Rep. Schiff said. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure priority programs like space exploration, DNA technology, State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), and Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) are funded at appropriate levels, while urging a timely conclusion to consideration of the FY2012 budget.”Conferees in addition to Reps. Dicks and Schiff include: Reps. Rosa DeLauro, Connecticut; John Olver, Massachusetts; Ed Pastor, Arizona; David Price, North Carolina; Sam Farr, California; and Chaka Fattah, Pennsylvania.-30-
11.04.11	11.04.11 Schiff Introduces Utilizing DNA Technology to Solve Cold Cases Act of 2011 Bill would instruct the FBI to expand the availability of Familial DNA testing Washington, DC –For nearly 25 years, a serial killer roamed the streets of South Los Angeles, murdering at least 11 people. According to Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) Chief Charlie Beck, the challenge facing the LAPD was the fact that it had the DNA from the suspect, but there was no match in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). After the LAPD conducted a Familial DNA search of California’s DNA database and received a hit, a reverse family tree was prepared, which allowed detectives to evaluate all persons related to the Familial DNA match. The investigators began to focus on Lonnie David Franklin Jr., the father of the Familial DNA match. Franklin was placed under surveillance and investigators were able to obtain samples of his DNA. Franklin's DNA was sent to the labs, which resulted in an exact match of the "Grim Sleeper" murder suspect, allowing the LAPD to finally crack the years-old serial killer case in July 2010.“In the case of the Grim Sleeper, law enforcement did outstanding work for many years,” said Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA). “When police requested a state check of Familial DNA, we were fortunate that the match occurred in California. If the Grim Sleeper’s son had been arrested and jailed in Nevada, no match would have been made and the accused killer would still be at large. The Utilizing DNA Technology to Solve Cold Cases Act instructs the FBI to expand the availability of Familial DNA testing in appropriate cases by allowing familial searches of the national DNA database. Searching the national database would increase the capacity of law enforcement to solve violent crimes, taking murderers and rapists off the streets and protecting our families.”Specifically, the Utilizing DNA Technology to Solve Cold Cases Act of 2011 instructs the FBI to:Create a system whereby a state can request a familial search of the national DNA database;Implement a number of procedures to protect the privacy and civil liberties of individuals, and ensure that familial searching is implemented in such a way as to provide the maximum amount of oversight of how the evidence is used; andReport annually to Congress on the number of familial searches requested and their outcomes.The bill introduced by Rep. Schiff incorporates input from a variety of stakeholders on how to make a familial DNA system work effectively across state lines. Only investigations of murders and serious sex crimes will be eligible for familial searches. States must first investigate possible familial matches within their own borders before requesting testing in other states, and must have policies in place to protect the privacy rights of innocent family members.“The “Grim Sleeper” was a case that spanned nearly 25 years of investigation and claimed the lives of at least 11 innocent victims,” said LAPD Chief Charlie Beck. “It was not until we attempted to use Familial DNA that our investigators got the clue they needed. Familial DNA testing proved to be an invaluable tool that assisted our detectives in the apprehension of the "Grim Sleeper" murder suspect, and the ability to utilize the national database would strengthen that tool even further."-30-
11.03.11	11.03.11 Schiff Urges Senate & House Appropriations Subcommittees to Focus More Resources on the Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Senate and House Appropriations Subcommittees on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, Sens. Patrick Leahy and Lindsey Graham, and Reps. Kay Granger and Nita Lowey, urging them to direct USAID and the Department of State to focus not less than $10 million for humanitarian and development programs in the Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh.“Given the continued drumbeat of bellicose rhetoric emanating from Azerbaijan, it is more important than ever that the United States support the right of self-determination of the people of Nagorno-Karabakh,” Rep. Schiff said. “Directing these resources to Nagorno-Karabakh will not only help the people of the Karabakh cope with humanitarian crises resulting from the twin blockade by Turkey and Azerbaijan, but it will also help to stabilize the region by demonstrating our continued commitment to a peaceful resolution of the conflict.”Please find the full text of Rep. Schiff’s letter below:Dear Chairman Leahy, Chairman Granger and Ranking Members Graham and Lowey: As you begin work on a final version of the FY 2012 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs bill, I urge you to include stronger report language directing USAID and the Department of State to focus more resources on the Republic of Nagorno-Karabakh.U.S. policy toward the South Caucasus states has included promoting the resolution of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Given the continued drumbeat of bellicose rhetoric emanating from Azerbaijan, it is more important than ever that the United States maintain a principled stand for peace in this region and support Nagorno-Karabakh and I request that the conference report include language directing USAID to spend not less than $10 million in Fiscal Year 2012 for humanitarian and development programs in Nagorno-Karabakh. Unfortunately, the State Department has failed to follow Congressional intent to deliver funds to Nagorno-Karabakh. From 2004 to 2010, the State Department expended less than $13 million, while Congressional intent expressed through conference reports and public law called for $46 million for humanitarian and, as of 2010, development assistance. It is therefore vital that the Congress include language requiring that not less than $10 million be expended in Fiscal Year 2012. I appreciate the inclusion of language regarding Nagorno-Karabakh in the draft House Report that has been circulating since late July, but I believe that given past practice, the State Department will interpret anything less than an explicit directive as continued acquiescence by the Congress of the under-funding of programs in this overwhelmingly Armenian region. I share the belief that American aid must be matched by the capacity of the recipient authority to absorb the assistance, but that caveat should not be used as an excuse to shortchange friends and allies that are considered of vital importance to significant numbers of Americans as well as many Members of Congress in both chambers and from both parties.These are challenging times for America and the world. I am confident, however, that directing additional resources to Nagorno-Karabakh will not only help the people of the Karabakh people to advance their own economy in the face of a twin blockade by Turkey and Azerbaijan, but it will also help to stabilize the region by demonstrating our continued commitment to a peaceful resolution of the conflict.Sincerely,ADAM B. SCHIFFMember of Congress -30-
11.02.11	11.02.11 Go for Broke Regiments Receive Congressional Gold Medal Washington, DC– Today, the U.S. Army 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, was awarded with the Congressional Gold Medal. The highly-decorated Japanese-American World War II Veterans received this special recognition as a result of the President signing into law companion legislation to a bill Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced in the House on Oct. 5, 2010. The legislation pays tribute to the “Go For Broke” regiments, as well as the Military Intelligence Service, comprised of Japanese-American troops who fought in Europe and the Asia-Pacific theatre during WWII.“It was a thrill to stand next to the brave Japanese-American members of the ‘Go For Broke’ regiments and the veterans of the Military Intelligence Service today as they were awarded with the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian honor, for their dedication to our country during World War II,” Rep. Schiff said, lead sponsor of the legislation in the House and son of a WWII veteran. “These remarkable men left a segregated nation to fight and defend an America with no guarantee that their own freedom would be defended in return. These American heroes did defend our freedoms and ideals. Their true heroism lies in how they fought for the values of America – equality, justice, and opportunity – even when those values were denied them at home. And they paved the way for millions of other Americans to proudly wear the uniform today.”The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’ highest civilian honor and requires two-thirds of the House and the Senate to cosponsor the legislation before it can be voted on. The elite medal has been given selectively since 1776, when George Washington was awarded the first, and other honorees include Thomas Edison, the Wright Brothers, Rosa Parks and the Dalai Lama. The legislation originated in the House (H.R. 347) and passed in 2009 with nearly 300 cosponsors.“On behalf of all our veterans, I want to thank Congressman Adam Schiff for his help, and for being such a loyal and faithful supporter,” said Gary Yamauchi, a member of the Board of Directors for the Go For Broke National Education Center. “Our veterans will never forget this day; we are extremely delighted and in our own quiet way, we are very, very proud.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Stars and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.Full remarks from Rep. Schiff at the ceremony to follow:“Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we award the Congressional Gold Medal, the nation’s highest civilian honor to the “Go For Broke” regiments and the veterans of the Military Intelligence Service for their dedication to our country during World War II. “These remarkable men left a segregated nation to fight and defend an America with no guarantee that their own freedom would be defended in return. “There are no words more eloquent, more revealing of what these men endured and the legacy they left behind, than their own words, words like these: “‘On February 19, 1942, President Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066 . . . That was the blackest moment of my life – being treated as an enemy alien." Grant Ichikawa, veteran of the MIS.’ “‘I wanted to prove that I was a loyal American and wanted to fight for my country during a time of war." Joe Ichiuji, veteran of the 442nd (deceased).’“‘Here I was a Corporal, in a U.S. Army Uniform, not allowed to visit my family in the internment camp." Jimmie Kanaya, 442nd Regimental Combat Team.’“‘I felt that we had to fight, and to go forward. I was scared going up to the lines, and thought to myself, 'Well, this is it.' . . . After we were hit, I became so engaged in what we were doing that despite the shells, mortars, and machine gun fire coming in, I was no longer scared. I was too busy, and in combat, you learn to obey orders and push forward." Kelly Kuwayama, medic, 442nd.’“‘This [Japanese] prisoner was brought in to us on a stretcher after he was wounded. . . . And when I inquired how his treatment was, he looked me in the eye and said, 'You are a traitor.' 'Traitor?' I said. 'You can see that I am an American. I'm an American soldier fighting for my country. You are Japanese – a loyal Japanese soldier fighting for your country. If you were to cut our veins, the same blood would flow. But don't you call me a traitor.'" Grant Hirabayashi, veteran, Military Intelligence Service.’ “‘I told the others to watch out for the incoming fire, when one of my buddies stood up and got shot. I crawled over and picked him up, and he died in my arms. I just lost it then, and picked up the Thompson and charged the hill." George Joe Sakato, veteran of the 442nd, Medal of Honor recipient.’ “‘There have been 35 Japanese Americans promoted to the rank of general and admiral since Vietnam – a remarkable record when compared to World War II when the highest rank held by a Japanese American was that of major. This demonstrates the greatness of America – a nation that recognized it had made mistakes, corrected them, and moved on to become a stronger country. And we are proud to defend the freedoms and ideals that this country represents." Terry Shima, veteran of the 442nd.’ “These American heroes did defend our freedoms and ideals. Their true heroism lies in how they fought for the values of America – equality, justice, and opportunity – even when those values were denied them at home. And they paved the way for millions of other Americans to proudly wear the uniform today. “Members of the 442nd, 100th and MIS, it is an honor to be in the same room with you. Thank you, and congratulations.” -30-
11.02.11	11.02.11 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Spotlights Economic Study on the Contribution of the U.S. Copyright Industries Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus Co-Chairs, Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA), hosted a press conference on the release of the Copyright Industries in the U.S. Economy: The 2011 Report. The report, prepared by Economists Incorporated for the International Intellectual Property Alliance, demonstrates the continuing positive impact these industries have on the U.S. economy in terms of contribution to GDP, high-paying jobs and international trade. “Today’s report reminds us of the enormous economic importance of the American copyright industries and the many jobs they create,” Senator Whitehouse said. “We should celebrate our country’s continued success producing movies, music, and software, but also must protect these jobs from digital piracy and other forms of theft.” “We’ve long known how important the U.S. copyright industries are to the economy, and today’s report underscores that fact,” Senator Hatch said. “Maintaining strong IP rights is essential to economic growth and continued American innovation, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to protect and strengthen our nation’s largest export.”“The International Intellectual Property Alliance’s 2011 report on the economic impact of copyright industries reaffirms that the U.S. copyright industries are one of America’s chief job creators and competitive advantages in the global marketplace,” Rep. Goodlatte said. “We in Congress must promote policies that ensure the U.S. continues to lead the world in innovation and that the copyright industry in America remains a driving force and job-creating engine of our economy.”"As this study demonstrates yet again, America's competitive advantage lies in our endlessly creative people," Rep. Schiff said. "The jobs and economic activity generated by copyright-dependent industries are threatened by the rampant piracy of intellectual property, and I hope this report spurs Congress to take additional action against those who profit from the theft of ideas." “The U.S. copyright industry is an economic engine for the country, and independents contribute a significant portion by producing the most films in the U.S.,” said Jean Prewitt, President-CEO of the Independent Film & Television Alliance. “In all, U.S. copyright products, including independent films, account for $134 billion in foreign sales - a major increase over previous years.”"Today’s report highlights the value of the video game industry to the U.S. economy and its role as a source of high quality jobs,” said Michael D. Gallagher, president and CEO of the Entertainment Software Association. “The video game industry is built on intellectual property, and is generating high wages and significantly higher economic growth than the rest of the U.S. economy. Continued robust growth depends upon sustained commitments by U.S. trading partners to mutually protect increasingly valuable intellectual property.” “America’s creative industries including the songwriting and music publishing communities continue to generate jobs and economic growth, accounting for nearly 10 percent of all private sector jobs in 2010,” said David Israelite, President and CEO, National Music Publishers’ Association. “Our industries also continue to contribute significantly to a positive balance of trade for America - $134 billion worth in exports. That exceeds other sectors of the economy like aircraft, automobiles, agricultural products and pharmaceuticals. America’s copyright industries continue to be a key driver in our economy, and leadership from the International Anti-Piracy Caucus in Congress is key to maintaining an environment for ongoing success.”“This report confirms the strength and importance of the U.S. copyright sectors,” said Tom Allen, President and CEO, Association of American Publishers. “For the book and journal publishing industry, our growth and expansion worldwide is primarily because of significant financial, creative, technological and human capital investments. Yet this momentum, particularly in the global digital space, is threatened by online piracy. It is critical that Congress act to reduce digital piracy and protect the value of American intellectual property.”“This report underscores yet again the extraordinary resilience of software and the other copyright industries in the face of difficult economic times,” said Robert Holleyman, II, President and CEO, Business Software Alliance. “Copyright industries are creating jobs and driving growth throughout the economy, and the reason is simple — we are producing creative and innovative products that are in high demand around the world.”“This report offers compelling proof of just how important strengthening copyright protection is to protect and expand the number of American jobs,” said Cary Sherman, Chairman and CEO, Recording Industry Association of America. “The core copyright industries now employ more than 5 million workers in 2010, or nearly 4 percent of the entire U.S. workforce. On a wider scale, the broader copyright community employed more than 10.6 million workers in 2010 – that’s more than 8 percent of total U.S. employment. These are all good-paying, private sector jobs that anchor communities across the country and stimulate local economies. While these numbers are encouraging, unfortunately, we should have an even more positive story to tell. During the past decade, the U.S. music business for example has declined more than $7 billion in value, and has shed thousands of jobs, primarily due to the impact of online music theft. Together, these facts should be a wakeup call to Congress that we need to do a better job in protecting industries that are central to our nation’s competitiveness, which is why legislation aimed at rogue sites is more important than ever.”“In a struggling economy that has 9 percent or more unemployment, America’s creative community – those whose jobs and businesses are involved in the production of movies, music, books, and other forms of intellectual property – can be a driving force for putting Americans back to work,” said Michael O’Leary, Senior Executive Vice President, Global Policy and External Affairs, Motion Picture Association of America. “But the threat posed by the theft of the products we create is real and has a direct impact on the nearly 5.1 million workers employed by the creative community. When people steal our products, it is these workers who suffer. Fewer jobs are created, and health and pension benefits are harmed. Strong protections for intellectual property, and passage of legislation halting content theft by rogue websites will help sustain the crafts that historically and consistently make such a valued contribution to America's economy.”Background:The U.S. copyright industries’ contribution to our national economy is measured by several indicators, including: the contribution of the copyright industries to the U.S. current dollar gross domestic product; revenues generated from foreign sales and exports; share of national employment; and the “compensation premium” earned by copyright industry employees. -30-
11.01.11	11.01.11 MEDIA ADVISORY: International Anti-Piracy Caucus to Spotlight Economic Study on the Contribution of the U.S. Copyright Industries Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow, Wednesday Nov. 2,Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus Co-Chairs, Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) will host a press conference on the release of the Copyright Industries in the U.S. Economy: The 2011 Report, a report prepared by Economists Incorporated for the International Intellectual Property Alliance, demonstrating the continuing positive impact these industries have on the U.S. economy in terms of contribution to GDP, high-paying jobs and international trade. The U.S. copyright industries’ contribution to our national economy is measured by several indicators, including: the contribution of the copyright industries to the U.S. current dollar gross domestic product; revenues generated from foreign sales and exports; share of national employment; and the “compensation premium” earned by copyright industry employees.WHO: Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Representatives Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy CaucusMichael Gallagher, President & CEO, Entertainment Software Association(ESA)David Israelite, President & CEO, National Music Publishers’ Association (NMPA)Cary Sherman, Chairman & CEO, Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)Michael O’Leary, Senior Executive Vice President, Global Policy and External Affairs, Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) WHEN: Wednesday, November 2, 1 p.m. to 2:15 p.m. WHERE: Capitol Visitor’s Center, North Meeting Room (CVC 268). Enter beneath the East Front plaza of the U.S. Capitol at First Street and East Capitol Street. Please plan to arrive by 12:45 p.m. -30-
10.27.11	10.27.11 Schiff Presses FAA to Regulate Helicopter Traffic over Residential Neighborhoods Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) urged the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to set reasonable limits on helicopter flyovers of residential Los Angeles neighborhoods at a roundtable hosted by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee. The meeting was convened with representatives from the FAA, Helicopter Association International and the National Transportation Safety Board to examine helicopter flight operations in metropolitan areas, including Los Angeles County. At the roundtable, Rep. Schiff expressed support for the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act (H.R. 2677), sponsored by Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA). “Los Angeles area residents living in Pasadena, the Hollywood Hills, West Hollywood and other areas are especially affected by intrusive, disruptive and often non-emergency related helicopter traffic above their neighborhoods,” Rep. Schiff said. “The terrain of canyons around the Rose Bowl concentrates low-flying helicopter noise to high levels, and Hollywood Hills and West Hollywood residents frequently suffer from noise generated by celebrity news media that follow stars like Lindsey Lohan any time she leaves for a court appearance, which is frequently.” Under the legislation co-sponsored by Rep. Schiff, the FAA would be required to exercise its legal authority to set guidelines on flight paths and minimum altitudes for helicopter operators in residential areas in Los Angeles County within 12 months of being signed into law. Exemptions would be provided for law enforcement, emergency responders and the U.S. military. “I strongly support the Los Angeles Residential Helicopter Noise Relief Act and urge swift action by the FAA to set minimum altitude regulation through FAA rule so that Los Angeles area residents can finally enjoy peace and quiet in our communities,” Rep. Schiff said. -30-
10.24.11	10.24.11 Schiff Bill to Dedicate Pasadena Post Office to First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Passes the Senate, Awaits President's Signature Washington, DC– Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that legislation he introduced to designate the historic U.S. Postal Service office located at 281 E. Colorado Boulevard in Pasadena as the “First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Post Office” passed the Senate and now awaits the President’s signature. “I am so pleased that legislation to pay tribute to Oliver Goodall, a great patriot who always exhibited perseverance in the face of adversity, is one step closer to becoming law,” Rep. Schiff said. “Once signed by President Obama, this bill will honor the more than 50 years of public service that Goodall provided as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker. Goodall’s courageous life story, as well as his legacy of service, lives on and inspires us all. His dedication to helping others had a truly positive impact on our community, and for that we are very fortunate.”Goodall entered the service at Tuskegee in February 1943. In October 1944, he graduated as a multi-engine pilot and was assigned to the 477th Bomber Group at Godman Field, Kentucky, in January 1945, where he attained his First Pilots rating in six months. Goodall was among 60 African American U.S. Army Air Corps officers arrested for trying to peacefully integrate an all-white officers’ club, which came to be known as the Freeman Field Mutiny. The ‘mutiny’ was an important step toward full integration of all U.S. armed forces worldwide in June 1949, serving as a model for later Civil Rights efforts to integrate public facilities.“For more than 50 years, my grandfather served our community as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker, and dedicating the post office in his name is a great joy and an honor for our family,” said Tony Goodall. “I hope that by paying tribute to my grandfather, this will serve as a reminder, not only to our family and friends, but also to our neighbors about the importance of service, as well as an inspiration for young men and women that their contributions to society really will make a difference.” -30-
10.19.11	10.19.11 Schiff Statement on Operation Fast and Furious Schiff Statement on Operation Fast and FuriousCalls for politically motivated attacks on Attorney General to come to an endWashington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement concerning Operation Fast and Furious, calling for the politically motivated attacks on Attorney General Eric Holder to come to an end:“The politically motivated attacks on Attorney General Eric Holder need to come to an end. They are a meritless distraction from the important work of the Department of Justice, and the many men and women who work every day to make America safer. The evidence is clear and the Attorney General has been forthright throughout – he was not briefed on the details of Operation Fast and Furious until after the serious problems became public. The Attorney General then requested a full investigation by the Inspector General, exactly what we should want him to do. In fact, it now appears that Congressman Issa’s own staff received a briefing on Operation Fast and Furious in April 2010. Mr. Issa said nothing about the operation at the time -- one might just as well call for an investigation of his office -- but none is required. Mr. Issa should understand better than most that being made aware of a program's existence is not the same as being apprised of the operational details of a plan that has gone terribly wrong. At least two previous ATF operations, undertaken during the Bush Administration, used the same ‘gun walking’ tactics that failed in Fast and Furious, but my GOP colleagues were never heard to complain about them.“I spent six years as an Assistant U.S. Attorney, and one of the most potent weapons in a prosecutor's arsenal is the ability to roll lower level defendants against those higher up in their organization. Unfortunately, in the case of gun trafficking, straw purchasing carries such a minimal penalty that defendants have little incentive to make a deal in exchange for their testimony and assistance dismantling these criminal organizations. Without a serious penalty for straw purchasers, investigators have no hope of gaining their cooperation and testimony against the major gun traffickers. If the House majority is truly concerned about violence in Mexico and not just scoring political points, I suggest they support stronger penalties on firearm traffickers who supply vicious Mexican drug cartels with thousands of weapons.”
10.12.11	10.12.11 SCHIFF STATEMENT ON THE PENDING FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff released the following statement on the pending Free Trade Agreements:"Throughout my tenure in the House, I have reviewed the free trade agreements brought to Congress on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the economic impact on California and the nation, labor, human rights and environmental concerns, and the effect on American diplomacy and national security."After careful review of the Korea, Colombia and Panama free trade agreements, I have decided to support the Korea and Panama agreements and to oppose the deal with Colombia."The United States and South Korea have a deep and enduring relationship, forged on the battlefields of the Korean War and strengthened by more than six decades of vigilance against aggression by communist North Korea. In that time, South Korea has been transformed from impoverished and authoritarian nation to a vibrant democracy and the world’s 15th largest economy."According to the United States Trade Representative, the U.S.-South Korea agreement is estimated to increase American goods exports to South Korea by $10-11 billion, supporting at least 70,000 American jobs. South Korea is already the fifth largest importer of California goods, buying an annual average of $7.2 billion worth of goods from California businesses – primarily computer and electronic products and machinery – between 2008 and 2010. Korea is also a growing market for America’s entertainment industry, which is a cornerstone of the economy of greater Los Angeles area."I believe that both Korea and the United States will benefit from the added commerce and that our alliance will be strengthened as well and I will vote to support the agreement."Similarly, the United States and Panama have a long association, going back more than a century and centered on the Panama Canal. Not only will this agreement reinforce the friendship and ties between the United States and Panama, it will also give California firms the opportunity to build on the more than a quarter billion dollars worth of goods that our state exports to Panama each year. The United States already enjoys a trade surplus with Panama, and this agreement will give American business and American workers a further opportunity to successfully bid on work associated with the $5.25 billion project to expand the Panama Canal in the coming years."I believe that the U.S. – Panama Free Trade Agreement will benefit both countries and I will vote to support the agreement."Colombia has made enormous strides in the past few years in the fight against the FARC guerrillas and drug lords, who have threatened the nation’s existence and turned large parts of the country into war zones. In visiting the country, I have been impressed by the courage of the Colombian people and by the breadth of the suffering that the country has endured for many years. However, despite Colombia’s progress, the country still has a long way to go to meet acceptable standards of adherence to human rights norms, including labor rights. Unfortunately, violence against trade unionists is an endemic feature of life in Colombia and the country had more labor leaders assassinated last year than the rest of the world combined."Earlier this year, the Administration and the Colombian government negotiated a Labor Action Plan to stem the violence and bring those responsible for the murders and other crimes to justice. While I applaud the fact that the Colombian government seems sincere in wanting to address the problem, I am unconvinced that the efforts thus far are enough to withdraw the leverage that we have through the Andean Trade Promotion program, which requires periodic renewal. A study released last month by Human Rights Watch found "virtually no progress" by the Colombian government in getting convictions for killings that have occurred since early 2007."I am not convinced that the U.S. – Colombia Free Trade Agreement will lead to further safeguards for Colombian workers and their representatives and I will vote to oppose the agreement."-30-
10.12.11	10.12.11 Schiff Shares Frustration over Reckless Decision-Making and Irresponsible Behavior Washington, DC – As the Occupy Wall Street movement spreads across the nation, and into the 29th Congressional District, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement:“The Occupy Wall Street movement, which began last month with a small number of protesters at a park in New York City, has quickly spread across the nation. The movement puts a human face on the shared frustration Americans across the nation have over these persistently challenging economic times, marked by a struggling middle class, increased poverty, rampant home foreclosures, rising student loan debt, and big banks that have become outsized and out of touch.“In order for us to continue to grow economically, we have to have a strong, effective and efficiently regulated financial sector that works for both Wall Street and Main Street.“The protests raise legitimate concerns, and policymakers need to respond by continuing to focus on ways to foster an economy that offers stability and economic security for the middle class, and the opportunity for all to succeed. “I share America’s frustration with those folks who engaged in reckless decision-making and irresponsible behavior, and that are now trying to roll back Congress’ efforts to prevent the abusive practices that led us into this mess.“And I will continue to fight for meaningful reforms that bring manufacturing back to America, invest in the vital infrastructure of America’s future, and bring good paying jobs to our people.” -30-
10.05.11	10.05.11 Schiff to Host Small Business Assistance& Career Opportunity Fair Washington, DC – On Thursday, Oct. 20, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) will host a Small Business Assistance and Career Opportunity Fair, bringing government and community resources together to assist individuals looking for work and small businesses struggling to stay afloat or to grow.“Far too many people in our community are still struggling to find a job or keep their business afloat,” Rep. Schiff said. "The career fair will provide an opportunity for people to network and find additional resources to gain employment or build their businesses, even in a challenging economy."The Small Business Administration (SBA) recently announced that 13 private lenders have committed to increase small business lending by a combined $20 billion over the next three years. SBA provides a range of programs and services to small businesses, including guarantees on loans made by private lenders. At Rep. Schiff’s upcoming Small Business Assistance and Career Opportunity Fair, SBA will be present and available to provide information on small business loans, as well as resources for businesses to best-navigate tough economic times.Participants will also have the opportunity to attend workshops conducted by the Small Business Administration, Office of Personnel Management, Dept of Commerce Minority Business Development Agency, and the CA Employment Development Department. Additionally, federal, state and local government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and private employers will be available to provide information about career.Please find event details below:What: Rep. Adam Schiff presents the 29th Congressional District, Small Business Assistance and Career Opportunity Fair When: Thursday, Oct. 20, 2011 from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m.Where: Glendale Pacific Community Center -- 501 S. Pacific Ave., Glendale, CA 91204Pre-register here: https://schiff.house.gov/index.cfm?sectionid=150-30-
09.30.11	09.30.11 Schiff Statement on the Death of Anwar al-Awlaki Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) released the following statement after the President announced the death of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born leader of al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen:"Congratulations to President Obama, his national security team, and to the CIA and the U.S. Joint Special Operations Command that executed the operation to kill Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born leader of al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen and the mastermind behind several attacks against the United States, including the so-called “underwear bomber,” who tried to blow up a Northwest Airlines jetliner over Detroit on Christmas Day, 2009. As a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I have the privilege to work with the men and women of our Intelligence Community. Their dedication and professionalism are extraordinary, and, as today’s mission demonstrates, they work to protect all of us – everyday and everywhere. This is certainly not the end of al Qaeda, and we must remain vigilant, but the death of al-Awlaki marks an important milestone in the struggle against al Qaeda and its affiliates."-30-
09.20.11	09.20.11 Schiff Statement on the End of ‘Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Policy WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the end of the military's Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy:"Today’s end to the 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' policy is a major turning point in our nation’s history, finally ensuring a fair opportunity for all Americans to serve in the military. We should never discriminate against any American, and the need to ensure equality is all the more compelling when you consider that these men and women are putting their lives on the line for their country. I have been proud to support the repeal of this policy and I welcome this long-overdue change."-30-
09.11.11	09.11.11 Schiff on the 10th Anniversary of the September 11 Terrorist Attacks Pasadena, CA – This weekend, as we observe the 10th anniversary of the September 11, 2011 terrorist attacks, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement: "Ten years ago, I was walking to the Capitol when courageous passengers and crew aboard United Flight 93 fought off hijackers to force their plane down in a Pennsylvania field. Their bravery saved many lives on the ground, and if, as we now understand, the destination of that final plane was the Capitol itself, perhaps my own. “I heard a secondary explosion at the Pentagon, as streams of people poured past me on the street in the confused aftermath of the nation's most devastating terrorist attack. None of us will ever forget that awful day. “But my strongest memories of that day, more vivid even than the terrible scenes of destruction, are the tremendous and still anonymous acts of heroism of passengers on a plane, civilians helping others while buildings collapsed around them, and the many hundreds of brave responders who rushed into harm’s way. In their courage, and that of the men and women of the armed forces and intelligence community who have risked all to prevent any reoccurrence of such an attack, America truly reveals itself."Rep. Schiff will be participating in a number of commemorative events over the weekend. Visit his Facebook page (www.facebook.com/CongressmanSchiff) to view photos following the weekend.-30-
09.08.11	09.08.11 CONGRESS ADDRESSES BRAIN INJURY IN YOUTH AS STUDENTS RETURN TO SCHOOL WASHINGTON --Congressmen Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Howard Berman (D-CA), Elton Gallegly (R-CA), Buck McKeon (R-CA), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Joe Baca (D-CA) and Congresswoman Laura Richardson (D-CA) along with over 70 bi-partisan colleagues have co-sponsored The National Pediatric Acquired Brain Injury Plan Act (PABI Plan Act). The PABI Plan Act, also referred to as H.R. 2600, will fund a seven-year initiative to implement the National Pediatric Acquired Brain Injury Plan (PABI Plan) in all fifty states plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The PABI Plan will develop a seamless, standardized, evidence-based system of care that is universally accessible for the millions of families who have a child or young adult suffering from the #1 leading cause of death and disability for American youth: brain injury. The PABI Plan was created by the International Advisory Board of the Sarah Jane Brain Foundation.“Young people battling a brain injury deserve the best, most comprehensive care available to address their unique health care needs as they navigate the recovery process,”said Congressman Howard Berman (D, CA-28). “Implementation of the National Pediatric Acquired Brain Injury Plan Act is a critical component of this commitment and I am proud to support this effort.” “As the leading cause of death and disability among American youth, pediatric acquired brain injury is a major public health problem affecting millions of young people and their families,” said Rep. Adam Schiff (D, CA-29). “Those fortunate enough to survive brain injuries experience considerable cognitive, behavioral and communicative disabilities, and sometimes endure long-term medical complications. Implementation of the National Pediatric Acquired Brain Injury Plan Act will provide American youth with the quality of care they need as they travel the long and involved road to recovery.”“These efforts are critical to focus on the problem of pediatric acquired brain injuries, and represent substantive positive steps towards addressing the number one cause of death and disability in young persons,”said Chris Giza of the UCLA Pediatric Traumatic Brain Injury/Sports Concussion Program. The UCLA Pediatric Traumatic Brain Injury/Sports Concussion Program cares for young persons across the range of acquired brain injuries, from neurocritical care to sport-related concussion, from infancy to early adulthood. This program also includes community outreach, education and injury prevention. Furthermore, the UCLA Brain Injury Research Center has a strong research component working to decipher mechanisms of injury and plasticity, with the ultimate goal of maximizing recovery and delivering innovative treatments to these patients.“When a child suffers a brain injury, every American family is confronted with difficult decisions in terms of care, research and support. Systems of care are different from state to state, random from school district to school district and vary from one doctor’s office to another. What is needed is a national clearing house of information and resources for children and young adults impacted by brain injuries and their families,”said Congressman Lance.Patrick Donohue, the founder of the Sarah Jane Brain Foundation and father of Sarah Jane Donohue (namesake of the foundation), said “This is a historic day for the millions of American youth who suffer from the number one leading cause of death and disability, brain injury, as well as their families. This bill backed by Congressman Lance, Congressman Berman, Congressman Gallegly, Congressman McKeon, Congressman Schiff, Congressman Baca, Congresswoman Richardson and others would ensure families won’t have to reinvent the wheel when their child is impacted with a brain injury.”H.R. 2600 would create a national network of 52 State Lead Centers of Excellence, one for every state plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, with the responsibility of implementing the PABI Plan based on their own state's unique demographics, geography, laws, infrastructure, financing and causes of brain injuries without duplicating current practices. The legislation will cover the entire continuum of care from prevention, treatment in acute medical facilities, reintegration back into the schools, communities and homes and then transitioning into an adult system of greater independent living.The legislation will also focus on individuals with a "mild" traumatic brain injury which accounts for more than 80 percent of brain injuries each year, commonly referred to as concussions, as well as rural communities which account for 25 percent of the population and have higher incidence rates of brain injuries. For example, the 52 State Lead Centers would help children suffering from sports-related injuries by providing additional information, resources and care. The PABI Plan covers all acquired brain injuries from birth through 25 years of age while the brain is still in its developmental stages, which includes more than half of the young veterans returning from war with a brain injury since the average age of a veteran with a brain injury is 19.H.R. 2600 is the largest initiative in American history focusing on pediatric acquired brain injury, however, it was written so it does not create any new federal agency, it does not create any new federal positions and it does not increase the federal budget. It was also written so the federal commitment will sunset at the end of seven years.According to the Centers for Disease Control, more than 765,000 American youth aged 25 and younger enter an emergency department every year with a new traumatic brain injury. More than 80,000 are hospitalized and over 11,000 die annually. For more information about the PABI Plan or the Sarah Jane Brain Foundation please visit www.TheBrainProject.org/lettertosarahjane.php.H.R. 2600 already has over 70 bi-partisan co-sponsors including: Baca, Joseph N. “Joe” [CA-43], Bachus, Spencer [AL-6], Baldwin, Tammy [WI-2], Barrow, John [GA-12], Berman, Howard [CA-28], Blackburn, Marsha [TN-7], Blumenauer, Earl [OR-3], Bonner, Jo [AL-1], Brady, Robert A. [PA-1], Brown, Corrine [FL-3], Burgess, Michael C. [TX-26], Burton, Dan [IN-5], Capito, Shelley Moore [WV-2], Carson, Andre [IN-7], Connolly, Gerald E. "Gerry" [VA-11], Crenshaw, Ander [FL-4], Davis, Danny K. [IL-7], Diaz-Balart, Mario [FL-21], Doyle, Michael F. [PA-14], Fincher, Stephen [TN-8], Frank, Barney [MA-4], Fudge, Marcia L. [OH-11], Gallegly, Elton [CA-24], Griffin, Tim [AR-2], Grijalva, Raul M. [AZ-7], Grimm, Michael G. [NY-13], Harper, Gregg [MS-3], Himes, James A. [CT-4], Israel, Steve [NY-2], Jackson Lee, Sheila [TX-18], Jackson, Jesse L., Jr. [IL-2], Johnson, Hank [GA-4], Kildee, Dale E. [MI-5], King, Peter T. [NY-3], Kissell, Larry [NC-8], Langevin, Jim [RI-2], Larson, John B. [CT-1], Latham, Thomas “Tom” [IA-4], Latta, Robert [OH-5], Lewis, John [GA-5], Maloney, Carolyn B. [NY-14], Markey, Ed [MA-7], McGovern, James P. [MA-3], McKeon, Howard P. "Buck" [CA-25], McKinley, David B. [WV-1], McMorris Rodgers, Cathy [WA-5], Meehan, Patrick [PA-7], Michaud, Michael [ME-2], Miller, Brad [NC-13], Moran, James P. [VA-8], Norton, Eleanor Holmes [DC], Palazzo, Steven M. [MS-4], Payne, Donald M. [NJ-10], Pence, Mike [IN-6], Rahall, Nick [WV-3], Rangel, Charles B. [NY-15], Richardson, Laura [CA-37], Rivera, David [FL-25], Ross, Mike [AR-4], Runyan, Jon [NJ-3], Rush, Bobby L. [IL-1], Ryan, Tim [OH-17], Schiff, Adam B. [CA-29], Sessions, Pete [TX-32], Sires, Albio [NJ-13], Thompson, Glenn [PA-5], Tiberi, Patrick J. [OH-12], Tierney, John [MA-6], Towns, Ed [NY-10], West, Allen [FL-22], Yarmuth, John A. [KY-3]; Primary Sponsor: Lance, Leonard [NJ-7] ####
08.18.11	08.18.11 Schiff Statement on President Obama's Call for the Removal of Bashar Assad as Syria's President Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after President Obama called for the removal of Bashar Assad as Syria’s president:“I am pleased that President Obama has now called for the removal of Bashar Assad as Syria’s president and has further tightened economic sanctions on the Syrian regime. I have been calling for Assad's departure for months and firmly believe that the Syrian dictator cannot be allowed to remain in power now that he has the blood of thousands of his own people on his hands. It is long past time for the international community to stand foursquare behind the Syrian people, who have shown remarkable courage in standing up to their oppressor, by strengthening sanctions until Assad steps down.” -30-
08.18.11	08.18.11 Schiff Selects Sandra Carrasco & Tamara Brown as 2011 ‘Angels in Adoption,' Congratulates Unsung Hero, Social Worker William Wong Pasadena, CA– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced he has selected Sandra Carrasco and Tamara Brown to be this year’s recipients of the 29th Congressional District “Angels in Adoption” award, an annual award sponsored by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI).“Sandra and Tamara have demonstrated such great compassion throughout the foster care and adoption process, and their dedication to, and love for Isaiah and Ciara make them an ideal choice for recognition as Angels in Adoption,” Rep. Schiff said.Sandra, a pre-school teacher, and Tamara, a field analyst at a charter school who conducts developmental observations, were certified as foster/adoptive parents by the Southern California Foster Family and Adoption Agency in August 2009, with the intention of providing a loving and stable home for children in foster care, eventually adopting children if they did not return to their birth families. The pair have done just that by adopting toddlers Isaiah and Ciara.They took in Isaiah, a premature baby boy, knowing that he required much attention for his many medical issues. After Isaiah was placed in their home, twice weekly visits with Isaiah’s birth mother began and continued for a year and a half into the placement, with a gradual tapering off of the visits to ease the upcoming adoption transition.Once Sandra and Tamara learned of Isaiah’s older sister Ciara, they voluntarily began making weekly visits to the medical facility where Ciara resided. Although Sandra and Tamara already had a full schedule with Regional Center and medical appointments for Isaiah, they were undaunted by the amount of care and assistance that these two children would need and happily welcomed Ciara into their home. Sandra and Tamara signed the initial adoption papers for Isaiah and Ciara on July 6 of this year and the finalization of the adoption is pending.When asked about the amount of attention needed to care for these two toddlers, Sandra and Tamara do not believe they are doing anything exceptional.“We are very fortunate to have their shining example as wonderful parents who have opened their hearts and home to two new toddlers,” Rep. Schiff said.Schiff also commended Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA) for nominating 29th Congressional District resident, unsung hero, and social worker William Wong for the prestigious “Angels in Adoption” award. Wong has been coordinator of Los Angeles County’s successful Wednesday’s Child program for 10 years. Under his leadership, the program became a household name and has resulted in more than 400 adoptions.The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s (CCAI) Angels in Adoption™ Program is CCAI’s signature public awareness program that provides all Members of Congress with the opportunity to honor the good work of their constituents like you, who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans. On October 3, 4 and 5, each Angel is invited to attend various Angels in Adoption ™ events in Washington, D.C., including the Pin Ceremony House and Reception and Gala, where all of the chosen Angels from across the country will be honored.Rep. Schiff is a Member of the Congressional Adoption Caucus and welcomes nominations for next year’s “Angels in Adoption” award. For information on how to submit a nomination for next year’s award please contact Congressman Schiff’s district office at 626-304-2727.-30-
08.11.11	08.11.11 Schiff Hosts Roundtable Discussion on Economic Competitiveness, Start-ups and Visas Pasadena, CA – Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) hosted a roundtable discussion with local business leaders, entrepreneurs, and Caltech faculty and students at the Caltech Avery Library yesterday, focusing on our economic competitiveness, the environment for start-ups and the impact of visa policies in Southern California and across the nation.Every year, many graduates from our nation’s top universities, such as Caltech, have no other option but to return to their country of origin at the expiration of their student visas. Many of these students – the best and the brightest – have graduate degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering, Math (STEM), and other related fields. Unfortunately, due to the lack of U.S. immigration options, these tremendously talented individuals are being forced to take their entrepreneurial ideas and build on them in foreign countries, boosting those economies instead of our own. Rep. Schiff plans to introduce a bill this Congress to address this critical issue.“As the nation continues to struggle with a sluggish economy, we must make every effort to speed-up our recovery,” Rep. Schiff said. “The loss of American-educated talent only contributes to our economic problems, and we should do all we can to retain those who hold highly-coveted STEM degrees and want to stay in the U.S., start a new business, and hire U.S. workers by encouraging them to make the U.S. their home.”-30-
08.10.11	08.10.11 Schiff Hosts Breakfast for TACL, IAPAC, CASIC and KAC Interns Pasadena, CA – This morning, Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) hosted about 40 interns from the Taiwanese American Citizens League (TACL), Indochinese American Political Action Committee (IAPAC), CAUSE’s California Asian American Student Internship Coalition (CASIC) Leadership Academy, and the Korean American Coalition (KAC) for breakfast at the Los Angeles Zoo. “It was a pleasure to meet and interact with the interns involved in the TACL, IAPAC, CASIC and KAC programs, all of whom were exceptionally impressive with bright and prosperous futures ahead of them,” Rep. Schiff said. “I learned the value of internship experiences as a young person interning for a handful of public officials, and I hope these students have equally rewarding experiences. I like to joke that my office is like ‘Hotel California’ – you can check out, but you can never leave. I encouraged the young people to stay in touch with my office, as well as the offices in which they are interning, to keep us informed about their academic and professional success.”Interns from TACL, IAPAC, CASIC and KAC are participating in summer internship programs for high school and college students, spending the summer working in legislative offices. The breakfast kicked off with remarks from Zoo Director John Lewis and the Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association (GLAZA) President Connie Morgan, followed by a brief Washington update from Rep. Schiff, as well as a question and answer session between the Congressman and the interns. After the breakfast, the interns split into groups for private tours of the zoo. -30-
08.03.11	08.03.11 Schiff Condemns Partial FAA Shutdown, Calls on Airlines to Pass Savings onto Passengers Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) expressed his frustration with the House Majority for breaking for August recess without passing a clean FAA reauthorization bill and sent a letter calling on the airlines to pass on savings as a result of the shutdown to their passengers:“It is appalling to me that the House Majority has recessed for August without passing a clean FAA reauthorization bill, forcing a partial shutdown of the FAA. The shutdown will cost the government $200 million a week and will total more than $1.2 billion by the time Congress returns in September. It has placed on hold hundreds of airport construction projects across the country and has cost 74,000 jobs, at a time when we need to do everything we can to get Americans back to work. Congress should be called back into session if necessary to fix this problem.“Additionally, in the absence of taxes and fees collected on flights, many airlines have not passed the savings on to consumers and instead have raised the cost of tickets. I sent a letter to the airlines, urging them to pass the savings onto passengers and asking them to refund passengers for the higher than normal ticket prices.”The full text of the letter sent by Rep. Schiff to the airlines today can be found below: August 3, 2011Mr. Richard AndersonCEO, Delta Air LinesChair, Air Transport AssociationMr. Anderson,Like you, I am discouraged that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has been shut down. As a result of this shut down, vital aviation improvements are being put off, thousands of FAA employees have been furloughed, and the Aviation Trust Fund, the fund needed to maintain our aviation system, has effectively been shuttered.Given these dramatic turn of events, I am disappointed by public reports that some airlines are taking advantage of everyday Americans. Specifically, I understand that some airlines are continuing to charge passengers for the cost of federal aviation taxes on their tickets even though these taxes have expired, and keeping the money for themselves.Consumers quite frankly are being taken advantage of by these airlines. Instead of taking advantage of the FAA shut down, airlines should be passing these immediate savings on to the consumers now. However, it appears that most airlines have taken the alternative route by increasing prices and their profits at the expense of everyday Americans.In addition, I am concerned about those consumers who purchased their tickets and paid the applicable excise taxes prior to the FAA shut down. These passengers, who are traveling during this shut down, are entitled to a refund for these federal taxes paid when they purchased their ticket. The Internal Revenue Service has requested airlines assistance in facilitating these refunds. Airlines are best suited to do so because they already have the purchaser information and can streamline refunds. However, so far airlines have declined to do so.Therefore, I urge the Air Transport Association (ATA) and all of your member airlines to charge the same price for airfare that you did immediately before the FAA shutdown. In addition, for those passengers who already paid federal excise taxes for travel scheduled during the FAA shutdown or who were forced to pay more for their base airfare because of their profiteering tactics after the FAA shutdown took effect, they should immediately be given a refund of those cost overruns.In these extraordinary times when so many Americans are out of work or simply trying to make ends meet, airlines should not be taking advantage of things like an FAA shutdown to increase their profits. I look forward to hearing from the ATA regarding this important issue.Sincerely,Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress -30-
08.01.11	08.01.11 Schiff Statement on House-Passed Bill to Avoid Government Default Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the House approved a bill tonight that raises the federal debt limit and cuts discretionary spending by $1 trillion over the next 10 years, averting a government default."America pays its debts, and tonight I voted to pay them. The bill represents a painful and unbalanced compromise that should have included revenue, as part of a grand bargain that would set this nation on a new and responsible path towards true fiscal responsibility. Such a measure would have have created jobs and given our economy a much-needed shot in the arm. This bill won't. It had only one merit -- that it would avoid the cataclysm of America defaulting on its debts for the first time in history with all the long-lasting economic damage that would have done. For that reason, and that reason alone, it had my support. I can only hope that now that this man-made crisis is over, we can get down to the most important job of all, putting Americans back to work. That has been and will continue to be my top priority."The bill, which passed by a 269 to 161 margin in the House, now goes to the Senate, which is likely to take up the measure tomorrow, Aug. 2 -- the day the Treasury said it would begin running out of funding to pay the nation's bills.-30-
07.29.11	07.29.11 Schiff Joins Daphna Ziman to Kick Off Children Uniting Nations' "Keeping the Promise to Our Children" National Conference Washington, DC –Yesterday morning, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) joined Daphna Ziman to kick off Children Uniting Nations’ “Keeping the Promise to Our Children” National Conference, a day-long forum for policy makers and academics to discuss how our laws can better serve America’s children.“The greatest measure of a society is how well it treats its most vulnerable population, and in our society, the most vulnerable are our children, and among those -- our foster children,” Rep. Schiff said. “I was pleased to join Daphna this morning to emphasize the importance of caring for our nation’s foster youth, and attacking the tragic prevalence of human trafficking. Congress can and should play an important partnership role in supporting initiatives to help improve the lives of children and families in our communities.”Children Uniting Nations is a non-profit organization dedicated to providing foster children with quality role-model support, guidance, a sense of community and quality education. The organization matches participants with highly trained mentors that are compassionate and committed, in order to make a positive difference in the lives of our most vulnerable children.“All children need safe, permanent environments in which to grow and thrive,” Rep. Schiff said. “Daphna and Children Uniting Nations play a critical role in helping children to enter adulthood prepared to live a happy, healthy and productive life, without the handicap of a troubled childhood. We have a responsibility to meet these goals, and anything less is unacceptable.”As a 25-year mentor in the Big Brothers, Big Sisters organization, Rep. Schiff has a keen appreciation for the goals of Children Uniting Nations’ mentoring program. He remembers his own experiences with mentoring as one of the best experiences of his life and believes mentoring can have a significant effect on averting young people from negative behavior, and inspiring them to participate successfully in school and community life.“Daphna Ziman has the biggest heart in this town or any other” Rep. Schiff said. “I am honored to be associated with her and will do everything I can to advance this important issue.”-30-
07.25.11	07.25.11 Schiff Discusses Ongoing Debt Talks on Fox News' America's Newsroom Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) joined Fox News host Alisyn Camerota on America’s Newsroom to discuss the ongoing debt and deficit negotiations. See below for a transcript of the interview. Click here to watch the video on Rep. Schiff’s YouTube Channel. Rep. Schiff also appeared on Fox News Sunday with Shannon Bream. Click here to watch.Transcript:ALISYN CAMEROTA, FOX NEWS ANCHOR:The battle over the debt crisis ping- ponged back and forth this weekend, and the clock, of course, is ticking to a deadline. Both sides are now working on separate plans after failing to find common ground over the weekend. House Speaker John Boehner, appearing exclusively on "FOX NEWS SUNDAY" yesterday, says any thoughts of going back to the Obama administration's grand bargain might be a nonstarter. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. JOHN A. BOEHNER, R-OHIO, SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE:It may be pretty hard to put Humpty-Dumpty back together again, but my last offer is still out there. (END OF VIDEO CLIP) CAMEROTA:At FOX News, you know, we keep our coverage fair and balanced. Last hour we spoke with Republican Ron Johnson. Here for the other side is California Congressman Adam Schiff. Good morning, Mr. Schiff. Thanks for being here. REP. ADAM SCHIFF, D-CALIFORNIA:Good morning. CAMEROTA:OK. SCHIFF:Thank you. CAMEROTA:We're eight days away. Where are we at this hour with some sort of deal? SCHIFF:Well, it's not very encouraging. I don't like the fact that you have the Republican leadership in the House working on its own idea, the Senate leadership working on its own idea, because at the end of the day a party line approach is not going to work. It's got to get through both Houses. So I'm very concerned after the breakdown this weekend. We have to avoid defaulting on our debt. Our top priority really has to be the American economy, and what can we do to get the economy moving again and this uncertainty over the debt issue is just crippling us. I think it is harming us around the world. It's going to result in a lower bond rating. It's going to result in higher interest rates. We need to keep our focus on getting this done in a way that improves our economy, and I see us getting away from that and it concerns me enormously. CAMEROTA:Senate majority leader Harry Reid says that he will present a proposal. Based on some media reports, it will include $2.7 trillion in cuts. Do you know any more about what this Democratic proposal looks like? SCHIFF:I really don't and I don't know how much of that will also encompass the idea that the Bush tax cuts, at least the upper-income ones go out of existence. It seems hard for me to believe that he will be proposing nearly $2.7 trillion in cuts without any increase in revenue, something he's always supported. So it is very hard to gather. You know, I think that Grover Norquist opened a window for the parties to get to agreement without people violating their Norquist pledge by assuming that some of the Bush tax cuts go out of existence. And -- but at this point we don't know whether that's part of the Senate plan or not. CAMEROTA: As you know, a balanced budget amendment plan, the cut, cap and balance act, died in the Senate. What's wrong with the balanced budget amendment? SCHIFF: Well, what is wrong with it, at this hour is that from the very beginning the Senate and president has said that was a no-go. CAMEROTA: But what is the problem -- I mean people -- SCHIFF:So the more we travel down that path -- CAMEROTA:Americans seem to like the idea of politicians having to present a balanced budget and live by a balanced budget every year. So why not vote for that? SCHIFF:Well, embedding that in the Constitution, though, I think most economists would tell you it'd be a great mistake because when the economy goes sour you need to do counter cyclical things to get the economy back out again. This would be precluded by a balanced budget amendment. We didn't need a constitutional amendment to restore our deficit and debt situation in the Clinton administration. We did that without a constitutional amendment. An amendment would take many years to get passed. It's not going to help address the current crisis. What we have, really, is the need for the political will to get the job done and a willingness to compromise the way we saw Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan get to yes. That's really I think what we need to do but this proposal that was floated in the House, a week or so ago that would limit revenues to what they were many years ago, that would effectively result in cuts to Medicare and Social Security, greater than even what the Ryan budget proposed, was always going to be a nonstarter. And I think it did what it was intended to do, which was give the House Republicans some cover if they have to make a more difficult vote this week, but it didn't really advance the discussions very much and I think it's been, unfortunately, a needless distraction. CAMEROTA:Well, Congressman Adam Schiff, we appreciate you coming in to talk about this. Please let us know if anything happens today and good luck with getting all of this squared away. We appreciate it. SCHIFF:Thank you. -30-
07.19.11	07.19.11 Schiff Applauds Licensing Deal with China's Biggest Search Engine, Known for Illegal Downloads Washington, DC- Today, One Stop China, a joint venture between Sony Music, Warner Music, and Universal Music, announced a licensing deal with Chinese search and social networking giant Baidu. One of the 10 most trafficked websites in the world and the most popular website in China, Baidu has long been a major concern for U.S. copyright holders, as their services connected users to infringing music and video content and facilitated piracy. Baidu has been highlighted by the International Anti Piracy Caucus in its annual watch list every year since 2008, and in 2010, it was included among a list of six “Rogue Sites” that facilitate digital piracy on a massive scale.“The announcement of a licensing deal between some of America’s leading music labels and Baidu is a major step forward in the fight against the rampant piracy of the intellectual property,” said International Anti Piracy Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA). “With this deal, American creators will be fairly compensated for their talents. I applaud the deal and hope it is the first of many more steps by Baidu and other Chinese companies to respect international copyright norms. I also hope it sends a powerful message to other foreign websites identified in the 2011 Anti Piracy Caucus Watchlist, such as the Russian website vKontakte, that it’s time to become good corporate citizens.”The International Anti Piracy Caucus’s 2011 Watchlist report highlighted China as one of five nations of particular concern with regards to intellectual property protections. The report addressed Baidu at length, saying:“Websites offering pirated music remain an enormous problem. Baidu, the leader among China’s ‘deep-linking’ sites that connect users to infringing content, facilitates Internet piracy through its dedicated music service. We highlighted Baidu among our 2010 Rogue Sites List, and we continue to believe that Baidu’s facilitation of digital piracy drastically lessens the market for legitimate content in China. Approximately half of unauthorized music downloads in China take place through Baidu links. Indeed, as the United States Trade Representative reported in its Special 301 Review of Notorious Markets in February of this year; Baidu is the most visited site in China, and ranks among the top ten most visited sites in the world. In addition, numerous popular Internet forums point users to Chinese cyberlockers, where unauthorized files are available for download or streaming. Peer-to-peer file-sharing and streaming of infringing music content also remain pervasive.”-30-
07.18.11	07.18.11 Schiff on the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act: Not a Serious Legislative Proposal Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011, which has been introduced by the House Majority and could come to the House Floor for a vote as early as next week:“The “Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011” is not a serious legislative proposal, but a political device to give members of the majority political "cover." With only two weeks to go, we should not be spending precious time on proposals like this, which will go nowhere -- it would lock in cuts over the next ten years more severe than those proposed in Budget Chairman Ryan’s proposal -- and instead focus a meaningful package of fiscal reforms. How can we expect American businesses to hire more workers, if they cannot have the confidence that the Congress will take the steps necessary to avoid a major disruption to the market?“While there’s broad agreement that our long-term debt and deficit are unsustainable and must be addressed, this bill would require sharp, immediate spending cuts that put our vulnerable economic recovery in jeopardy at a time of great uncertainty, and limit spending to a percentage of GDP that the country has rarely achieved in the past. I continue to believe that both parties can come to an agreement on a “Grand Deficit Bargain” that makes tough but fair choices in putting us back on a path towards fiscal responsibility, and which includes both revenues and spending cuts. We ought to seize this opportunity to do something big to put the nation’s finances on a long-term, solvent and sustainable path.” -30-
07.14.11	07.14.11 House Adopts Schiff, Bass, Fudge Amendment to Advance Cutting-Edge Energy Research Washington, DC –Today, on a razor thin 214 to 213 vote, the House approved an amendment offered by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Rep. Charles Bass (R-NH), and Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH) in the FY2012 Energy and Water Appropriations bill to restore funding for cutting-edge research through the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). The amendment, which will provide a boost to the revolutionary arm of DOE started in 2009 to pursue high-risk, high-reward research on energy, passed on a bipartisan vote.The amendment was supported by Caltech, MIT, the University of California and more than 50 leading universities, as well as the CEO's of many of America's leading companies. As a result of its adoption, the ARPA-E will not be cut by 82%, which would have provided scarce resources to replace scientists leaving at the end of their term and hamstringing the agency.“With unrest in the Middle East and increasing demand for energy in China, we need all of the revolutionary energy ideas we can get, which is why this program is so vital to our economic future and national security,” Rep. Schiff said. “Investing in this program will bring in some of the brightest people in the country for two or three years to help pioneer America's energy innovation and future."“A diverse and sustainable energy portfolio is vital to ensuring our nation’s energy security and lessening our dependence on foreign sources of oil, in addition to helping the private sector create jobs,” Rep. Bass said. “Research programs like ARPA-E that help to cultivate advanced technology are important in producing significant energy savings and growing our economy, both worthy goals as our economy begins to recover.”Other DOE energy research programs focus on maturing technologies that can be deployed soon, and don’t have the vital collaborations with industry and academia that are present at ARPA-E. ARPA-E is modeled after the highly successful Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), which has produced famously successful inventions for the Department of Defense, and the nation, perhaps most notably the Internet. A key element of both agencies is that managers are limited to fixed terms, so that new blood continuously revitalizes the research portfolio.-30-
07.13.11	07.13.11 Schiff Amendment Would Restore Funding for Community Oriented Policing Services Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) offered an amendment to the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill for FY2012 to restore $600 million to the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) office at the Department of Justice (DOJ) for hiring grants. COPS hiring grants assist police departments large and small with the costs of hiring new police officers.“Since its creation in 1994, COPS hiring programs have helped put an additional 100,000 police officers on the streets and in neighborhoods – it’s not a coincidence that we’ve seen a nationwide decrease in violent crime over that period,” Rep. Schiff said. “We have to find a way to maintain our support for local law enforcement, and that’s what my amendment would do. Eliminating COPS in this climate will have a devastating impact on our police departments and their ability to keep our communities safe.”The amendment would fund COPS by reducing the salaries and expenses account of the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) by 10 percent. While this figure represents a major cut, the BOP is also one of very few agencies in the underlying bill that received anything approaching its request.-30-
07.13.11	07.13.11 Schiff Amendments Would Boost Funding for Critical Science, Space & Technology Initiatives Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) offered two amendments to the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill for FY2012 to restore vital funding for science and technology, which were disproportionately affected by the cuts proposed in the underlying bill. Unfortunately, both amendments failed in committee.“It is important that we make a strong investment in science and technology if we want our nation to have a prosperous future,” Rep. Schiff said. “The cuts included in this bill could not be more shortsighted – science and technology funding is vital to ensuring that America continues to be at the forefront of space exploration.”Specifically, the bill cancels the James Webb Space Telescope, after billions has already been invested in it. Rep. Schiff believes this successor to the Hubble Space Telescope will be just as revolutionary, and it will be the centerpiece astronomical instrument in the world for decades to come.“The James Webb Space Telescope has the potential to revolutionize our understanding of our place in the universe,” Rep. Schiff said. “It will be a hundred times more sensitive than current observatories and accessible to thousands of scientists at universities all across the country, while providing images even more impressive than the Hubble images that have staggered our imagination. I am deeply disappointed to see that this was not made a priority by the committee.”The bill also makes significant cuts to Earth Science, which contains projects to help us understand earthquakes in California, long-term weather patterns that affect rainfall across the country, and many other important issues. Additionally, the bill cuts technology funding by more than 60 percent from the President’s request.“Technology research at NASA has been decimated over the last decade,” Rep. Schiff said. “If we are worried about America’s place in the world and the emergence of global players like China in space and high-tech fields, this is the place to start. America is not the leader in space because we build bigger rockets than everyone else – we don’t – but because we build better rockets than everyone else. I hope the full House will make these initiatives a priority and restore funding for these important programs.”One of Rep. Schiff’s amendments would restore a portion of the cut to science, providing an additional $200 million, or an increase of about 4 percent. The second amendment offered by Rep. Schiff would add $125 million to the space technology account, increasing the account to $500 million. Rep. Schiff believes this is the minimum amount that would allow real technology development at NASA. He will continue fighting to restore funding for these initiatives when the bill comes to the floor for a vote on the full House.-30-
07.13.11	07.13.11 Schiff Statement on Attacks in Mumbai Washington, D.C. – Ranking Member of the Technical and Tactical Subcommittee on Intelligence Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement today on the deadly attacks in Mumbai, India: “My heart and prayers go out to the people of India, and the victims and families devastated by today’s senseless attacks in Mumbai. As a close ally and the world’s largest democracy, India will recover, and we will work side-by-side with its government to bring those responsible for today’s tragedy to justice.” -30-
07.13.11	07.13.11 Schiff Offers Amendment to Give Congress Authority to Seek Gun Trace Data Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) offered an amendment to the FY2012 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill that would add Congressional Committees with oversight responsibilities for law enforcement, intelligence, and national security to the list of entities that are allowed to request gun trace information from the ATF.“Operation Fast and Furious, which resulted in the deaths of both American and Mexican citizens, exemplifies the need to do away with regulations that handicap Congress’s oversight responsibilities,” Rep. Schiff said. “Trace data is critically important to both law enforcement operations that target gun traffickers, as well as to the Congressional oversight of those operations.”Earlier this year, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Explosives & Firearms’ (ATF) engaged in a surveillance program code-named “Operation Fast and Furious,” in which ATF agents were instructed to allow guns purchased by known criminals to be illegally trafficked across the border to Mexico in an effort to connect those guns to drug cartels. The operation resulted in hundreds of guns being transferred to cartels, which were later found at crime scenes and submitted into the U.S. eTrace system, which stores gun trace data and is maintained by the ATF. However, due to a rider that has been a feature of Appropriations bills since 2003, known as the “Tiahrt Amendment,” the ATF cannot provide that data to any entity other than a law enforcement agency.As a result, Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa and Ranking Member of the Committee on the Judiciary Chuck Grassley were forced to attempt to obtain this vital information through a convoluted process whereby Mexican law enforcement would request it from the ATF and then provide it to Congress. On June 21, Chairman Issa and Ranking Member Grassley jointly wrote to the Mexican Ambassador to the United States, Arturo Sarukhan, to request gun trace information for guns connected to Operation Fast and Furious. However, there is no guarantee that Mexican law enforcement officials will comply with this request, and the questions regarding Operation Fast and Furious may remain unanswered as a result.Regrettably, the committee rejected the amendment by a vote of 20-27.A bipartisan coalition of more than 600 Mayors Against Illegal Guns have urged the repeal of the Tiahrt Amendment in the FY 2012 budget. Without fully repealing the Tiahrt Amendment, Rep. Schiff’s amendment would provide the necessary recourse for Congressional Committees to properly conduct their oversight responsibilities to keep our communities safe."It is ludicrous that Congress would need to ask a foreign government to request documents in the possession of a U.S. Agency, the ATF,” Rep. Schiff said. “This amendment would facilitate the investigation of Fast and Furious and restore Congress' ability to do adequate oversight. If the committee is unwilling to untie the Congress' hands, I would hope the full House will."-30-
07.12.11	07.12.11 Schiff Writes to AG Holder Concerning the Murder of Mike Yepremyan Washington, DC –Yesterday, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent the following letter to Attorney General Eric Holder concerning the murder of 19-year-old Mike Yepremyan from North Hollywood and the primary suspect in the case, Zareh Manjikian: Dear Mr. Attorney General:I am writing to bring to your attention a case of great concern to me and my constituents, and to respectfully request your assistance. In November 2009, Mike Yepremyan, a 19-year-old college student was murdered in a North Hollywood parking lot. The senseless and brutal killing occurred over an argument about a text message that he had sent. His killers lured him to a parking lot, assaulted him, and shot him to death from close range.Since the murder, the Los Angeles Police Department has aggressively investigated the case. After an 18 month investigation, a primary suspect was identified and located in Puerto Rico, where he had apparently fled after the murder. The suspect, Zareh Manjikian, was captured by U.S. Marshals in May 2011, and placed in Puerto Rican custody to await an extradition request by the Los Angeles District Attorney.Incredibly, just when it seemed justice would be done, Mr. Manjikian appeared before Puerto Rican Judge Gloria Maynard. The Judge set bail at the extraordinarily low amount of $50,000, meaning the suspect needed to post only $5,000 in cash to make bail. Not surprisingly, Mr. Manjikian posted bail and fled once again. His location is currently unknown. A suspect in a premeditated murder who had already fled from California and actively evaded attempts to capture him should never have been released from custody, much less so on such a low bail.I understand that the U.S. Marshal Service has worked diligently in close collaboration with the LAPD to locate Mr. Manjikian. I ask you to use the full powers of your office to assist in the recapture of Mr. Manjikian, wherever he may be, and to bring him to justice. Additionally, I ask that you, in cooperation with Puerto Rican authorities, investigate the circumstances that led to his release from custody and pursue any leads that could lead to his recapture.Thank you as always for your service and your assistance in this important matter.Sincerely,Congressman Adam B. Schiff -30-
07.12.11	07.12.11 Schiff Statement Regarding Information Requests for Multiple Sales of Semi-Automatic Rifles with Detachable Magazines Washington, DC – Yesterday, after the Department of Justice announced the approval of a new rule requiring gun dealers in states along the Southwest Border to report the sale of multiple semi-automatic rifles to a single buyer, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement:“I have been calling on the Department of Justice and the White House to approve such a rule for some time, and this is a very important development,” Rep. Schiff said. “Existing law already requires dealers to report the sale of multiple handguns, and these reports provide invaluable leads to stop illegal gun trafficking. We know that semi-automatic rifles are the weapon of choice for violent Mexican drug cartels, and this rule will give law enforcement a badly needed tool to keep assault weapons out of the hands of criminals in the U.S. and in Mexico.”“The international expansion and increased violence of transnational criminal networks pose a significant threat to the United States,” said Deputy Attorney General James Cole in a statement. “Federal, state and foreign law enforcement agencies have determined that certain types of semi-automatic rifles – greater than .22 caliber and with the ability to accept a detachable magazine – are highly sought after by dangerous drug trafficking organizations and frequently recovered at violent crime scenes near the Southwest Border. This new reporting measure -- tailored to focus only on multiple sales of these types of rifles to the same person within a five-day period -- will improve the ability of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives to detect and disrupt the illegal weapons trafficking networks responsible for diverting firearms from lawful commerce to criminals and criminal organizations. These targeted information requests will occur in Arizona, California, New Mexico, and Texas to help confront the problem of illegal gun trafficking into Mexico and along the Southwest Border.”-30-
07.12.11	07.12.11 Schiff Amendment Would Support Space Exploration, National Security Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) offered an amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations bill, which funds the Department of Energy (DOE), to include investments necessary to restart energy production that would provide dependable power in locations where no other source of power is available, such as in deep space and underwater.“This project will make an incredible impact on our ability to do the kind of space exploration that cannot be done by any other nation in the world,” Rep. Schiff said. For the last 50 years, DOE has created Radioisotope Thermal Generators (RTGs) for NASA and the Department of Defense (DOD). These small devices use the heat naturally generated by radioactive plutonium-238 isotopes to provide dependable power. Unfortunately, in the early ‘90s, the U.S. shut down Pu-238 production, and since then, the DOE has been using stockpiled material and material purchased from Russia to build these devices. Recently, Russia refused to continue that relationship, and our supply of Pu-238 is almost exhausted. Because of the time it takes to restart the fabrication facilities and produce these materials, the amount of Pu-238 needed to build an RTG will only be available 5 or 6 years after the decision to restart production.Schiff’s amendment would provide the $10 million of funding requested by DOE and included in the President’s budget request for restarting Pu-238 production, within the Nuclear Energy account. NASA, as the biggest customer for the RTGs, has requested the same level of funding, pursuant to a 50/50 split agreed to by the agencies. NASA has traditionally reimbursed DOE for any RTGs produced for NASA, and the 50/50 split of this start-up money is consistent with that division, in which DOE handles the infrastructure costs and NASA pays for the special nuclear materials produced for U.S. government purposes.“With no other viable ways to provide this power, the U.S. must restart production now to generate the facilities and produce the materials necessary for deep space, deep sea and other national security uses to continue. We do not have the time and cannot afford to put off this important initiative.”Schiff’s amendment is supported by the American Physical Society, the American Institute for Physics, the American Geophysical Union and the American Astronomical Society.-30-
07.11.11	07.11.11 Bipartisan Calif. Congressional Delegation Calls on Veolia to Compensate Victims of Chatsworth Train Crash Washington—Members of California’s Congressional delegation today sent a letter to the Chairman of Veolia Environnement urging the company to adequately and fairly compensate the victims of the deadly train crash in Chatsworth on September 12, 2008. The catastrophic crash was caused by a Veolia employee who was text messaging before the collision that claimed the lives of 24 innocent people. At a hearing in May, Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Peter D. Lichtman stated that the $200 million fund established by Veolia and Metrolink (the train operator) to compensate victims is insufficient, and the burden of caring for many victims will therefore fall on the victims themselves and their communities. The bipartisan letter to Veolia Chairman Antoine Frérot said, “We are profoundly concerned that the long-term, devastating impacts on the victims may go unmet, and we are writing to ask that you step forward to ensure that victims receive justice. Veolia can stand behind a statutory $200 million damages cap and leave the innocent without just compensation, or it can step forward to ensure that no victim of this terrible tragedy is left unable to pay medical bills, stay in their home, or afford to send their children to college.” The letter was signed by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), and Representatives Elton Gallegly (R-24), Laura Richardson (D-37), Bob Filner (D-51), Grace Napolitano (D-38), Linda Sánchez (D-39), Henry Waxman(D-30), Howard Berman (D-28), Lois Capps (D-23), Adam Schiff (D-29), Loretta Sanchez (D-47), Buck McKeon (R-25), Susan Davis (D-53), Brad Sherman (D-27), Judy Chu (D-32), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-34).Full text of letter below: July 11, 2011Mr. Antoine FrérotChairmanBoard of DirectorsVeolia Environnement S.A.Paris, France Dear Mr. Frérot:As Members of the United States Congress, we are writing to express our deep concern that Veolia has not pledged sufficient funds to compensate the victims of the catastrophic train crash on September 12, 2008, in Chatsworth, California. We believe that the most important thing is to ensure that the victims and their families receive fair and full compensation. We are profoundly concerned that the long-term, devastating impacts on the victims may go unmet, and we are writing to ask that you step forward to ensure that victims receive justice. At a hearing on May 31, 2011, Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Peter D. Lichtman, who must determine the compensation for each victim of this tragedy, stated on the record that the damages from this crash already exceed $230 million, and he estimated that damages will reach at least $240 million before hearings are completed. Judge Lichtman explained that damages had reached these levels despite his best efforts to reduce all legitimate claims dramatically. He stated that a jury would have likely awarded most of the $450 million in claims made by victims in these cases. The Judge was clear: the $200 million fund set up by Veolia and Metrolink to compensate victims is insufficient. Thus, the burden of caring for many victims will fall on the victims themselves and their communities.As you are well aware, 24 completely innocent people were killed in the disaster and another 101 were injured. Many of the injured are permanently totally disabled and many more are permanently partially disabled. The lives of the survivors were irrevocably altered when, 22 seconds before impact, the locomotive engineer, employed by Veolia, sent the last of five text messages while operating the Metrolink train. In addition, he had received seven messages while on this route, and had used his cell phone to order lunch while on route. He had exchanged 45 text messages during the morning portion of his split shift. More than six weeks before the disaster, Veolia Transportation's upper management was warned about -- but failed to stop -- the engineer’s texting, which ranged from 25 to 180 texts each workday. According to the final Accident Report of the National Transportation Safety Board:“…the probable cause of the September 12, 2008, collision of a Metrolink commuter train and a Union Pacific freight train was the failure of the Metrolink engineer to observe and appropriately respond to the red signal aspect at Control Point Topanga because he was engaged in prohibited use of a wireless device, specifically text messaging, that distracted him from his duties.” -National Transportation Safety Board. 2010. Collision of Metrolink Train 111 With Union Pacific Train LOF65–12, Chatsworth, California, September 12, 2008. Railroad Accident Report NTSB/RAR-10/01. Washington, DC.In 2010, Mr. Mark Joseph, the Chief Executive Officer of your North American subsidiary, assured Members of Congress that Veolia genuinely believed that the $200 million provided by Veolia and Metrolink insurers would be sufficient to meet the needs of the Chatsworth victims. It is now abundantly clear that the victims of this accident have medical bills, lost income and other damages that exceed this amount. Thirteen months ago, British Petroleum’s Deepwater Horizon oil rig experienced a blowout. Eleven crewmen were killed, seventeen were injured and crude oil flowed into the Gulf of Mexico for months. Despite being protected by a statutory federal cap on damages, BP has voluntarily established a fund that could reach $20 billion to compensate victims. In BP’s own words, the firm was obliged to “make this right.”Veolia now has the same choice: it can stand behind a statutory $200 million damages cap and leave the innocent without just compensation, or it can step forward to ensure that no victim of this terrible tragedy is left unable to pay medical bills, stay in their home, or afford to send their children to college. We encourage you to consider contacting Judge Lichtman and offering to provide the funds necessary to provide victims with at least the minimum reduced awards. Increasing compensation to the crash victims would in no way alter Veolia’s legal obligations, but we believe it would do much to improve Veolia’s public image as a firm committed to its customers. It would be a profound demonstration that Veolia stands by the statement of Shelly Hall, Veolia’s Vice President of Safety and Security, that “At Veolia, caring for the safety of our employees and the passengers we serve, is the most important thing that we do every day.”We urge you to adequately and fairly compensate the victims whose lives have been destroyed by the actions and choices of your employees.Sincerely,Senator Dianne Feinstein Senator Barbara BoxerRepresentative Elton GalleglyRepresentative Laura RichardsonRepresentative Bob FilnerRepresentative Grace NapolitanoRepresentative Henry WaxmanRepresentative Howard BermanRepresentative Lois CappsRepresentative Adam SchiffRepresentative Loretta SanchezRepresentative Linda SánchezRepresentative Buck McKeonRepresentative Susan DavisRepresentative Brad ShermanRepresentative Judy ChuRepresentative Lucille Roybal-Allard ###
07.07.11	07.07.11 Schiff Statement on the Future of the Arab Spring and Syria Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) spoke on the House Floor about the future of the Arab Spring and the situation in Syria. See below for a transcript of his remarks. Click here to watch the video.Mr. Schiff: Mr. Speaker, there are moments in the lives of nations when existing order is suddenly revealed as bereft of legitimacy and no longer viable. The wave of unrest spreading across the Arab world, touched off by the self-immolation of a Tunisian fruit vendor tired of petty humiliation by a corrupt government, has exposed the rot of decades of caprice, corruption and incompetence. That this one man's desperate act could lead to the downfall of the governments of Tunisia, Egypt and, perhaps Yemen, is testament to the pent up frustration of millions of people who are denied the basic rights and economic opportunity that we take for granted here in the West.But it is in Syria, where the future of the Arab Spring seemingly hangs in the balance and where the security services have acted with the least restraint and maximum violence. Like marauding armies of old, select units of military and security services, troops have been moving from city to city in a quest to quash the ever-spreading demonstrations that have become a feature of life in Syria.Derra, a town of some 75,000 lying near the border with Jordan, has emerged as one of the centers of the Syrian uprising against the 40 years of rule by the Assad family. Army and security forces have repeatedly assaulted the town and surrounding villages, killing hundreds of civilians and arresting anyone suspected of taking part in demonstrations against the regime.On April 29 in the village of Jiza, the Syrian secret police rounded up anybody it thought was involved with the protests, including Hamza Ali al-Khateeb, who had gone to watch the demonstration with other members of his family. For a month, Hamza family waited for him to return, worried but hopeful he would be released unharmed.It was not to be.On May 30, his mutilated body was returned to them. He had been tortured, subjected to repeated electric shocks, and whipped with cables. His eyes were swollen and black, and there were identical bullet wounds where he had been apparently shot through both arms, the bullets lodging in his belly. On his chest was a deep, dark burn mark. His neck was broken and parts of his body were cut off.Hamza Ali al-Khateebwas 13 years old.Video of the boy's shattered body has been seen by millions on television and the internet, and Hamza, like the Tunisian fruit vendor who set himself alight, has become a symbol to his countrymen and the world of the depravity and illegitimacy of a regime that would torture its own children to death.Our ability to bring additional economic pressure on Syria is limited. Its economy is already under immense strain. It is small, weak and isolated. Political pressure in the form of a U.N. Security Resolution condemning the violence and crackdown has been blocked by Russia and China, and there's dread over what will happen when Assad falls.Given the internal divisions between Sunni and Shi`iaMuslims, Christians and Druse, the confessional and sectarian splits are as pronounced as in Lebanon, the potential for large scale violence as great as Iraq. The dangers are real, but the promise of what began in Tunisia and is now materializing in Egypt and elsewhere is also real. People of courage can determine their own destiny and it need not be one of hereditary dictatorship, kleptocracy or lack of opportunity and stagnation.In the Arab world as elsewhere, people should be free to choose their own government to represent them and to chart a path of peace with their neighbors. To conclude otherwise means that we relegate tens of millions of people to suffer of capricious ruthlessness of their despots for generation after generation or we're willing to trade the illusion of stability for the harsh reality of their suffering. That’s not the choice we made for ourselves 235 years ago and it is not one that we should presume to make for others.Bashar al-Assad is a ruthless tyrant whose time has passed and who clings to power by only by virtue of brutal force. Our role and that of the international community should be to work with Syrian opposition figures and others to advance a negotiated transition to a new Syrian government that will represent all Syrians and prevent the trading in of one set of thugs for another.The Arab Spring cannot be allowed to fail because of brutal repression, the specter of religious fanaticism, a fear of the unknown or the cynicism born of unmet expectations.The region's many millions must have the freedom to write a new chapter for themselves and their posterity.I thank the Speaker and yield back the balance of my time.-30-
07.01.11	07.01.11 Schiff Statement Marking the 45th Anniversary of the Implementation of Medicare Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the 45th anniversary of the implementation of Medicare:“Forty-five years ago, President Johnson signed Medicare into law, and the Medicare program began to be implemented on July 1, 1966. Medicare has transformed life for millions of seniors in this country, providing them with economic and health care security.“Before Medicare, only 51 percent of Americans 65 and older had health care coverage. Today, thanks to Medicare, virtually all Americans 65 and older have health care coverage. Before Medicare, nearly 30 percent of seniors lived below the poverty line. Today 7.5 percent of seniors live below the poverty line. In addition, under Medicare, Americans’ life expectancy has been significantly improved.“In April, the House passed Budget Chairman Ryan’s plan to convert Medicare into a voucher or premium support program, where seniors would get a subsidy to go out and buy private insurance if they are able. I opposed this dramatic and flawed change to the nature of Medicare, and the legislation has been stopped in the Senate.“I will continue fighting this plan and remain committed to meeting our obligations to the nation’s seniors, while responsibly balancing our books and paying off our debts. And I will be working hard to preserve and strengthen Medicare to ensure it is there for future generations of Americans.”Each year, Rep. Schiff helps hundreds of residents who are having problems with their Social Security and Medicare benefits. If you have had trouble dealing with the Social Security Administration (SSA)or the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Rep. Schiff’s office may be able to help. Please contact the Pasadenaoffice at (626) 304-2727.According to the Privacy Act of 1974, in order for Rep. Schiff to assist you, written authorization is needed. Please complete the Casework Authorization Form and return it to Rep. Schiff's office.-30-
06.22.11	06.22.11 Bill to Dedicate Pasadena Post Office to First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Passes Out of Committee Washington, DC –Today, legislation introduced by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) to designate the U.S. Postal Service office located at 281 E. Colorado Boulevard in Pasadena as the “First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Post Office” passed out of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The legislation will honor and pay tribute to the more than 50 years of service that Oliver Goodall provided to the community and country as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker. The legislation now awaits a vote on the House floor.“Oliver Goodall was a great patriot, always exhibiting perseverance in the face of adversity,” Rep. Schiff said. “His courageous life story, as well as his legacy of service lives on and inspires us all. His dedication to helping others had a truly positive impact on our community, and for that we are very fortunate.”Goodall entered the service at Tuskegee in February 1943. In October 1944, he graduated as a multi-engine pilot and was assigned to the 477th Bomber Group at Godman Field, Kentucky, in January 1945, where he attained his First Pilots rating in six months. Goodall was among 60 African American U.S. Army Air Corps officers arrested for trying to peacefully integrate an all-white officers’ club, which came to be known as the Freeman Field Mutiny. The ‘mutiny’ was an important step toward full integration of all U.S. armed forces worldwide in June 1949, serving as a model for later Civil Rights efforts to integrate public facilities.“For more than 50 years, my grandfather served our community as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker, and dedicating the post office in his name is a great joy and an honor for our family,” said Tony Goodall. “I hope that by paying tribute to my grandfather, this will serve as a reminder, not only to our family and friends, but also to our neighbors about the importance of service, as well as an inspiration for young men and women that their contributions to society really will make a difference.”-30-
06.21.11	06.21.11 Schiff Statement on Fee Diversion Provision of the America Invents Act Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) released the following statement on the Fee Diversion Provision included in the Manager’s Amendment to the America Invents Act:“The biggest problem with our patent system is the large and onerous backlog of patent applications. This backlog stifles innovation and undermines our economic competitiveness. The underlying bill ended the practice of fee diversion which has robbed the patent office of nearly $1 billion in patent fees that could have been used to solve this problem. Unfortunately, the compromise reached on fee diversion is not strong enough to end the practice of fee diversion, which hamstrings the PTO. By not providing a compelling mechanism to prevent Congress from repurposing patent fees towards other priorities, there is no assurance that the PTO will have sufficient resources to reduce the patent backlog or implement the many new provisions contained in the America Invents Act.”Schiff serves on the powerful House Appropriations Committee, which is responsible for setting all funding priorities for the federal government. He currently sits on the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.-30-
06.16.11	06.16.11 Schiff Introduces Legislation to Bolster Egyptian and Tunisian Move Toward Democracy Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced legislation to help Egypt and Tunisia as they transition to democracy by promoting the strengthening their private sectors Specifically, the legislation will encourage joint ventures with the U.S. and Egypt and Tunisia, providing technical assistance, strategic advice and support to private entrepreneurs, as well as small- and medium-sized businesses.“This is a once in a generational moment, potentially one of the most promising that we have seen in decades, in which the U.S. has an historic opportunity to help people in the Arab world achieve a measure of democracy and self-determination,“ Rep. Schiff said. "We have a deep interest in the success of the Arab Spring, and must do all we can to encourage its forward progress."Through the Egyptian-American Enterprise Fund and the Tunisian-American Enterprise Fund, the U.S. government will help to fill a temporary gap in private financing and investment resulting from political uncertainties. The legislation will help to stabilize the economies in Egypt and Tunisia, and assist U.S. businesses by encouraging new partnerships and collaboration.“The greatest untapped resource in the Middle East and North Africa is the talent of its people,” President Obama said in a speech on May 19. “Just as democratic revolutions can be triggered by a lack of individual opportunity, successful democratic transitions depend upon an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity… We’re working with Congress to create Enterprise Funds to invest in Tunisia and Egypt. And these will be modeled on funds that supported the transitions in Eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. OPIC will soon launch a $2 billion facility to support private investment across the region. And we will work with the allies to refocus the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development so that it provides the same support for democratic transitions and economic modernization in the Middle East and North Africa as it has in Europe.”Senators John Kerry (D-MA), John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (I-CT) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate.-30-
06.15.11	06.15.11 Appropriations Committee Passes Energy and Water Legislation Washington, DC – Today, the House Energy and Water Appropriations Committee passed legislation to fund the Department of Energy (DOE), but sharply reduced the investment in cutting edge research into new technologies. Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) offered an amendment to the bill that would have restored funding for Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), a revolutionary arm of DOE started in 2009 to pursue high-risk, high-reward research on energy.Schiff's amendment was supported by Caltech, MIT, the University of California and over 50 leading universities, as well as the CEO's of many of America's leading companies. Unfortunately, the amendment failed by voice vote. As a result, the ARPA-E will be cut 82%, providing scarce resources to replace scientists leaving at the end of their term and hamstringing the agency.“With unrest in the Middle East and increasing demand for energy in China, we need all of the revolutionary energy ideas we can get,” Rep. Schiff said. “As we cut spending to return the budget to balance, we must not cut those programs that are vital to our economic future and national security. ARPA-E is just such an agency, bringing in some of the brightest people in the country for two or three years to help pioneer America's energy innovation and future. These cuts couldn't be more short-sighted."Other DOE energy research programs focus on maturing technologies that can be deployed soon, and don’t have the vital collaborations with industry and academia that are present at ARPA-E. ARPA-E is modeled after the highly successful Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), which has produced famously successful inventions for the Department of Defense, and the nation, perhaps most notably the Internet. A key element of both agencies is that managers are limited to fixed terms, so that new blood continuously revitalizes the research portfolio.Compared with the White House request, the bill will provide $1.9 billion less for DOE's energy efficiency and renewable energy office, and $616 million less for its science office.-30-
06.14.11	06.14.11 Schiff and Dold Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Recognizing the Armenian Genocide Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan House Resolution with Rep. Robert Dold (R-IL) recognizing and commemorating the Armenian Genocide in the House of Representatives. The resolution calls on the President and the U.S. Government to properly recognize and commemorate the atrocities that occurred in Armenia beginning in 1915, and which resulted in the death of 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children, as genocide.“The facts of history are clear, well documented and non-negotiable – 1.5 million Armenians were deliberately murdered in the first genocide of the 20th century,” Rep. Schiff said. “If we are to prevent future atrocities, we must condemn genocide whenever and wherever it occurs. It has never served our national interest to be complicit in another nation's campaign of genocide denial, and it never will. While there are still some survivors left, we have a compelling, urgent and moral obligation to speak plainly about the past.”It has been 96 years since the systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign was launched by the government of the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than 20 nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades.“The United States has a duty to remember those who have no voice,” Rep. Dold said. “Ninety-six years ago 1.5 million people were killed simply because they were Armenian. I’ve personally heard stories from Armenian-Americans in my district who lost loved ones during the Armenian genocide. This appalling tragedy should not be ignored; rather, as a nation that fights for justice it is only fitting that the United States honestly recognize the Armenian Genocide and the victims so that together we can help prevent future genocides.” Bolstering his efforts to achieve justice and human rights in the region, Rep. Schiff has also joined in co-sponsoring a second resolution introduced today by Reps. Ed Royce and Howard Berman, calling on the government of Turkey to end religious discrimination, to cease all restrictions on gatherings for religious prayer and education, and to return stolen church property.“By expropriating church properties, harassing worshippers, and refusing to grant full legal status to members of the Christian faith, the Republic of Turkey is violating its obligation to uphold basic freedoms that are the foundation of justice and peace worldwide,” Rep. Schiff said.The Republic of Turkey is a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which requires “freedom of thought, conscience and religion.” While Turkey considers itself a secular democracy, the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom has identified the Republic as one of the world’s leading violators of religious freedom.“Christians constitute less than 1 percent of Turkey’s population, placing them in an especially vulnerable position,” Rep. Schiff said. “This resolution will help to promote religious equality by shining a light on the unacceptable violations and intolerance of religious freedom in Turkey.”-30-
06.01.11	06.01.11 Former Schiff Intern Captures Big Win on Jeopardy! Washington, DC– Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) is proud to acknowledge the accomplishment of former intern Tom Brown, on his big Jeopardy win. Brown served as an intern in the Congressman's Washington, DC office in the summer of 2006. While simultaneously juggling an internship and coursework at Princeton University, Brown demonstrated a strong work ethic and intellect that served him well in preparing for his big win in Jeopardy.“It is wonderful to see our interns move on to succeed in life as impassioned educators, entrepreneurs, businessmen, policy makers, or in Tom Brown’s case, a Jeopardy winner!” exclaimed Schiff. “Witnessing the successes of members of our team reminds me of how fortunate I am to be working with such unique and talented individuals. This is a great achievement for Tom, and I hope he continues to thrive in all of his future endeavors.”Brown currently works as a special assistant to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski.-30-
06.01.11	06.01.11 Schiff Condemns Murder of Pakistani Journalist Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) released the following statement after reports that Asia Times Online’s Pakistan bureau chief Syed Saleem Shahzad was found tortured and slain yesterday near the town of Mandi Bahauddin, about 75 miles southeast of Islamabad:“I am deeply distressed and saddened by the news that Asia Times Online’s Pakistan bureau chief Syed Saleem Shahzad was found tortured and slain yesterday about 75 miles southeast of Islamabad.“For months Shahzad had expressed to colleagues that he feared for his life, as he had been warned by intelligence agents to stop writing about sensitive matters.“The 40-year-old went missing on Sunday, two days after he published an article claiming Al Qaeda had infiltrated the Pakistani navy and asserting that the May 22 siege on a naval base in Karachi, which resulted in the death of 10 security personnel, was carried out by militants in retaliation after the military refused to release a group of naval officials suspected of having militant ties.“Reporting is a dangerous business, especially for journalists reporting on militant groups in Pakistan, the intelligence community and potential links between the two. My thoughts and prayers are with Shahzad's family and friends in their time of loss and sorrow, and I strongly condemn this brave journalist’s death.“Tragically, Shahzad’s death is just the latest in a long series of beatings and murders of journalists in Pakistan, which the Committee to Protect Journalists listed as the world's most dangerous country for reporters in 2010. Last year alone, eight journalists were killed in the country, and Shahzad was the third reporter to be slain in Pakistan this year.“Unfortunately, Pakistan’s constitution, in addition to other legislation, such as the Official Secrets Act, authorizes the government to stem freedom of speech on a myriad of issues, from the constitution itself, to the armed forces, the judiciary, and religion.“These principles violate international law, which clearly guarantees freedom of expression and the right to a free press. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, I urge the Pakistani government to undertake all efforts to ensure the safety of journalists within its borders, in addition to a full, independent and transparent investigation into the death of Shahzad.“Governments throughout the region and elsewhere in the world must protect journalists and allow them to do their work without having to fear being harassed or detained, or worse.“A free and open media is an essential guarantor of human rights. The censorship, intimidation, imprisonment, and murder of journalists violate not only their personal liberty, but also the rights of those who are denied access to these ideas and information.“The Pakistani government must make every effort to bring Shahzad’s killer to justice, as the failure to prosecute individuals who have carried out crimes against journalists contributes to that nation’s climate of intolerance and impunity.”-30-
06.01.11	06.01.11 Schiff Welcomes Councilmember Jacque Robinson to Nation's Capitol for 2011 Young Elected Officials Network National Convention Washington, DC- Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) is honored to welcome Pasadena Councilmember Jacque Robinson to a four-day 2011 Young Elected Officials (YEO) Network National Convening. As a young elected official attending the largest assembly of elected leaders in the country younger than 35 years old, Robinson will have the opportunity to shadow Rep. Schiff for the day and exchange ideas with 200 peers who share similar aspirations for their communities. The convention will challenge leaders to identify issues and generate solutions facing their respective communities.“Jacque is a terrific councilmember and a great example of the next generation of political leaders in our community and country,” Rep. Schiff said. “By networking with fellow young leaders and being exposed to different policy development organizations and think tanks, these young elected officials will continue to demonstrate the leadership skills necessary to ensure a strong future for our communities.”“The importance of the YEO program is to have unity with other Young Elected Officials from around the country and to demonstrate that we have a voice in the political process on all different levels, from local to state governments across the nation,” Robinson said. “I look forward to shadowing Congressman Adam Schiff to experience his work in action, and observe how he puts the needs of our district first and advocates for residents of the 29th district.”-30-
05.26.11	05.26.11 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils "2011 International Piracy Watch List" Washington, D.C.: At a press conference today the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA), unveiled the “2011 International Piracy Watch List.” In an effort to combat international copyright piracy by calling attention to countries where piracy has reached alarming levels, the Caucus announced they will closely monitor the serious problems of copyright piracy in the following five countries: Canada, China, Russia, Spain, and Ukraine. To read the full report, click here.The advent of digital technology holds the promise of a golden age for movies, music, video games and other forms of entertainment. More new devices for watching, listening to, recording, sharing and saving music and movies have emerged in the last decade than in the previous 100 years. And these technologies are a key to American economic growth: indeed, the combined copyright industries – movies, home video and television programming, music, books, video games and software – generate more revenues than any other single manufacturing sector, including automobiles and auto parts, aircraft and agriculture.Disturbingly, however, an explosion in piracy and a diminution in copyright protection have accompanied these exciting new advances in entertainment technology. Organized crime has become heavily involved in foreign DVD and CD piracy. Criminals are using the same formidable distribution network and resources that were developed for drug trafficking and arms smuggling. The result, in these and other countries, is a virtual evisceration of the legitimate market for American entertainment.Senator Whitehouse said, “Our trading partners must stop looking the other way when American intellectual property is stolen in plain sight. They must encourage fair economic competition rather than permit online and physical piracy and counterfeiting to flourish within their borders. If they do not, our nation will pay the price in reduced American jobs, dampened American creativity, and, through reductions in licensing fees and corporate profits, cuts into the American tax base.”Recent industry estimates point to piracy rates in excess of 90% in some countries, with annual losses to copyright industries in the billions. Even more alarmingly, that global piracy rates on the Internet are estimated at 95%, with piracy rates in some countries such as Russia and China as high as 99%.“Today’s global markets are inseparably connected to the Internet,”said Senator Hatch. “While it has given consumers more choices with access to more goods and services than ever before, it has also caused online theft to thrive as well. We must come together to combat this threat in a truly systematic and coordinated manner. The Country Watch List is a much-needed tool in that fight to stop online and copyright piracy.”The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus will focus on copyright piracy problems in Canada, China, Russia, Spain, and Ukraine. These countries make the Watch List because of the scope and depth of their piracy problems, which cost U.S. copyright industries and millions of Americans who work in these companies billions of dollars, and because piracy in these countries is largely the result of a lack of political will to confront the problem. Recently, the U.S. International Trade Commission estimated that U.S. businesses lost nearly $50 billion in 2009 due to intellectual property violations in China alone.Congressman Goodlatte said,“The ever-increasing problem of piracy denies individuals who have invested in the creation and production of these goods a return on their investment thus reducing the incentive to invest in innovative products and new creative works. The end result is the loss of billions of dollars in revenue for the U.S. each year and even greater losses to our economy in terms of reduced job growth and exports. We must encourage other countries to enact and enforce strong intellectual property laws in order to fully protect America’s inventors and authors, as well as their own.”Last year, the Caucus highlighted that pirate websites rely on payment processors to facilitate transactions. This year, the Caucus is focusing in on sites that are gaining traffic by illegally providing copyrighted files and are able to generate revenues by placing ads on their pages. “American entrepreneurs invest their time, money and talent into creating the next must-have music, film and technology, and justly expect to be compensated by the market, both at home and overseas,” Congressman Schiff said. “To assure the continued creation and distribution of music, movies, software and books, from which we all benefit, we must ensure that our artists, creators and producers are paid for their work. We are calling on responsible advertisers, search engines, internet service providers, and other parts of the internet ecosystem to work with us to protect the hard work of American creators from piracy.”The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which was originally formed in 2003, is made up of over 65 members of Congress. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.###
05.25.11	05.25.11 House Approves Schiff Measure Requiring Health Assessment of Military Use of Burn Pits Washington, DC- Today, as the House considered the National Defense Authorization bill for FY 2012, the chamber approved a measure offered by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) requiring the Secretary of Defense to submit reports to Congress on the health impacts on our troops when waste is disposed of in open-air burn pits. While burn pits have been an expedient method of disposing waste at operating bases in Iraq and Afghanistan, the types of materials that have been burned produce hazardous toxins, such as carcinogens that are produced when plastics are burned.“The short and long term affects of exposure to toxins released from open-air burn pits have yet to be determined, but could be injuring the respiratory systems of our troops,” Rep. Schiff said. “This amendment will help to ensure the safety and health of our brave men and women in uniform who risk their lives each day as they serve and protect the nation.”A Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, published in October 2010, concluded that the military relied heavily on open air burn pits in both Iraq and Afghanistan. There are still 78 open air burn pits operating at bases in close proximity to U.S. Military personnel. Furthermore, the operators of the burn pits have not always followed relevant guidance to protect service members from exposure to harmful emissions, according to GAO.GAO also concluded that U.S. troops in Afghanistan and Iraq did not sample or monitor burn pit emissions as required by U.S. Central Command, stating that "the health impacts of burn pit exposure on individuals are not well understood, partly because the military does not collect required data on emissions or exposures from burn pits."Under Rep. Schiff’s amendment, each health assessment report submitted to the Senate and House Committees on Armed Services will be required to include a description of short and long term health risks; methodology used to determine the health risks; and the assessment of the operational and health risks when making the determination to continue the use of open-air burn pits for waste disposal.-30-
05.24.11	05.24.11 Four Southern California Congressmen Meet With More Than 200 Pro-Israel Activists From Los Angeles County Washington, D.C. – Together, Representatives Henry Waxman (CA-30), Howard Berman (CA-28), Brad Sherman (CA-27), and Adam Schiff (CA-29) met with more than two hundred pro-Israel activists from Los Angeles visiting Washington, DC for the annual AIPAC Policy Conference. Today’s meeting, which is an annual event that coincides with AIPAC’s policy conference, provided these four members of Congress the opportunity to speak directly with their local constituents on how to strengthen US-Israel relations.To view photos of the meeting, please click HERE.“This was a remarkable group of Californians dedicated to advancing the security and partnership of the United States and Israel. Their energy and commitment are more important than ever as Israel faces challenging times,” said Rep. Henry Waxman.“I’m honored to be joined by so many fellow Californians who share my deep concern for the State of Israel and my firm support for US-Israeli ties. Together we discussed the importance of a nuclear weapons-free Iran, the regional threats Israel is facing, and challenges in restarting the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. I look forward to continuing to work with my fellow Californians to ensure Israel’s security,” added Rep. Howard Berman.“It was outstanding to see so many constituents and others from Los Angeles here for the AIPAC Conference today. These people who have travelled from the other side of the country are a testament to the strength of the pro-Israel movement in LA and across the country. Those who made the trip have played an indispensible role in building support for new Iran sanctions legislation and other priorities,” noted Rep. Brad Sherman.“This is a moment of promise and peril for Israel and the region, and today was a great opportunity to engage in a dialogue with some of Israel’s strongest supporters in California to get their input on how best to ensure the security of our friend and ally, and bring peace to the Middle East,” stated Rep. Adam Schiff.###
05.23.11	05.23.11 Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus to Unveil 2011 Country Watch List WHEN: Thursday, May 26th, 9:30 a.m.WHERE: SVC 203/202 of the U.S. Capitol Visitor CenterWHAT: The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse and Orrin Hatch and Representatives Bob Goodlatte and Adam B. Schiff, will host a press conference to unveil he countries on the 2011 watch list of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus.Members of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus will be joined by Mitch Bainwol, Chairman & CEO of the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), Michael Gallagher, President & CEO of the Entertainment Software Association (ESA), Robert Holleyman, President & CEO of the Business Software Alliance (BSA) and David Israelite, President & CEO of the National Music Publishers’ Association (NMPA). -30-
05.02.11	05.02.11 Schiff statement on the death of Osama bin Laden Washington, DC - Tonight, Rep. Adam Schiff released the following statement:"At long last, the world is rid of a despicable mass murderer and the victims of September 11th have obtained a measure of justice. This is a tremendous day for the men and women of our armed forces, our intelligence agencies and all Americans."I would like to offer congratulations to President Obama, his national security team and to the team that executed the operation. As a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I have been privileged to work with the men and women of our Intelligence Community. Their dedication and professionalism are extraordinary."This is not the end of the struggle against al Qaeda, and we must redouble our vigilance in the days ahead. But after a decade of waiting, this is wonderful news."-30-
04.27.11	04.27.11 Rep. Adam Schiff Serves as Guest Teacher for Teach For America Week Pasadena, CA – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) served as a guest teacher at Washington Middle School during Teach For America Week, which engages local leaders in support of the movement to expand educational opportunity. As a guest teacher in the classroom, Rep. Schiff hoped to inspire students with lessons that connect the curriculum to real life.“It was a pleasure to serve as a guest teacher today at Washington Middle School,” Rep. Schiff said. “One of the greatest American ideals is that hard work yields rewards — that when children are given the opportunities they deserve, they can and do excel. In dedicating their talents and time to educating our students, Teach For America corps members and alumni make positive and lasting impacts on student achievement, helping to address the most critical needs in education.” Teach For America is the national corps of recent college graduates who commit to teach for two years in urban and rural public schools and become lifelong leaders in expanding educational opportunity. This year, 8,200 corps members are teaching in 39 regions across the country while more than 20,000 Teach For America alumni continue working from inside and outside the field of education for the fundamental changes necessary to ensure educational excellence and equity. For more information, visit www.teachforamerica.org.-30-
04.26.11	04.26.11 Schiff to Host, Moderate Station Fire Update Pasadena, CA - Since the Station Fire hit Southern California in August 2009, devastating 250 square miles, killing two firefighters and leaving many people homeless, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) has worked with local fire agencies, the US Forest Service and many others to learn from what went wrong in the effort to extinguish the fire and implement changes to make sure those mistakes are not repeated. There has been some progress, although much more needs to be done, and Rep. Schiff is hosting a meeting with representatives of the Forest Service and the Government Accountability Office at the Altadena Library to inform residents about these efforts. Moderator: Congressman SchiffSpeakers: Tom Harbour, Director of Fire and Aviation, U.S. Forest ServiceStephen Gaty, Assistant Director, Government Accountability Office, Natural Resources and Environment TeamWhen: Thursday, April 28, 10:30 a.m. – 12 p.m.Where: Altadena Library, 600 East Mariposa St., Altadena, CA 91001 -30-
04.13.11	04.13.11 Rep. Schiff Urges President Obama to Properly Acknowledge the Armenian Genocide Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) sent a letter to President Obama urging him to properly characterize the murder of 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children as “genocide” in his statement marking the April 24 anniversary of the start of the genocide.“Mr. President, you have always been a leader on the important issue of human rights,” Rep. Schiff said. “Unfortunately, both last year and in 2009, you did not use the term ‘genocide’ to describe the events of 1915-23. I ask you to return to the clarity you so forcefully expressed in 2008, and stand with the ever-dwindling number of survivors, as well as the descendants of others, who survived the Armenian Genocide and continue to suffer the ‘double killing’ of denial, by referring to it as a genocide.”On Sunday, it will have been 96 years since the systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign was launched by the government of the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than 20 nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades.In the last Congress, Rep. Schiff was the primary sponsor of H. Res. 252, the Affirmation of the U.S. Record on the Armenian Genocide, which would have recognized and commemorated the genocide.Below is the full text of the letter sent to President Obama:The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, DCDear Mr. President:As the proud Representative of the largest Armenian-American community in the country, I urge you to properly characterize the murder of 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children as “genocide” in your annual statement marking the April 24 anniversary of the start of the Armenian Genocide.Ninety-six years ago this month, in the spring of 1915, the government of the Ottoman Empire launched a campaign against its Armenian population. Wholesale massacres, forced marches through blistering deserts, rapes, and looting were visited upon the Armenians of eastern Anatolia. By the time the killings ended in 1923, one and a half million Armenians were dead and the world’s oldest Christian nation had been shattered – with its survivors scattered around the world. Before becoming President, you spoke repeatedly of the massacres of Armenians at the hands of the Ottoman government as genocide, a view shared by the overwhelming majority of historians, including some notable Turkish historians. The Armenian Genocide has also been recognized by many local and state governments here in the United States and by many governments around the world.Unfortunately, both last year and in 2009, you did not use the term “genocide” to describe the events of 1915-23. Perhaps hoping that by holding off on recognition, some in the Administration believed that the United States could catalyze a possible reconciliation between Armenia and Turkey. It is clear now that the Protocols process was a gambit by Ankara to prevent the Administration from using the word “genocide,” and to forestall consideration of a genocide resolution by the Congress. Turkey’s professed desire for reconciliation with Armenia was illusory. Now that the truth has been revealed, I ask you to return to the clarity you so forcefully expressed in 2008.Mr. President, you have always been a leader on the important issue of human rights. I urge you to stand with the ever-dwindling number of survivors, as well as the descendants of others, who survived the Armenian Genocide and continue to suffer the “double killing” of denial, by referring to it as a genocide. -30-
04.08.11	04.08.11 Schiff Statement on the Potential Government Shutdown Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (CA-29) released the following statement on the potential government shutdown:“I am still hopeful that a government shutdown can be avoided, and I am doing everything possible to call for a responsible resolution on the amount of spending cuts. It would be a terrible result, however, if policy riders unrelated to our budget were permitted to derail the budget negotiations. A shutdown will be harmful to our economic recovery and would represent a tragic outcome for the country. Under that circumstance, I have asked my staff to continue working without pay, so that we can meet the needs of constituents dependent on Social Security, Medicare, the Veterans Administration or other federal assistance. Moreover, if federal employees do not get paid, no Member of Congress should, and I will be donating my salary to charitable causes in my district.”How Does the Shutdown Affect You?Services will continue that are deemed essential for the safety of human life and the protection of property. This includes the armed forces, border patrol, police, fire fighting and federal workers who provide medical care on the job. The Postal Service and the Federal Reserve, which are both self-funded, will also continue to operate. During the last shutdown in 1996, the shutdown also delayed bankruptcy cases.In the event of a shutdown, the government will temporarily stop all "non-essential" services. However, "essential services" will continue to operate, such as those listed above. Other federal agencies may cut their services to a bare minimum, and are determining which of their services fall under these rules. Disaster Response—Disaster Response is not affected by the shutdown.Federal Courts—Federal courts are not affected by the shutdown and remain open.IRS—Tax forms still need to be postmarked by Monday, April 18 (Patriots Day is not a federal holiday and you can no longer send forms to the IRS for processing). Electronic tax returns will be processed, but paper returns will not be, which could delay receipt of a refund. Medicare—Benefits for this program are also exempt from the shutdown, so current participants should not notice any disruption. However, new applications could be delayed.National Parks—National Park Service grounds, museums, and monuments will close, disrupting educational visits and vacation plans.Social Security—Benefits for this critical program do not go through the appropriations process, so they should continue being deposited into recipient accounts or mailed to their homes. However, staff cuts may delay other services such as enrolling new participants, holding hearings, or resolving problems.Unemployment—If the shutdown continued for an extended period, the federal funds that help states pay the costs of their unemployment programs could run out, which would require the state to step in and advance the money to keep their programs running. Otherwise, benefits would be reduced or stopped. Veterans—VHA hospitals will stay open and VBA disability compensation will be paid, however the last government shutdown saw many veterans' benefits cut or reduced.Visas and Passports—Prior shutdowns have kept new visa and passport applications from being processed. Embassies will remain open for services for American citizens, but will not conduct visa interviews. How Does the Shutdown Affect Government Workers? Most non-essential government employees will be furloughed from their jobs, only a few exempt employees will be allowed to come into work. Federal employees who are furloughed will not receive pay. Additionally, federal contractors will not be paid during this time and will not be eligible for back pay. Even if you want to work unpaid, federal law prohibits the government from accepting volunteer work.Related Websites & ArticlesU.S. Office of Personnel Management - "Guidance and Information on Furlough"Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget - "Planning for Agency Operations During a Lapse in Government Funding" Congressional Research Service - "Shutdown of the Federal Government: Causes, Processes and Effects"Sighting Plans in Washington, DC?Washington Post: Shutdown Plan Details-30-
04.08.11	04.08.11 A Note to Constituents with Upcoming Visits to Washington, DC Greetings!As you have probably heard by now, budget negotiations are continuing here in D.C. but if they are not completed by Friday at midnight the government will be shutting down. Unfortunately, this means that all the Smithsonian museums will be closed and all White House tours will be canceled. For a list of other ways the shutdown will impact tourists in D.C., check out this link to the Washington Post: http://goo.gl/tPdDiYou may be curious about what will happen to your Capitol tour, as well. At this point, we have been informed that we will not be able to conduct tours during the shutdown. The Capitol, including the Capitol Visitors Center, will be closed to visitors. I wish there was something more we could do because I know you are traveling a great distance and you deserve to see all the wonderful things our Capital has to offer!To that end, though most of the attractions in D.C. will be affected by the shutdown, it is still a major city with plenty of other things to see and do. Please find a list of things to do in D.C. that will not be affected by the shutdown below. I encourage you to still go to the National Monuments at the National Mall or walk around the tidal basin and see the cherry blossoms!Hopefully this information will not be necessary, but please feel free to contact our office with any questions you may have.PatriciaStaff AssistantCongressman Adam Schiff Corcoran GallerySummary: The Corcoran Gallery of Art is the largest non-federal museum in Washington, focusing on American art. Guided tours available.Address: 500 17th St NWMetro:Farragut West (Blue, Orange), Farragut North (Red)Hours: 10am-5pm Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, 10am-9pm Thursday, CLOSED Monday and TuesdayCosts: $10 adults, $8 seniors/students, children under 12 free Daughters of the American Revolution Museum Summary: The DAR Museum is comprised of 31 period rooms and 2 galleries.The collection consists of over 30,000 decorative and fine arts objects spanning the 18th and 19th centuries.Tour Length: 45 minutes.Address: 1776 D Street, NW. Two blocks from the White House.Closest Metro Stop: Farragut West (Blue and Orange Lines)Hours: GUIDED TOURS: Groups of 9 or less: Free tours on the hour and half-hour Monday through Friday 10 AM to 2:30 PM and Saturday 9 AM to 4:30 PM. Groups of 10 or more: Reservations are required with a fee of $3 per person. Tours are on the hour and half-hour Monday through Friday 10 AM to 2:30 PM.SELF -GUIDED TOURS: Anytime Monday through Friday 9:30 AM to 4 PM and Saturday 9 AM to 5 PM. Self-guided groups of 10 or more are asked to notify the museum of their planned visit at 202-879-3341 or email museum@dar.org.Notes: For more information call (202) 628-1776 or visit http://www.dar.org/museum/. Folger Shakespeare Library Tour Summary: Home to the world’s largest Shakespeare collection.Address: 201 East Capitol Street, SEClosest Metro Stops: Union Station (Red Line) or Capitol South (Blue and Orange Lines)Hours: The library is open to the public Monday through Saturday from 10 AM – 5 PM, but is closed on all federal holidays. Docent tours of the building and the current exhibition are available Monday through Friday at 11 AM -3 PM and on Saturday at 11 AM and 1 PM. Docent tours of the Elizabethan Garden are available every third Saturday of the month, from April through October, at 10 AM and 11 AM.Costs: Free.How to Request a Tour: Group tours are available for both school groups and adult groups, and must be arranged in advance. Please call the Education department at (202) 675-0395.Notes: If you have any questions call (202) 675-0309 before 8:45 AM and (202)544-4600 from 8:45 AM - 4:45 PM. To learn about a performance or event, call (202) 544-7077.Website: www.folger.edu George Washington Masonic MemorialSummary:A massive memorial and museum to George Washington dedicated by the Freemasons.Address: 101 Callahan Drive, AlexandriaMetro: King StreetHours: Monday-Saturday 9-4, Sunday 12-4. Guided tours availableCost: Free International Spy Museum Tour Summary: The only public museum in the world solely dedicated to the tradecraft, history, and contemporary role of espionage. The Museum’s permanent exhibition presents the tradecraft of espionage through the stories of individuals and their missions, tools and techniques. Exhibits feature the largest collection of international espionage artifacts ever on public display – many for the first time.Address: The entire city block between 9th and 8th Streets at 800 F Street, NWClosest Metro Stop: Gallery Place/Chinatown Metro (Green, Yellow, & Red Lines)Hours: All tickets are date and time specific. Advance tickets are highly recommended and can be purchased at www.ticketmaster.com.Costs: Adult (ages 12-64): $18, Seniors (55+) and Active Duty Military & Intel Community: $17, Children (ages 5-11): $15, Children age 4 and under are free.How to Request a Tour: Groups of 20 or more qualify for Group Admission and require advance reservations which can be made by calling (202) 393-7798Notes: The Museum is closed Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and New Year’s Day. On occasion the Museum closes earlier than regular visiting hours. Such early closings will be posted at www.spymuseum.org. Kreeger MuseumSummary: The National Museum of Crime & Punishment, located in downtown Washington, D.C., includes a crime scene lab, the filming studios for Americas Most WantedAddress: 2401 Foxhall Rd NWMetro: .75 miles to D5/D6 Metrobus stop.Hours: Guided Tours, Tues. - Fri. at 10:30 am and 1:30 pm (reservations required). Open hours are Saturday from 10 am - 4 pm, no reservations required.Cost: $10, $7 students Mount Vernon Tour Summary: A privately owned estate and garden, once the home of George and Martha Washington. In the 18th century the estate, gardens, and farm totaled 8,000 acres. Today, 500 acres have been preserved. Visitors can see 20 structures and 50 acres of gardens as they existed in 1799. In addition, one can see the tombs of George and Martha Washington, Washington’s greenhouse, a memorial to the accomplishments of 18th century slaves and a museum.Address: 3200 Mount Vernon Memorial Highway, Mount Vernon, Virginia 22121. About 16 miles south of Washington, DC.Closest Metro Stop: Huntington Station (Yellow Line) to Fairfax Connector Bus.Hours: Open every day of the year. April - August 8 AM - 5 PM; March, September, October 9 AM – 4 PM; November - February 9 AM – 4 PM.Costs: Adults $15, Seniors $14 (62+), Children (ages 6-11) $7, Children 5 and under are free. A shuttle to the Pioneer Farm Site is available from March 11 to November.Restrictions: No food or drink except for bottled water is allowed. Gum, strollers and motorized scooters are not allowed in the mansion. Dogs are allowed but must be on a leash.How to Request a Tour: Contact (703) 780-2000 or www.mountvernon.org. National Cathedral Tour Summary: One can see the dramatic art and Gothic architecture of the Cathedral.Address: Wisconsin AveDirections: Metro directions: Exit on the west side of Wisconsin Avenue. Take any 30 series bus going south. Ride approximately one and one-half miles south on Wisconsin Avenue to the Cathedral. Driving directions: From Downtown DC take Massachusetts Avenue north to Wisconsin Avenue. Turn right onto Wisconsin Avenue. The Cathedral is on your immediate right.Closest Metro Stop: Tenleytown/AU (Red Line).Hours: Monday-Friday 10 AM - 5:30 PM with tours 10 AM - 11:30 AM and 12:45 AM-4 PM. Saturday open 10 AM - 4:30 PM with tours 10 AM – 11:30 AM and 12:45 PM - 3:30 PM. Sunday open 8 AM - 6:30 PM with tours 1 - 2:30 PM.Costs: Guided tour fees: Adults $5, Seniors $3, Children $1, $5 for Family. Audio tour fees: $5 per person. Tour and Tea fees: $25 per person.How to request a tour: Visit www.cathedral.org to see the options. National Building Museum Summary: Exhibits change yearly and range from Shakespeare for the 21st Century to years of Domestic Architecture to America’s World’s Fairs.Tour Length: 45 minutes.Address: 401 F St, NW, between 4th and 5th Streets.Closest Metro Stop: Judiciary Square (Red Line).Hours: The National Building Museum is open to the public Monday - Saturday, 10 AM to 5 PM, and Sunday, 11 AM to 5 PM. The Museum is closed Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's Day. On rare occasions, the Museum may close for a special event. Walk-in public tours are offered Monday through Wednesday at 12:30 PM, and Thursday through Sunday at 11:30 AM, 12:30 PM, andCosts: Free, but there is a $5 suggested donation.Notes: Groups of 10 or more must make a reservation by contacting the group coordinator at grouptours@nbm.org. Fees may apply to group tours for 10 or more. Wheelchair access is available through the G Street entrance. For more information call (202) 272-2448 or visit http://www.nbm.org/. National Capital Trolley MuseumSummary: Ride a collection of working trolleys from around the world and from Washington, DC before the end of service in 1962.Address: 1313 Bonifant Road, Colesville, MDMetro: Difficult to access. Glenmont (Red Line), then Ride On #26, about a mile walk from the stop. No sidewalks for most of walk.Hours: Saturday and Sunday, 12-5Cost: $7 adults, $5 children/seniors National Geographic Society Museum at Explorers Hall Summary: The Hall features permanent interactive geography and science exhibits, as well as changing displays to give visitors opportunities to share in recent archaeological finds, the latest in photography, and expositions of exotic cultures.Address: 17th and M Streets NWClosest Metro Stop: Farragut North (Red Line).Hours: Open Monday – Saturday 9 AM – 5 PM; Sunday 10 AM – 5 PMCosts: FreeNotes: No guided tours are available. For more information call (202) 857-7588 or visit http://www.nationalgeographic.com/museum/. National Museum of Crime and PunishmentSummary: Includes a crime scene lab, the filming studios for Americas Most Wanted, and exhibits on CSI and crime-fighting.Address: 575 7th St NWMetro: Gallery Place (Red, Green, Yellow)Hours: 10-7 Sun-Thurs, 10-8 Fri-SatCost: $21.95 adults, $16.95 seniors, military, and students, $14.95 children. Online discount available. Newseum Summary: This museum, which opened in April of 2008, is devoted entirely to the history and development of everything involving news. It has seven levels of galleries, theatres, and hands-on exhibits that take visitors behind the scenes to experience how and why news is made.Address: Pennsylvania Avenue and Sixth Street NWClosest Metro Stop: Judiciary Square (Red Line) or Penn Quarter Station (Yellow and Green Lines)Hours: 9 AM - 5 PM daily, closed Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year’s DayCosts: Adults (13–64) $20, Seniors (65 and older) $18, Youth (7-12) $13, and Children (6 and younger) Free, for large groups call 888-639-7386Website: www.newseum.org Phillips CollectionSummary: Private collection with selections of impressionist and modern works.Address: 1600 21st St NWMetro: Dupont Circle (Red)Hours: Tues.-Sat. 10am-5pm; Thurs. extended hours to 8:30 pm; Sun. 11am-6pmCost: By donation. Additional fee for special collections. Segway Tour Tour Summary: Tours begin with a thirty minute training session. Stops along the tour include the National Mall, Smithsonian, US Capitol, and J. Edgar Hoover FBI Building.Tour Length: 4 hours.Address: Willard Hotel, 1455 Pennsylvania Avenue NWDirections: Tours depart from the lobby.Closest Metro Stop: Metro Center (Blue, Orange, and Red Lines).Hours: Reservations are needed. Tours available April 1-November 30. Day Tours (10AM-2PM) and Night Tours (6PM-10PM).Costs: $70 per person.Restrictions: Segway tours are only available for people 16 or older.How to request a tour: Tours can be made via their Website, www.citysegwaytours.com/washington United States Memorial Holocaust MuseumSummary: Memorializing the Holocaust.Address: 100 Raoul Wallenberg Pl SWMetro: Smithsonian (Orange, Blue)Hours: 10-6:20 Mon-Fri, 10-5:20 Sat-SunCost: Free -30-
04.07.11	04.07.11 Schiff Statement on a Looming Government Shutdown Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the looming government shutdown:“It is irresponsible to continue running the government in one- or two-week increments, but allowing the government to shut down would be even more irresponsible, counterproductive to our economic recovery, and detrimental to our long-term fiscal standing. An independent, non-partisan analysis indicated that a government shutdown could cost $8 billion per week – a price we simply cannot afford. Now is not the time to let partisan politics get in the way of providing essential government services.”-30-
04.06.11	04.06.11 Schiff Statement on Ryan Budget Proposal Washington, DC — Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the FY 2012 budget proposal released by Budget Chairman Paul Ryan:"The bipartisan Bowles-Simpson fiscal commission laid out a menu of painful but serious proposals to deal with our growing budgetary and fiscal crises."As a Blue Dog Democrat who has long championed the need to balance our budget and pay down our debt, I am encouraged that the necessity of putting the nation's fiscal house in order now commands such attention, and the prospect for dealing with our deficit and debt problem is greater than ever."I cannot, however, embrace the solutions recently offered by House Budget Chairman Ryan, which would continue an unsustainable policy of upper-income tax cuts, while turning Medicare into a voucher program. These proposals are not new and do not meet a test of basic fairness. Instead, they reflect a policy that is in evidence in the current debate over the continuing resolution to fund the government, which would hold harmless multibillion dollar tax subsidies of the oil industry, while cutting home heating oil assistance to the poor. "There are many ways to balance the budget -- but the one I favor will require a shared sacrifice for all Americans."Moreover, Ryan's budget falls victim to some of the same fiscal gimmicks that have plagued other budgets in the past, relying on "savings" of dubious merit and which, according to CBO projections, are never likely to materialize."Notwithstanding the flaws in the particulars of Ryan's budget, I welcome his entrance into the debate and hope we can now begin the hard work of finding common ground and saving our nation from a future mortgaged to its past."-30-
04.04.11	04.04.11 Schiff, Rogers Introduce Legislation to Protect Children from Predators Washington, DC– Unfortunately, every year a number of convicted felons will try to spend unsupervised time with children by volunteering with a non-profit organization. However, a nationwide FBI fingerprint search, part of the PROTECT Act pilot program, has prevented many such offenders from volunteering – and protected children from harm.To build on the success of the pilot and make these essential background checks permanently and widely available to youth-serving organizations, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI) have sponsored the bipartisan Child Protection Improvements Act. The legislation would:Ensure that youth-serving organizations, all across the country, would have access to FBI fingerprint searches in a timely, affordable and accurate manner;Streamline the process of obtaining nationwide background checks through the creation of a new national Applicant Processing Center; andProtect the privacy rights of volunteers by ensuring that all volunteers have a chance to correct errors in the records."Giving non-profits that work with children the ability to better screen their volunteers has a proven track record of protecting our young people. And background checks for nonprofits working with children can be conducted quickly, affordably, and accurately," Rep. Schiff said. “It's time to create a permanent system, one that will protect children while ensuring the privacy of volunteers. When it comes to protecting children across the country involved with mentoring organizations, after-school programs, youth sports, and more, we should always strive for the gold standard.”“Parents and their children should not need to worry about their safety and well-being when participating in unsupervised youth organization activities,” Rep. Rogers said. “The Child Protection Improvements Act would achieve both goals of protecting children from possible harm in youth-oriented programs and respecting the privacy of those who selflessly choose to volunteer.”Congress created the Child Safety Pilot Program in 2003 to demonstrate the feasibility of allowing youth-serving nonprofits to access FBI background checks. Three times since then, Congress has acted to extend the pilot so that thousands of community organizations all over the country don't lose access to background checks for their volunteers.Nearly 90,000 FBI fingerprint checks have been conducted through the pilot. In 94 percent of the cases, the background check returns no serious criminal history. However, in 6 percent of the cases, a record of some kind was found, in some cases an extensive record which the applicant attempted to conceal. In 23 percent of those cases, the applicant gave a name other than the one in their criminal history. Applicants were found with convictions for everything from murder to child abuse to sexual assault; and frequently those convictions were from out of State so that only an FBI background check would have found them.Outside of the pilot, just one-third of states currently allow youth-serving organizations to access FBI searches. Even when these searches are available, high costs and lengthy response times often make them inaccessible. The goal of this bill is to keep the cost of background checks as low as possible so that they remain affordable for the smallest non-profits, while ensuring the program can be sustained without annual appropriations.“We are grateful to Representatives Schiff and Rogers for introducing this critical legislation today,” said Larry Wright, President and CEO of MENTOR. “It is essential that we pass this bill to protect the safety of millions of children across the country by screening potential volunteers and employees at youth serving organizations.”"We applaud Congressman Adam Schiff for introducing the Child Protection Improvements Act. As a former Big Brother, the Congressman understands that child safety is at the foundation of quality youth mentoring services," said Karen J. Mathis, Big Brothers Big Sisters President and CEO. "To achieve the highest quality standards possible, it is critical that service providers constantly review and strengthen screening and background check systems as new best practices in the industry emerge."Last Congress, this legislation passed the House with a strong bipartisan majority of 413-4. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) recently introduced a companion to this bill in the Senate. -30-
04.01.11	04.01.11 House Denies Measure to Allow Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports to Adopt Curfews Washington, DC – Today, the House failed to pass an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill that Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced with colleagues Brad Sherman and Howard Berman, the Valley-Wide Noise Relief Act. The amendment would have allowed Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports to adopt curfews.“I am disappointed that our amendment to allow Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports to adopt mandatory curfews failed, but in what may be the first-ever vote on this issue in Congress we had a substantial amount of support that we can build on, and I am determined to press on,” Rep. Schiff said. “These airports should have been permitted to retain the curfews they had in place decades ago, and I am determined to correct this historic inequity. The Part 161 process is deeply flawed and the FAA has little intention of granting relief to any community unless forced. I will continue fighting on behalf of the thousands of San Fernando Valley residents who have long-sought relief from aviation-related nighttime noise.”The legislation, sponsored by Rep. Schiff and co-sponsored by Reps. Sherman and Berman, would clarify that, for many of the same reasons that several other airports were exempted when it was enacted in 1990, these two airports should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act. In the case of the Bob Hope Airport, this was one of the first airports in the country to impose a curfew. The Van Nuys curfew was a partial curfew that applied to some, but not all, operators. The language would allow Burbank and Van Nuys Airports to adopt non-discriminatory curfews applicable to operators from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m.The legislation would apply only to airports that already had at least a partial curfew in effect before 1990 when ANCA was enacted. The legislation is designed to address the omission of not allowing curfews at these two airports, but is not intended to open the door to any further exemptions from that Act.Furthermore, it would address concerns that the FAA cited in rejecting Burbank’s Part 161 application for a curfew – that it would add congestion to an already crowded airspace and it would impact the national system of airports because it would cause system wide delays. The proposal would have a minimal impact on local airspace because a joint curfew for both airports is designed to ensure that air traffic is not shifted from one airport to the other. Additionally, as Van Nuys Airport is part of a larger consortium of airports, including one of the largest in the country, LAX, that is willing and able to accept nighttime traffic the consortium can structure and implement the curfew in a manner that ensures that it does not negatively affect local and national airspace.-30-
03.30.11	03.30.11 Schiff Testifies Before House Rules Committee Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) testified before the House Rules Committee, urging them to allow the House to consider legislation he introduced with colleagues Brad Sherman and Howard Berman, the Valley-Wide Noise Relief Act, as an amendment to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill, which is set to come to the House floor toward the end of the week. The amendment will allow Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports to adopt curfews.“The thousands of San Fernando Valley residents who have long-sought relief from aviation-related nighttime noise in the vicinity of the Burbank and Van Nuys airports should be able to have their concerns about this critical issue heard,” Rep. Schiff said. “I urge the Rules Committee to provide the full House the opportunity to vote on this important issue, which will allow many San Fernando Valley residents to enjoy the peace and quiet they deserve.”Rep. Schiff’s testimony, as prepared for delivery before the Rule Committee, was as follows:“Chairman, Ranking Member and other Members of the Committee thank you for providing me the opportunity to speak in support of the amendment to the FAA Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2011 (H.R. 658) that I have submitted, along with my Southern California colleagues Mr. Sherman and Mr. Berman. This amendment would allow airports that meet specific requirements – airports that already had at least a partial curfew in effect before the 1990 Airport Noise and Control Act (ANCA) – to implement mandatory nighttime curfews.“Thousands of residents of Southern California’s San Fernando Valley, who live under the flight paths or near the terminals at the Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports, endure the house-shaking noise of air traffic during the day and suffer the jarring interruption of their sleep caused by a roaring jet.“To address the concerns of those affected by airport noise across the nation, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) established a process to consider a community’s request for a curfew. However, the process was designed to be so difficult that in the decades since it was established by the FAA, only one airport in the nation has successfully completed an application – Bob Hope Airport. And then it was summarily turned down.“After years of effort and millions of dollars to complete its application for a curfew, the FAA rejected Bob Hope’s request, erroneously contending that the small number of flights impacted by the curfew will impose too great a strain on the country’s aviation system and too great a cost on users. In reality, the FAA approached the process in reverse, beginning with the conclusion it wished to reach and working backwards to try to justify its result. It is clear to us that the only way to provide relief to the residents in our community is through legislative action. “Our amendment would allow these two airports – and only these two airports – to adopt nighttime curfews between the hours of 10 p.m. and 7 a.m., which would finally provide relief to the thousands of area residents who have long-sought a solution to aviation-related nighttime noise. The amendment would clarify that for many of the same reasons that several airports that were grandfathered exemptions to ANCA when the law passed, that Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports should also be exempted from ANCA since they both had at least a partial curfew in effect before 1990. The amendment also establishes the process for implementing and administrating the curfew.“I urge the Committee to make in order this amendment, so that the residents of the San Fernando Valley can have their concerns about this critical issue heard and the full House can have the opportunity to vote on this important issue.”BackgroundThe legislation, sponsored by Rep. Schiff and co-sponsored by Reps. Sherman and Berman, would clarify that, for many of the same reasons that several other airports were exempted when it was enacted in 1990, these two airports should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act. In the case of the Bob Hope Airport, this was one of the first airports in the country to impose a curfew. The Van Nuys curfew was a partial curfew that applied to some, but not all, operators. The language would allow Burbank and Van Nuys Airports to adopt non-discriminatory curfews applicable to operators from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m.The legislation would apply only to airports that already had at least a partial curfew in effect before 1990 when ANCA was enacted. The legislation is designed to address the omission of not allowing curfews at these two airports, but is not intended to open the door to any further exemptions from that Act.Furthermore, it would address concerns that the FAA cited in rejecting Burbank’s Part 161 application for a curfew – that it would add congestion to an already crowded airspace and it would impact the national system of airports because it would cause system wide delays. The proposal would have a minimal impact on local airspace because a joint curfew for both airports is designed to ensure that air traffic is not shifted from one airport to the other. Additionally, as Van Nuys Airport is part of a larger consortium of airports, including one of the largest in the country, LAX, that is willing and able to accept nighttime traffic the consortium can structure and implement the curfew in a manner that ensures that it does not negatively affect local and national airspace.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Schiff statement concerning U.S. military action in Libya Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff released the following statement concerning U.S. military action in Libya:"The situation in the Middle East and North Africa is one of great promise and at the same time, considerable peril. The spontaneous uprising of youth in the Arab world and beyond to demand a better life, representative government and an end to corruption is deeply inspiring. But it will bring a period of instability in the near term that will present many dangerous dillemas for the United States and our allies. We cannot treat each country as if the factors giving rise to discontent are precisely the same, or the outcomes can be achieved in assembly line fashion. Libya demonstrates the dangers. The President made the right decision to intervene with the support of the international community including the United Nations and Arab League. But bringing that intervention to a successful and near term conclusion will be difficult and the American role must remain limited. Our resources, human and capital, are limited and being taxed by commitments elsewhere and we must call upon other nations to do more. Within our capacity, however, we must continue to do all we can to support pro-democracy forces in Egypt, Tunisia, Syria, and beyond. This is a once in a generation opportunity for many tens of millions to experience the kind of liberty we have enjoyed in our country for more than 200 years."-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Carol Naomi Tanita Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Carol Naomi Tanita of Monterey Park for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Carol has maintained an active spirit for all her passions in life, and continues to be involved with the community as a tireless volunteer and parent,” Rep. Schiff said. “We are fortunate to have Carol as a member of our community, and we can all be inspired by her example.”Born in the Boyle Heights region of Los Angeles, Carol grew up committed to her education. Upon graduating high school with honors, she attended the University of Southern California, where she attained her Bachelors and Masters degrees in the field of Education, and earned her Specialist Credential in Bilingual Cross-Cultural Education in Japanese.Carol served as a member of the PTA of Brightwood and Repetto Elementary Schools for 12 years, and received numerous awards, including the title of Parent of the Year at Repetto Elementary School for her exemplary service.In 2007, Carol was presented with the Community Service Award by the Alhambra Educational Foundation. Her continuous efforts were always appreciated, as she repeatedly received the Honorary Service Award and Continuing Service Award at Mark Keppel High School. Upon the graduation of her children, Carol continued to be active with the PTSA and the Mark Keppel Alliance. As a result of her unwavering commitment, she was awarded the Golden Oak-- the highest award the California PTA gives for outstanding service to schools and communities. During 20 years of committed service, Carol has surpassed 9,000 volunteer hours. Carol also serves the community beyond the realm of education. For two years, she served on the F.A.C.E.S.’s Board at Pacific Clinics and the Family Advisory Council at the Eastern Los Angeles Regional Center, which serves individuals with developmental disabilities. Currently, Carol dedicates her time to Parents In Community Inclusion (PICI), a group which mentors families and educators in creating an inclusive community for special needs individuals.Carol served as a parent volunteer for the Boy Scouts of America as well, when her son Nicholas enrolled as a Cub Scout. Over the years, she served as the Parent Committee Chair, Treasurer, and now is the District Finance Chair for the Mission Amigos District of the San Gabriel Valley Council Boy Scouts of America, which serves the cities of Monterey Park, Alhambra, San Gabriel, Rosemead, El Monte and South El Monte.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Joan Fauvre Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Joan Fauvreof Pasadena for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Joan’s impact in Pasadena has been exemplary, and she has set a tremendous example of what it means to give back to the community,” Rep. Schiff said. “She has increasingly volunteered her time and talent, making unparalleled commitments to our children and their education.”Joan grew up in Louisiana and received her B.A. from the University of Louisiana, Lafayette and her M.A. from Pacific Oaks College. Her commitment to children and education became evident early, when she taught third grade in the Los Angeles Unified School District in 1976, prior to starting a family.In the 1980s, Joan joined the Pasadena Educational Foundation (PEF). Established in 1971, PEF is a nonprofit organization that is committed to developing partnerships and resources to enhance educational programs in the Pasadena Unified School District (PUSD). The Foundation has been incredibly successful, especially due to Joan’s professional leadership and skills as a fundraiser and community builder. In 1985, Joan served on the Board of Directors, where she proved to be a valuable asset to the Foundation. In 1990, she co-chaired a planning committee, which aimed to expand PEF’s fundraising efforts. In 1994, she completed her tenure as a board member and accepted the position of Executive Director. As a testament to the foundation’s success and Joan’s able guidance, PEF has taken on some of the critically important district-wide activities that had been cut from the PUSD budget. For instance, the Foundation now runs a Summer Enrichment Program at five PUSD campuses that provides learning opportunities for more than 1,000 students. Furthermore, thanks to Joan’s efforts and the community support that she garnered, all PUSD middle schools have a Robotics Program. Joan is also a dedicated volunteer, who has committed endless hours of service to a variety of organizations, including the Pasadena-Foothill Valley YWCA, the Junior League of Pasadena, and Polytechnic Parents Group, among others. She was also an active participant on the Partners in Education Advisory Board and served on the Board of Trustees of Pacific Oaks College and Children’s School for eight years.Following her retirement from PEF in 2010, Joan has remained a vibrant member of the community. Currently, she serves on the Board of Trustees of the Pasadena Child Health Foundation and on the Board of Directors of the California Consortium of Education Foundations. She and her husband John have three children and two grandchildren.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Dr. Susan C. Parks Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Dr. Susan C. Parksfor her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Susan Parks has demonstrated what a tremendous impact a single person can have on her community,” Rep. Schiff said. “As a lifelong educator and current Superintendent of the San Gabriel Unified School District, she has assisted in educating thousands of students in the 29th Congressional District, helping to ensure that the schools in our communities produce well-rounded individuals who can compete in an increasingly challenging world.”A native Angelino, she spent her early years in Los Angeles City schools, where she proved herself to be a quick learner. Early on, Susan realized that many people held inherent beliefs that girls could not accomplish certain feats simply because they were girls. Determined to prove them wrong, Susan applied herself throughout high school and, as a result, received numerous scholarship offers. Thereafter, Dr. Parks decided to attend the University of Southern California (USC), where she was named a Trustee Scholar.At USC, Susan Parks witnessed the struggle of the civil rights movement, encouraging her desire to promote peace throughout the world. After the Watts riots, Susan volunteered to help a pre-school recover and found that she had the potential to change the world by teaching young children. After graduating from USC Magna Cum Laude, she began teaching in Los Angeles where she strived to one day become a principal and eventually superintendent. She became the principal at Walnut Grove Elementary School and, after the passage of Proposition 13, she provided leadership to begin Hollow Hills Elementary School, a magnet school that achieved tremendous success. Her experience proved invaluable as she went on to hold positions as a Deputy Superintendent in Simi Valley, the Superintendent of Schools in the Baldwin Park Unified School District, and, in 2006, as the Superintendent of the San Gabriel Unified School District.Today, Dr. Parks continues to work tirelessly for the students in San Gabriel schools and has taken large steps to give students in the 29th Congressional District the same opportunities for a superb education that she has enjoyed. She and her husband, Gary Parks, have three children and six grandchildren.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Anita Martin Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Anita Martin of Altadena for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“For many years, Anita has spent an extraordinary amount of time and energy helping our nation’s veterans,” Rep. Schiff said. “In addition to Anita’s contributions to veterans, Anita has volunteered extensively in Altadena, helping to enhance educational opportunities for our children, support seniors and abuse victims, and reduce crime within the community.”Every other week, Anita and her husband of 23 years, Walter, volunteer at the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System’s West LA Domiciliary. They assist veterans with the necessary paperwork for benefits claims; advocate for their health care; help them find shelter; lend a hand to homeless veterans; and act as liaisons with veterans’ families and the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System. In addition, the Martins raise funds; have donated clothing, computers, a washer and dryer for women veterans; have arranged for a bank to provide direct deposit for the veterans at the West LA Domiciliary; and visited veterans on a regular basis.Anita is active in several military service organizations. She is currently President of the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Military Order of the Purple Heart, Unit 1898; Junior Vice President of the Department of California’s Ladies Auxiliary Military Order of the Purple Heart; and Senior Vice President of the American Legion Auxiliary, Unit 280 in Pasadena. In addition, she has volunteered extensively in Altadena for years with such organizations as the Altadena Sheriff’s Station, where she ran their program for abused women, the Altadena Old Fashion Days Parade, Christmas Tree Lane Association, and Franklin Elementary and Eliot Middle Schools. Along with her husband, Anita formed a Neighborhood Watch Program in their Altadena neighborhood, provided guidance to others in forming their own Neighborhood Watch Programs, and for their leadership, the Martins received the Governor’s Award for Best Crime Prevention in 1992 from then-Governor Deukmejian. Anita and Walter’s business, Martin’s Famous Louisiana Sausages (formerly Martin’s BBQ) has donated food for years to organizations such as Sacred Heart Church, various homeless shelters, the American Legion, the Altadena Sheriff’s Station and the USO. Most recently, Anita and Walter organized a program where several economically challenged senior citizens received gift cards and shopped for food at a local grocery store, with the assistance of JROTC students.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Nanette Fish Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Nanette Fish of Temple City for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Nanette is being honored as a Woman of the Year for her dedication to our schools, as well as the countless hours she has spent raising money for local charities and non-profit organizations,” Rep. Schiff said. “Her passion for volunteerism is evident in the countless organizations to which she has donated her time and energy, and she has made the City of Temple City a better place to live.”A 26-year Temple City resident, Nanette began volunteering with Temple City’s schools in the early 1990’s, when her children were young. She served on the Executive Boards of the local PTAs, the Temple City Youth Football Board, the Temple City High School Ramrodders Football Executive Board, and the Temple City American Little League Board. In addition, Ms. Fish was a “Team Mom” for Temple City Youth Cheer, AYSO Soccer, Junior Varsity Girls Basketball, Junior Girls Softball and Youth Football, served as Chairperson and Member of the Cloverly Elementary School Site Council, volunteered for five years on the High School Grad Nite Committee, and was a Western Association of Schools and Colleges’ Parent/Community Committee member for Temple City High School. In 2010, she received the Temple City Unified School District’s Temple City High School VIP Volunteer Award.Currently, Ms. Fish, employed as the Temple City Camellia Festival Director, finds time to volunteer for several organizations including the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Association, Saint Luke Catholic Church and the Temple City Chamber of Commerce, where she serves on the Miss Temple City Pageant Committee, and the chamber’s Golf Tournament Committee. In 2009 and 2010 she received the chamber’s Community Service Award. In addition, Nanette is a Temple City Parks and Recreation Commissioner and enjoys participating in various fundraising walks for cancer awareness.Nanette and her husband, Kevin, have been married for 26 years and have 2 children, Cameron and Lainie.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Maro Kechichian Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Maro Kechichian of Burbank for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Maro’s tireless efforts have benefited all of our community and beyond,” Rep. Schiff said. “She is a dedicated participant in all her endeavors, bringing a dynamic energy to all of the activities in which she participates.”Maro was born and raised in Lebanon, where she received her early education and simultaneously became an active member of the Zavarian Student Association. With a passion for learning, Maro pursued a higher education, and received a Bachelor’s Degree in Armenian Literature from St. Joseph University in Beirut, Lebanon. Prior to moving to the United States, Maro taught at Aksor Kassardjian, an Armenian school in a predominantly Armenian suburb of Beirut. She proved to be a valuable asset to the school, and was promoted to Director-- a position she held for eight years.Maro immigrated to the United States in 1984 and joined Homenetmen’s Los Angeles Chapter, where she is an active member. She has served as a board member of Homenetmen Western Regional Executive Committee as a secretary for six terms. As a professional, she is a trusted team member who helps organize regional and international events, including the renowned annual Navasartian Games of Southern California.Maro has been elected as a Regional Executive member for Homenetmen numerous times. Her expertise with issues related to Homenetmen leads her to take frequent part in its Central meetings. These meetings take place every four years, and allow Homenetmen leaders from around the world to gather and plan upcoming nationwide activities. It is also noteworthy that Maro was a reporter for Asbarez Armenian Daily Newspaper for 20 years, and covered news from Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh.In 1990, Maro was appointed to a special project aimed at establishing a Homenetmen region in Armenia. She stayed in Armenia for three months and was solely committed to this effort. Ever since then, Maro not only continues supporting the region she visited, but also extends a helping hand to Nagorno-Karabakh.Currently, Maro serves as an Executive Secretary at the Armenian Relief Society (ARS) of the Western Region, and is an advisor for Homenetmen’s Los Angeles Chapter. She is also an active volunteer, and spends numerous hours helping Armenian Relief Society’s Araz chapter and various fundraising committees.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Dr. Ana Maria Grace Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Dr. Ana Maria Grace of South Pasadena for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“As a physician, Dr. Grace has dedicated her career to helping individuals and patients in need, in addition to assisting them in attaining a better understanding of various medical conditions,” Rep. Schiff said. “Dr. Grace’s steadfast dedication and unparalleled service make her a superb choice to exemplify contributions of women in our community, during Women’s History Month.”Dr. Grace discovered her passion for helping others at an early age. Upon receiving a Bachelor of Science in biochemistry from California State University, Fullerton, she went on to attend medical school at the University of Wisconsin. Ana completed her residency at the University of Southern California and the University of Arizona.Currently, Dr. Grace is an attending physician at two locations. She works in the Cecilia Gonzalez De La Hoya Cancer Center at White Memorial Medical Center (WMMC), and at the Radiation Oncology Services at Albert C. Mak, M.D., Inc. In addition to being a dedicated physician, Ana simultaneously has various roles within her profession. She is currently a member of the WMMC Cancer Committee, serving as the committee’s chairperson since 2008, and Director of WMMC’s Cancer Center.Dr. Grace’s primary focus has been senior citizens and the Spanish speaking population. As a committee member of WMMC’s Senior Center, Dr. Grace has helped with setting outreach and service goals, which have included making presentations to senior citizens regarding cancer awareness, screening and prevention. With her Spanish speaking skills, Dr. Grace has also been able to communicate medical information about common malignancies to the public, with the ultimate goal of reducing the risk for cancer and emphasizing early diagnosis. On Spanish news stations such as Univision, Telemundo, and Azteca, Dr. Grace has discussed various topics such as cancer awareness, and the effects of secondhand smoking.The list of Dr. Grace’s public presentations is impressive. Since 2005, in addition to appearing on television interviews, Ana has lectured at nursing homes and at health fairs where she has spoken about lung cancer, breast cancer, and colon cancer awareness and prevention. Dr. Grace also holds professional society memberships with the Los Angeles Radiological Society, American Medical Association, and Glendale Adventist Medical Center Cancer Committee, among others.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Maureen Walsh Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Maureen Walsh of Glendale for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“In addition to developing a successful career in marketing and press relations, Maureen has always found time in her life to volunteer,” Rep. Schiff said. “From boosting literacy to bringing joy into the lives of medical patients, her dedication to enhancing the lives of others is exemplary and to be commended.”A native New Yorker, when Maureen moved to Glendale in 1988, she became active on the Women’s Committee of the Glendale Symphony Orchestra, where she worked on a program that brought music to students in Glendale schools. For the last several years, Maureen has been enthusiastically involved with the Cabrini Literary Guild in Glendale. The Cabrini Literary Guild is a philanthropic organization organized in 1943, whose mission is to raise funds to support various charities in the Glendale area, such as Loaves & Fishes, YWCA of Glendale, literacy programs, as well as to promote a Writing Award Program with the high schools in the Catholic Diocese of Los Angeles. A member since 1994 and a board member since 1995, Maureen has held the offices of Membership Chair, Writing Awards Chair, Secretary, Treasurer and President. Currently she is First Vice President in charge of programs at the association’s monthly meetings and is a participant in the Guild’s annual fundraisers.Maureen joined Providence Saint Joseph Medical Center’s Guild in 1999, joining their board shortly afterward. The Guild’s mission is to financially support the Medical Center with its fundraising by making annual pledges -- profits from the Gift Gallery and the Guild’s annual benefits help make it possible for the Guild to provide these monetary pledges. Maureen has served as served as First Vice President and Press Chairman of the Guild, and has acted as Chair or Co-Chair of the annual fundraising events, and is currently involved in the operations of the Gift Gallery.One of Ms. Walsh’s most rewarding activities at the Medical Center is her participation in the Pets with Purpose program. She accompanies her poodle/bichon mix dog, Beau, a participant for nearly five years, as he “makes his rounds” visiting patients in the medical center two Saturdays a month. Maureen is delighted to have the opportunity to help impact the patients’ lives and to see the happiness that Beau’s visits bring.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City-30-
03.29.11	03.29.11 Emily Mayorga Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C.– Yesterday, at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff (CA-29) honored Emily Mayorga of Alhambra for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Along with being a successful career woman, Emily has always been a superb and selfless volunteer,” Rep. Schiff said. “Her lifelong pursuit and dedication to helping others has truly had a positive impact on our community, and for that we are very fortunate.”As a teenager, Emily volunteered at a Catholic church that she attended, and assisted her mother in numerous important projects. At age 12, Emily began teaching Sunday school at the church. By age 14, Emily launched a program designed to teach adults in the church to read and write.Emily was also committed to receiving a higher education. Upon graduating from high school, she attended California State University, Los Angeles, where she graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. She continued her education at the University of Phoenix in Pasadena, and received a Master’s degree in Organizational Management.Emily’s career path took course at an early age. Her perseverance led her to attain various positions at the West San Gabriel Valley YMCA. What began as a summer job soon escalated into Emily holding the title of Associate General Director. After spending more than two decades at the YMCA, she was hired as the Manager of Volunteers at the American Red Cross. Three years later, she was promoted to Human Resources Director. After working for the American Red Cross for four years, Emily was hired to work for the U.S. Department of Commerce/U.S. Census Bureau for one year as Assistant Manager for Recruiting. There, Emily supervised nearly 20 full-time employees, where her team recruited and tested more than 9,000 individuals in the San Gabriel Valley for the 2010 Census.Emily’s accomplishments in the community are many. She joined the Soroptimist Club of Alhambra-San Gabriel-San Marino more than a decade ago, serving as President twice. From 1995 to 2000, Emily served as a spokesperson for the San Gabriel Valley United Way, and became a Board Member of the Alhambra Educational Foundation from 2004 to 2007. Currently, Emily serves as a delegate for the Soroptimist Club and as an Auxiliary Board Member for the Alhambra Retirement Community. Moreover, she is a tireless volunteer for the Tzu-Chi Foundation and the Alhambra Public Library.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.20.11	03.20.11 Schiff Applauds International Community's Decision to Stand with the People of Libya in Their Moment of Opportunity and Need Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the situation in Libya:“This weekend, the US, along with the UK, Canada, France and Italy, joined the UN-backed operation to protect Libyan civilians from the appallingly brutal attacks by Col. Qaddafi's forces. The military action, which was initiated by France and followed shortly by US and UK forces, comes after passage of a UN resolution, which was supported by the Arab League, to impose a no-fly zone in Libyan airspace, and authorizes member states to "take all necessary measures" to "protect civilians and civilian populated areas under threat of attack." Tragically, Qaddafi said yesterday that he promises a "long, drawn-out war with no limits." I applaud the international community's decision to stand with the people of Libya in their moment of opportunity and need.”-30-
03.09.11	03.09.11 Katie's Law Legislation Introduced in the House of Representatives Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced the Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act to make “Katie’s Law” the national standard. The legislation will encourage states to maximize the potential of forensic DNA to solve and prevent violent crimes by collecting a DNA sample upon arrest at the same time as fingerprints -- for certain felony crimes.This bipartisan bill is named after Katie Sepich from Carlsbad, New Mexico, who was 22 years old when she was brutally raped and murdered in Las Cruces, New Mexico. If New Mexico had at that time required a DNA sample to be taken upon arrest, Katie’s killer would have been caught three months after the murder when the murderer was arrested for another predatory crime. Instead, the killer was released back onto the streets; it was three long years before he was finally apprehended again and linked to Katie’s murder.“Katie’s Law will give local law enforcement the DNA technology they need to hasten the criminal investigation process, helping to identify dangerous criminals and take them off the streets to prevent the kind of tragedies and pain that the Sepich family endured,” Rep. Schiff said. “The legislation will help keep our communities safe by solving cold cases, and will give some closure to the families of victims nationwide.”“The abuse of another human being and the taking of human life are unthinkable tragedies,” Reichert said. “DNA science – its collection and analysis – is vital to the criminal investigation process, and this bill will provide a critical resource to aid our law enforcement officials in investigating and prosecuting crimes, protecting the innocent, and preventing the violent crimes that tragically impacts families’ lives.”Twenty-four states, including California, have now adopted DNA collection upon arrest or indictment for at least some violent felonies, and doing so increases the power of the national database to solve crimes. The bonus in federal law enforcement grants provided by Katie’s Law will encourage additional states to adopt an arrestee testing law.The Congressmen worked with Katie’s parents, Jayann and David Sepich of Carlsbad, New Mexico, to develop this national law.“I am grateful for the leadership and support of Congressmen Schiff and Reichert,” said Jayann Sepich, Katie’s mother. “I have focused my advocacy on trying to ensure that no parent experiences the pain we felt losing Katie, and the passage of this bill will help make that a reality.”This Katie’s Law legislation will provide incentives to states to employ the most sophisticated crime fighting tools available to fight violent crime, save lives, and bring killers to justice. This legislation will:Incentivize states to meet minimum standards for arrestee DNA collection. The minimum standard asks states to collect DNA samples from those arrested for, indicted for, or charged with certain violent felonies and compare these samples with existing records in the national DNA database to determine if they match an unsolved case;Incentivize states to meet enhanced arrestee DNA standards by collecting DNA from those arrested for certain crimes and submit the samples for inclusion in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS);Apply current federal law to ensure that any DNA profile of an arrestee that is not convicted is expunged;Reduce the wasteful spending associated with the costly investigation of false leads. A study in Indiana estimated that taxpayers spend over $2,000 per crime for officer response, investigation, prosecution, and adjudication. Catching repeat offenders early will reduce costs over time;Protect the privacy of arrestees. Information obtained from a DNA sample and submitted to national DNA databases only contains 13 to 15 numeric indicators. These numbers are not connected to a name or criminal history and do not indicate broader identifying factors like race, medical history, or predisposition to disease; andProtect the innocent. Katie’s Law is one of the only ways to definitively link killers and rapists to their heinous crimes. By definitively identifying the perpetrators, Katie’s Law statutes have frequently led to the exoneration of innocent men and women who would have otherwise spent decades in prison for crimes they did not commit.Companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), Senator John Kyle (R-AZ), and Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY).-30-
03.03.11	03.03.11 Schiff Tapped to Serve as Ranking Member on House Intelligence Subcommittee Washington, D.C.– As we near the 10-year anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and are keeping a close eye on countries across the Arab world undergoing significant changes in their quest for democracy, the House Intelligence Committee continues to be engaged in work critical to our nation's security.In January, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) was tapped to continue serving on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and today he was named Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Technical and Tactical (T & T) Intelligence. T & T oversees the technical aspects of intelligence gathering, including space-based assets, as well as cyber security. T & T also has primary oversight over the National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, the National Geospatial Agency and other military intelligence programs.“I am grateful for the continuing opportunity to serve on the Intelligence Committee, and I will be honored to serve as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Technical and Tactical Intelligence,” Rep. Schiff said. “In the face of national security challenges of both today and tomorrow, good intelligence is the best defense. My top priority as Ranking Member will be ensuring that our world-class scientists, researchers, engineers, who work to improve our technological capabilities, are appropriately staffed, operating within the law and with maximum effectiveness when it comes to space and cyber security.”Satellites play a critical role in our intelligence agencies, because their images can be used to track suspected terrorists around the world and stop future attacks. Satellites provide real-time data to our troops on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan, and allow us to monitor important global developments.Cyber networks don’t just power our cell phones and iPads; they keep our electric grid running, secure the banking world, protect our water supply, and operate our classified military and intelligence systems.Since coming to Congress, Rep. Schiff has advanced efforts to ensure the safety of all Americans by working to improve our intelligence gathering, implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations, and working to revamp the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to meet the challenges of the 21st Century.In 2007, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi appointed Rep. Schiff to the new House Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. The following year, he was also appointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, which also drafts the laws that govern the intelligence agencies operations. That committee is also responsible for overseeing the 16 agencies that comprise the intelligence community, which include components of the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Justice, State and Energy.-30-
03.02.11	03.02.11 Schiff Supports $39 billion in Spending Cuts to Reduce Deficit Washington, DC –Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the votes he cast over the last month in an effort to address our budget deficit and debt:“The nation’s looming deficit and debt pose a serious threat to our economic future, and we will need to make difficult choices to put our fiscal house in order.“Over the last month, I voted for measures that would reduce the deficit by up to $39 billion over the next 10 years.“It is critical that the cuts we make are smart and targeted as we continue working to grow our economy, while tackling our deficit and debt. We do not want to take actions that will stall our economic recovery or undermine our nation’s ability to compete in the future.“I oppose measures that would be counterproductive to our economic recovery, including cutting critical funding for science, medical research, energy, and education, or that would result in 200,000 children getting kicked out of Head Start. “I am hopeful that Republicans and Democrats in the House and Senate can work together to find a long-term solution to reduce our spending, while preserving the investments we need to protect and accelerate our economic recovery.”Below are a few of the measures supported by Rep. Schiff:Amendment #16, offered by Rep. Thomas Rooney.Eliminates the Joint Strike Fighter alternate engine (F-136) funding from the bill and redirects funds to the spending reduction account, saving $900 million.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt16Amendment #37, offered by Rep. Peter A. DeFazio.Eliminates all funding for salaries and expenses of the Independent Agencies, Selective Service System, saving $24 million.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt37Amendment #78, offered by Rep. Tom Cole. Prohibits the use funds from the Treasury for public financing of Presidential campaigns.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt78Amendment #108, offered by Rep. Ron Kind.Prohibits a $147 million payment to Brazilian cotton farmers—part of a settlement to avoid retaliation by Brazil for U.S. farm subsidies.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt108Amendment #109, offered by Rep. Ron Kind.Terminates the funding for research, develop, test, evaluate, and procurement of the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle Program and Surface-Launched Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt109Amendment #114, offered by Rep. Timothy Bishop.Eliminates the funds ($150 million in FY12) made available for the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility in Manhattan, Kansas.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt114Amendment #119, offered by Rep. Edward Markey. Prohibits new offshore oil and gas leases to companies that have not renegotiated faulty existing leases, saving $53 billion over the lifetime of the existing leases.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt119Amendment #124, offered by Rep. Earl Blumenauer.Caps to $250,000 the amount of money a farm can receive in commodity payments under the Farm Bill, saving about $100 million annually.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt124Amendment #145, offered by Rep. Jeff Flake.Prohibits the use of funds for the construction of ethanol infrastructure.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt145Amendment #166, offered by Rep. John Carney. Prohibits funding of the oil and gas research program at the Department of Energy.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hamdt166(Continuing Resolution) HJ Res. 44. Cuts a total of $4 billion in discretionary spending. Reduces spending by $1.24 billion by ending eight programs marked for elimination in the President’s fiscal 2012 budget, and also defunds unobligated earmark-related funds from fiscal year 2010, for an additional $2.7 billion in savings.http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.uscongress/legislation.112hjres44 -30-
03.02.11	03.02.11 Glendale, Monterey Park Fire Departments Awarded AFG Grants Washington, DC -Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the City of Glendale and the City of Monterey Park have been awarded $1,142,400 and $92,370 respectively under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG). The funds are administered by the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency along with the U.S. Fire Administration."Keeping our first responders on the job and well-equipped is critical to protecting our communities," Rep. Schiff said. "This important funding will ease budget burdens by allowing the Glendale and Monterey Park fire departments to purchase critical equipment they would not otherwise be able to afford. This funding will improve communications among our first responders, reduce emergency response times and enhance patient outcomes.”The City of Glendale will use the funding to replace aging and obsolete equipment, some of which is more than 12 years old. Specifically, it will be used to purchase 12 lead EKG monitor/defibrillators with Capnography and Carbon Monoxide monitoring capability.“The defibrillators purchased with this grant will have the ability to transmit patient data to notify receiving hospitals of an acute patient, allowing them to activate their surgical teams, which in turn can shorten a patient's treatment time by 30 to 60 minutes -- critical moments that often determine a successful outcome for the patient,” said Glendale Fire Chief Harold Scoggins. “Additionally, the new defibrillators will have the ability to monitor Carbon Monoxide levels in patients and firefighters – an invaluable tool that will save patient lives, as well as the lives of our firefighters, because thousands of deathsare attributed to this colorless, odorless gas every year.”The funding for the Monterey Park Fire Department will be used to purchase portable VHF radios. According to acting Fire Chief Jim Birrell, the fire department’s current inventory is more than 10 years old, incapable of being upgraded to meet the FCC’s requirements, and are no longer supported by the manufacturer.“We are very grateful and appreciative of Congressman Schiff, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the members of the fire agencies’ panel review for approving Monterey Park’s request for funding to purchase portable VHF radios,” Birrell said. “Without the VHF radios, the Fire Department will lose communication with the Police Department, as well as other emergency response and public safety agencies on the VHF system, so these radios are essential to our personnel involved in mutual aid calls and California Strike team deployments.”-30-
02.28.11	02.28.11 Schiff, Sherman and Berman Introduce Legislation to Allow Bob Hope, Van Nuys Airports to Adopt Curfews Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Brad Sherman (D-CA) and Howard Berman (D-CA) introduced the Valley-Wide Noise Relief Act to allow Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports to adopt curfews.“Both airports have had noise restrictions, including partial and voluntary curfews, in effect for more than a generation, but neither airport fits precisely within any of the narrow exemptions in the 1990 law,” Rep. Schiff said. “Exempting these two airports from the ANCA would reduce aviation-related nighttime noise, which interferes in the daily activities of Valley residents living under the flight paths and in close proximity to the terminals.”“Valley residents living under the flight path and near Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports should be able to enjoy a restful night without the roar of jet engines waking them up in the middle of the night,” said Rep. Sherman, whose district includes both airports. “We are committed to achieving a solution that ultimately reduces or eliminates nighttime noise within the communities that have fought for relief for decades. Our improved legislative language will help balance the needs of aviation and those residents seeking peace and quiet in their communities.”“For many years I have been fighting on behalf of Valley residents to end the problem of nighttime noise created by the Van Nuys and Burbank airports,” added Rep. Berman. “While partial curfews have been imposed, the FAA has long stood in the way of achieving real relief. Our legislation will finally put an end to these bureaucratic roadblocks and deliver much deserved peace and quiet for area residents by imposing comprehensive evening curfews at both airports.”The legislation would clarify that, for many of the same reasons that several other airports were exempted when it was enacted in 1990, these two airports should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act. In the case of the Bob Hope Airport, this was one of the first airports in the country to impose a curfew. The Van Nuys curfew was a partial curfew that applied to some, but not all, operators. The language would allow Burbank and Van Nuys Airports to adopt non-discriminatory curfews applicable to operators from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m.The legislation would apply only to airports that already had at least a partial curfew in effect before 1990 when ANCA was enacted. The legislation is designed to address the omission of not allowing curfews at these two airports, but is not intended to open the door to any further exemptions from that Act.Furthermore, it would address concerns that the FAA cited in rejecting Burbank’s Part 161 application for a curfew – that it would add congestion to an already crowded airspace and it would impact the national system of airports because it would cause system wide delays. The proposal would have a minimal impact on local airspace because a joint curfew for both airports is designed to ensure that air traffic is not shifted from one airport to the other. Additionally, as Van Nuys Airport is part of a larger consortium of airports, including one of the largest in the country, LAX, that is willing and able to accept nighttime traffic the consortium can structure and implement the curfew in a manner that ensures that it does not negatively affect local and national airspace.-30-
02.23.11	02.23.11 Schiff Appalled by Escalation of Lethal Force, Stands with Libyan People Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after Libya’s Moammar Qaddafi exhibited his willingness to attack his own people:"The escalation of lethal force by the Libyan government this week -- including air strikes on peaceful protesters -- is beyond appalling. Qaddafi’s willingness to attack his own people shows how little regard he has for his countrymen, and how desperately he will cling to power. If he continues such actions, the United Nations Security Council and NATO must consider the imperative of closing off Libyan airspace to prevent further atrocities. The United States stands with the Libyan people and others across the region seeking greater personal and economic freedom, as well as an end to corruption."-30-
02.16.11	02.16.11 Schiff Introduces Legislation to Extend, Expand Use of Build America Bonds Program Washington, DC- Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Build America Bonds Extension Act of 2011, to extend until the end of 2012 the popular program that has helped finance critical transportation and infrastructure projects across the country. Build America Bonds are taxable municipal bonds that as originally established provided a 35 percent tax credit on the interest rate established between the buyer and the issuer of the bond. The Build America Bonds program was created in the 111th Congress and expired at the end of 2010.“California has issued numerous Build America Bonds to undertake critical public infrastructure projects, so much so that nearly a quarter of the Build America Bonds issued nationwide have been issued in our state,” Rep. Schiff said. “Extending the popular program for another two years and expanding the number of eligible organizations that can use these bonds to fund projects will provide a much-needed boost to the hard-hit construction industry in California and throughout the nation.”The legislation introduced by Rep. Schiff today will lower the federal tax credit on the interest paid on the bond from 35 percent to 28 percent as the Administration proposed in its Fiscal Year 2011 budget. The Administration expects that lowering the subsidy to 28 percent will help reduce the cost of the program, making it as close to revenue neutral as possible.The Administration’s Fiscal Year 2012 budget, which was released this week, recommended extending the program permanently and the federal tax credit lowered to a “level designed to be approximately revenue-neutral.” The legislation will also allow state or local governments to issue qualified section 501(c)(3) bonds to be treated as a Build America Bond to fund construction activity on property owned by nonprofits, such as nonprofit hospitals and universities.California has sold about $30 billion in Build America Bonds, more than any other state. Among other projects, the program was used in rebuilding the Bay Bridge, and renovating and erecting new buildings at University of California medical centers, among other important projects.-30-
02.16.11	02.16.11 Schiff Alarmed, Saddened by Attack on CBS Chief Foreign Correspondent Lara Logan Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement about the attack on CBS Chief Foreign Correspondent Lara Logan, who was sexually assaulted and beaten in Cairo on Friday, while covering rallies marking the resignation of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak:“I am deeply alarmed and saddened by the news that CBS chief foreign correspondent Lara Logan, who was covering the reaction to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak’s resignation in Tahrir Square on Friday, Feb. 11, was separated from her crew by a mob of more than 200 people and severely sexually assaulted.“Fortunately, a group of Egyptian women and soldiers ultimately rescued her, and she is now recovering after being hospitalized in Washington, DC. However, the assault is a reminder of the abuse and harassment that many journalists face across the globe. According to Reporters Without Borders, five reporters have already been killed in 2011, and 152 are behind bars. Since 1992, 850 reporters have been killed around the world.“Reporting is a dangerous business and female correspondents can be much more vulnerable during chaotic events. Logan has courageously dedicated herself to covering battlefields for nearly 20 years. Our thoughts and prayers are with her and her family as she recovers.”Rep. Schiff is founder and Co-Chairof the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press. The bipartisan bicameral caucus was founded in May 2006, and aims to advance press freedom around the world by creating a forum to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world.-30-
02.15.11	02.15.11 Schiff Condemns Use of Force against Iranian Protesters Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after reports that Iranian police are using force to contain the most significant street protests the nation has seem since the end of the 2009 uprising there:“The tragic use of force against Iranian protesters displays the stark hypocrisy of that nation's clerical regime. Even as the regime supposedly applauds the right of the Egyptian people to peacefully protest and to determine their own fate, Iran's dictatorship demonstrates its willingness to kill and imprison large numbers of its own population who seek to exercise the same rights. As Americans, we embrace the right of Iranians to express themselves freely, and deplore the brutality of the Iranian government.”-30-
02.14.11	02.14.11 Schiff Seeks Dedication of Altadena Post Office to First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced legislation to designate the U.S. Postal Service office located at 2271 Lake Avenue in Altadena as the “First Lieutenant Oliver Goodall Post Office,” in honor of the more than 50 years of service that Oliver Goodall provided to the community and country as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker.“Oliver Goodall was a steadfast champion of our community and a great patriot, and always exhibited perseverance in the face of adversity,” Rep. Schiff said. “His courageous life story and legacy of service lives on and inspires us all.”Goodall entered the service at Tuskegee in February 1943. In October 1944, he graduated as a multi-engine pilot and was assigned to the 477th Bomber Group at Godman Field, Kentucky, in January 1945, where he attained his First Pilots rating in six months. Goodall was among 60 African American U.S. Army Air Corps officers arrested for trying to peacefully integrate an all-white officers’ club, which came to be known as the Freeman Field Mutiny. The ‘mutiny’ was an important step toward full integration of all U.S. armed forces worldwide in June 1949, serving as a model for later Civil Rights efforts to integrate public facilities.“For more than 50 years, my grandfather served our community as a Tuskegee Airman, public information officer and postal worker, and dedicating the post office in his name is a great joy and an honor for our family,” said Tony Goodall. “I hope that by paying tribute to my grandfather, this will serve as a reminder, not only to our family and friends, but also to our neighbors about the importance of service, as well as an inspiration for young men and women that their contributions to society really will make a difference.”-30-
02.11.11	02.11.11 Schiff Introduces Resolution Expressing Solidarity with the People of Egypt As they Begin their Democratic Transition Washington, DC – Today, after President Mubarak stepped down, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced a House Resolution expressing solidarity with the people of Egypt as they begin their democratic transition. Rep. Schiff released the following statement, and the resolution is attached:“It is impossible to watch the images coming from Egypt of huge numbers of ordinary Egyptians – young and old, secular and religious, men and women, rich and poor – and not be deeply moved by their struggle to bring democracy and human rights to one of the world’s great civilizations.“Ultimately, the Egyptian people control their political destiny, but the stakes are high for the United States as well. If Egypt succeeds in building a functioning, credible democracy in the heart of the Arab world, it could lead to a new era for hundreds of millions of people. However, if Egypt’s young, educated and underemployed protestors fail in their bid to replace the current regime with one that is democratic and accountable to the people, it could further destabilize and radicalize the Middle East. “We need to do everything that we can to support the democratic aspirations of the Egyptian people in this pivotal hour. We have a moral obligation to support Egypt’s broad-based, organic democratic revolution. This resolution will make it clear to the Egyptian people that the United States House of Representatives stands with them now and shares their hopes for a freer, more prosperous Egypt.”Rep. Schiff serves on the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, which oversees the Nation’s intelligence activities, as well as the State Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee, which plays a central role in the formation and execution of U.S. foreign policy. RESOLUTIONExpressing solidarity with the people of Egypt in their democratic aspirations as they begin a new chapter in their country’s proud history.Whereas on January 14, 2011, after weeks of demonstrations over rising food costs and high unemployment, the people of Tunisia drove out President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali after 23 years in power;Whereas the lack of a political opposition and an independent media in Tunisia had resulted in a lack of governmental accountability and fostered the growth of corruption, cronyism, and unresponsiveness to the needs of Tunisia’s young and increasingly well-educated population;Whereas similar conditions exist throughout much of the Arab Middle East resulting in high youth unemployment, poor economic performance, and brutal treatment of ordinary citizens by their security services; Whereas the revolution in Tunisia was facilitated by the use of social media internally and its ideals and images were transmitted around the world on the Internet and television;Whereas on the evening of January 25, 2011, President Barack Obama told the Nation in his State of the Union address that ‘‘the United States of America stands with the people of Tunisia, and supports the democratic aspirations of all people.’’;Whereas young Egyptian democracy activists, inspired by the events in Tunisia and harboring the same fervent desire for democracy, opportunity, and an end to corruption in their own country, used social media to organize a ‘‘Day of Rage’’ on January 25, 2011;Whereas the size of the demonstrations in Cairo, Alexandria, Suez, and elsewhere were the largest seen in Egypt in decades and continued to grow in the ensuing days despite the widespread use of tear gas, rubber-coated bullets, clubs by security services, and hundreds of deaths and many thousands wounded;Whereas the Egyptian security services ‘‘shut down’’ mobile phone and Internet service in a futile attempt to prevent organizers from arranging further protests;Whereas on January 28, 2011, after 24 protestors were killed and more than 1,000 wounded by the police and progovernment thugs in 1 day, the Egyptian army took up positions in the streets of Cairo;Whereas the Egyptian army pledged not to fire on protestors and called their grievances ‘‘legitimate’’;Whereas on February 1, 2011, President Hosni Mubarak announced that he would not seek another term and would resign from the presidency following the election for his successor in September and that his newly-appointed Vice President, Omar Suleiman, would open a dialogue with the full range of those in opposition to his regime;Whereas on February 5, 2011, and February 6, 2011, the demonstrators met with Vice President Suleiman and Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq to discuss a political transition and to reiterate their central demand that President Mubarak step down in order to begin the process of building a new Egypt and to ensure an electoral process free from manipulation;Whereas on February 6, 2011, President Barack Obama stated that ‘‘the Egyptian people want freedom, they want free and fair elections, they want a representative government, they want a responsive government’’;Whereas Egyptian workers demonstrated their solidarity with the protestors on February 8, 2011, when they began strikes across Egypt;Whereas in a speech on February 10, 2011, that was widely expected to be his resignation, President Mubarak told Egyptians that he would remain in office, while delegating some of his powers to Vice President Suleiman and beginning a process of national dialogue and reform;Whereas the people of Egypt did not believe that the transition to a new government could begin as long as President Mubarak remained in office and vowed to continue their demonstrations;Whereas President Barack Obama issued a statement saying that after President Mubarak’s February 10, 2011, speech, ‘‘too many Egyptians remain unconvinced that the government is serious about a genuine transition to democracy.’’; andWhereas President Mubarak resigned as President of Egypt on February 11, 2011, and relinquished control to the Egyptian army: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives—(1) stands in solidarity with the people of Egypt in their democratic aspirations and as they begin a new chapter in their country’s proud history;(2) condemns the use of violence against unarmed protestors by the Egyptian security services and hired gangs of thugs, urges the release of any peaceful protestors who remain in custody, and calls for an end to the imposition of emergency or martial law;(3) deplores the targeted beatings and arrests of Egyptian and international journalists, as well as human rights and democracy advocates;(4) expresses its gratitude to the Egyptian army for their restraint and for remembering that their mission is to safeguard the people of Egypt; and(5) calls upon the Government of Egypt and the political opposition to work together to transition Egypt to a credible democracy with respect for universal rights, including minority rights, and a new era for the Egyptian people.
02.09.11	02.09.11 Schiff, Sherman and Berman Urge Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure to Address Oversight in the Airport Noise and Capacity Act Washington, DC –Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Brad Sherman (D-CA) and Howard Berman (D-CA) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure (T&I), urging them to amend the reauthorization legislation for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to allow Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports to adopt curfews.“Both airports have had noise restrictions, including partial and voluntary curfews, in effect for more than a generation, but neither airport fits precisely within any of the narrow exemptions in the 1990 law,” Rep. Schiff said. “Exempting these two airports from the ANCA would reduce aviation-related nighttime noise, which interferes in the daily activities of Valley residents living under the flight paths and in close proximity to the terminals.”“Valley residents living under the flight path and near Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports should be able to enjoy a restful night without the roar of jet engines waking them up in the middle of the night,” said Rep. Sherman, whose district includes both airports. “We are committed to achieving a solution that ultimately reduces or eliminates nighttime noise within the communities that have fought for relief for decades. Our improved legislative language will help balance the needs of aviation and those residents seeking peace and quiet in their communities.”“I have spent many years fighting on behalf of Valley residents to secure a curfew at Van Nuys and Burbank airports,” Rep. Berman said. “The FAA’s refusal to provide relief to communities across the Valley leaves us no other alternative than pursuing a legislative solution to the serious problem of night time noise operations at these airports.” Full text of the letter:Dear Chairman Mica, Chairman Petri, Ranking Member Rahall and Ranking Member Costello,Earlier this week, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure asked Members to provide the Committee their ideas for Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reauthorization legislation in advance of two reauthorization hearings at the end of the week. We thank you for this opportunity to share our ideas with the Committee. We will shortly introduce legislation, the Valley-Wide Noise Relief Act, to address an oversight in the Airport Noise and Capacity Act (ANCA) of 1990 that has had a tremendous impact on our region of Southern California. We write to urge your assistance in including this legislation as a provision in FAA reauthorization and reform legislation.When Congress enacted ANCA, it exempted from the law’s new requirements many airports that had noise rules already in effect. The Burbank (Bob Hope) and Van Nuys Airports in the Los Angeles area both have had noise restrictions, including partial and voluntary curfews, in effect for more than a generation but neither airport fit precisely within any of the narrow exemptions in the 1990 law. The proposed provision would clarify that, for many of the same reasons that several other airports were exempted when it was enacted in 1990, these two airports should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act. In the case of the Bob Hope Airport, this was one of the first airports in the country to impose a curfew. The Van Nuys curfew was a partial curfew that applied to some, but not all, operators. The language would allow Burbank and Van Nuys Airports to adopt non-discriminatory curfews applicable to all operators from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m.The proposed amendment would apply only to airports that already had at least a partial curfew in effect before 1990 when ANCA was enacted. The legislation is designed to address the omission of not allowing curfews at these two airports, but is not intended to open the door to any further exemptions from that Act. Furthermore, the provision would address concerns that the FAA cited in rejecting Burbank’s Part 161 application for a curfew – that it would add congestion to an already crowded airspace and it would impact the national system of airports because it would cause system wide delays. The proposal would have a minimal impact on local airspace because a joint curfew for both airports is designed to ensure that air traffic is not shifted from one airport to the other. Additionally, as Van Nuys Airport is part of a larger consortium of airports, including one of the largest in the country, LAX, that is willing and able to accept nighttime traffic the consortium can structure and implement the curfew in a manner that ensures that it does not negatively affect local and national airspace.Accordingly, we request that you include the following language, which will be introduced shortly as the Valley-Wide Noise Relief Act, in the FAA reauthorization legislation:(a) Section 47524, written assurances prescribed pursuant to section 47107, and any other provisions of subtitle VII of Title 49, United States Code shall not be applied in a manner that would prohibit or materially interfere with:(1) A local action by an airport sponsor to implement and enforce a mandatory nighttime curfew for all aircraft between 10 p.m. to 7 a.m., where (i) the airport had a voluntary curfew in effect for some aircraft on November 5, 1990, and (ii) the airport was created by intergovernmental agreement pursuant to state statute enacted before November 5, 1990 where both the agreement and the statute impose obligations concerning noise mitigation.(2) A local action by an airport sponsor to implement and enforce a mandatory nighttime curfew that applies to all or some aircraft for no longer than 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. at a general aviation airport where (i) the airport had a partial curfew in effect prior to November 5, 1990; (ii) the airport operates under the supervision of a board of airport commissioners that, as of January 1, 2010 oversaw operation of three or more airports, at least two of which have airport operating certificates pursuant to 14 C.F.R. Part 139; and (iii) the airport as of January 1, 2010, failed to comply with the cumulative noise standard established by state law for airports in the state.(b) Prior to imposing a mandatory nighttime curfew pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, each airport sponsor must provide reasonable notice to airport users and to other potentially affected and interested parties of the terms of and penalties for violating such restriction, and may implement a restriction no earlier than 90 days from the notice required hereunder. The requirement for “reasonable notice” shall be satisfied if the airport sponsor:(1) posts the terms of the restriction on its website, and(2) provides such terms to known direct tenants of the airport sponsor who operate aircraft at the airport, either at their leasehold or the address they have provided to the airport for receipt of notices under their lease. Sincerely,Congressman Adam SchiffCongressman Brad ShermanCongressman Howard Berman-30-
02.07.11	02.07.11 Schiff Calls on Constituents to Nominate Outstanding Women for a Congressional Award Washington, DC - Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities (Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena, and Temple City) in the 29th Congressional District.“Recipients of the ‘Woman of the Year award’ come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region,” Rep. Schiff said. “I urge constituents to contact my office and let us know about some of the admirable women in our communities by nominating them for this year’s award.”While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life in our community.Nominations should be sent to ann.peifer@mail.house.gov, including:A written description of your nominee’s accomplishmentsThe city in which she residesAn address and telephone number where she can be reachedThe deadline for nominations is February 15, 2011.-30-
02.04.11	02.04.11 Schiff Condemns Escalation of Violence in Egypt, Intimidation and Attacks on Journalists Washington, DC -Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), co-chair of the Caucus on Freedom of the Press, released the following statement on the escalation of violence in Egypt and the attacks on journalists as part of the government's effort to control the information disseminated both within and outside the country:“I deplore the use of violence to disrupt peaceful protests in Egypt, and condemn the campaign of intimidation and abuse directed against journalists throughout Egypt. Whether from Western or Arab media, television networks or wire services or newspapers, journalists must not be threatened, intimidated, attacked or arrested in an attempt to stop their reporting. We call on the Egyptian government to demonstrate a commitment to human rights and adhere to international law, which clearly guarantees freedom of expression and association, in addition to the right to a free press. I urge the immediate release of any journalist that has been detained, and the protection of both national and foreign journalists from intimidation and attack.”-30-
02.03.11	02.03.11 Schiff distressed by peaceful protest turned bloody melee in Egypt Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement on the situation in Egypt:"I was deeply distressed to see the peaceful protest of Egyptian citizens demanding a better life turn into a bloody melee, as organized goon squads -- some allegedly paid, others plain clothes police officers -- attacked the demonstrators."President Mubarak's willingness to mobilize or tolerate such an attack on his own people has only further deligitimized his government. It is time for him to heed the call of the Egyptian people by leaving office and giving way to a transitional government that will put one of the world's great civilizations on a new path toward democracy and respect for human dignity, and restore Egypt to its rightful place as the leader of the Arab world."###
01.31.11	01.31.11 Resources & Contact Information for Egypt Inquiries Washington, DC - For the latest information on the situation in Egypt, monitor www.travel.state.gov/ and www.egypt.usembassy.gov/. Constituents can also e-mail inquiries to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or call 1-888-407-4747.If there is anything Rep. Schiff's office can do to be helpful to you or your family, please don't hesitate to call 626-304-2727. If you or family members are trying to get out of Egypt, please contact Trish in the Washington, D.C. office directly at patricia.higgins@mail.house.gov.###
01.28.11	01.28.11 Schiff Deplores Egyptian Government's Use of Force, Attacks on Free Press Washington, DC - Rep. Schiff released the following statement following the eruption of violence in Egypt this week, as security forces have used batons, water-cannons, rubber bullets and tear-gas cannons against its own citizens who were peacefully demonstrating. Egyptian security services have also attacked international journalists, including a CNN reporter and camera crew, a German television newsman and a BBC reporter. Other journalists have been beaten and arrested, including some whose whereabouts are unknown."I deplore the use of force to silence the peaceful protests of a broad-range of ordinary Egyptians and urge the Egyptian government to exercise maximum restraint. As the Egyptian people call for economic justice, an end to corruption and for freedom of speech and expression, President Mubarak and his government have an opportunity to lead Egypt into a new era by engaging in a true national dialogue on political and economic reform. President Mubarak has been a strong partner for the United States in the search for peace between Israel and the Palestinians and in the broader struggle against Islamic extremism. But that role does not excuse or justify his government turning the full might of his security apparatus on its own people.“Late reports indicate that President Mubarak has ordered the army onto the streets of Cairo. This is an extremely dangerous development and greatly increases the prospect for large-scale loss of life.“I am also concerned by the efforts of the Egyptian government to suppress Egyptian and international reporters and call upon Egypt to immediately cease any and all harassment, beatings, intimidation and imprisonment of journalists. Attacking the press is both repugnant and counterproductive. I have seen reports that journalists working for CNN, the BBC, and German TV have been singled out and beaten by Egyptian plainclothes police. This must stop. The censorship, intimidation and imprisonment of journalists violates not only their personal liberty, but also the rights of those who are denied access to important ideas and information."Rep. Schiffserves on the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Committee, which oversees the nation’s intelligence activities, as well as the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee, which plays a central role in the formation and execution of U.S. foreign policy, and is responsible for reviewing and funding the U.S. international affairs budgets. Rep. Schiff is also founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press.
01.20.11	01.20.11 Schiff Statement on Hu Jintao's Promise to Take Action on Software Piracy, Protectionism Washington, DC -Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement in response to Chinese President Hu Jintao's promise that his country will start providing funds for government agencies to buy legitimate software, and will also set up audits to monitor the purchase and management of legal software by those agencies:“I welcome President Hu Jintao’s pledge to take action on software piracy,” Rep. Schiff said. “It will take a nationwide campaign against piracy to be successful, and one that includes civil and criminal measures. The toothless ‘administrative enforcement’ that People’s Republic of China authorities have used in the past, must become a thing of the past, replaced with meaningful and aggressive new action."America is the largest creator, producer, and exporter of copyrighted material, and China is one of the top markets for American exports. However, China is also among the five countries on the 2010 International Piracy Watch List, as deemed by the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, Co-Chaired by Rep. Schiff.“Piracy in these countries is largely the result of a lack of political will to confront the problem,” Rep. Schiff said.China made the Watch List because of the scope and depth of its piracy problems, which cost U.S. copyright industries and millions of Americans who work in these companies billions of dollars. The combined copyright industries – movies, home video and television programming, music, books, video games and software – generate more revenues than any other single manufacturing sector, including automobiles and auto parts, aircraft and agriculture.According to the Business Software Alliance, 80 percent of programs installed on personal computers in China are pirated, with a cost of $7.6 billion in 2009.In 2009, industry estimates that global piracy costs U.S. firms more than $25 billion in lost sales annually. Countries on the 2010 Watch List in addition to China include Russia, Canada, Spain, and Mexico. The International Anti-Piracy Caucus is closely monitoring the serious problems of copyright piracy in all five of the countries on the 2010 International Piracy Watch List. -30-
01.18.11	01.18.11 Schiff Congratulates the FBI on Eliminating the Backlog of Offender DNA Washington, DC – After a meeting with Attorney General Eric Holder last week, when he was informed that the backlog of offender DNA has finally been eliminated, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement:"I was very pleased to be informed by the Department of Justice that its backlog of offender DNA has finally been eliminated. This is a strong step forward in public safety and greatly enhances our ability to take dangerous people off the street."Last week, Long Beach police arrested a suspect in a seven year old rape case that occurred in a high school bathroom. Police had DNA collected from the crime scene and for years knew that if they could ever get a hit linking the crime scene evidence to an offender in the National DNA Index System (NDIS), they would have a strong investigative lead."Since 2006, the DNA sample of the man who has now been charged with the rape of a high school girl had been in possession of federal authorities, waiting to be uploaded in the NDIS system. It was only when the Federal Bureau of Investigation finally uploaded the suspect’s sample in 2010 that Long Beach police got their hit and made an arrest."This case forcefully demonstrates the costs of backlogs in processing and uploading samples collected from convicted and arrested felons. I have been pushing the FBI to speed up the processing of offender samples for years, and have pushed for funding to help them eliminate their backlog.“I congratulate the FBI on closing the offender backlog and remain committed to ensuring that the agency has sufficient resources to avoid any backlog in the future. Meanwhile, I will continue to explore ways we can better utilize DNA evidence to solve rapes and murders by expanding arrestee testing, the select use of familial DNA, and the establishment of a regional lab in the foothills.” -30-
01.18.11	01.18.11 Smith and Schiff Introduce Drug Safe Harbor Elimination Act Washington, DC - Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Drug Trafficking Safe Harbor Elimination Act – legislation to close a loophole in U.S. drug enforcement laws and give law enforcement officials greater authority to prosecute individuals engaged in international drug trafficking conspiracies.“Criminals who plot from within our borders to traffic drugs internationally should not be given a free pass just because the drugs they transport never enter the U.S.,” Chairman Smith said. “In order to protect Americans and combat the illegal drug trade, we must ensure that conspirators in the U.S. are brought to justice. We know that the illegal profits from these organizations fuel violence and fund terrorism around the world. And it is increasingly important to combat international drug cartels as the drug war in Mexico brings violence closer to home. This bill will close the dangerous loophole that allows international drug traffickers to avoid prosecution in the U.S.”“In light of the destructive trade in drugs and guns between the U.S. and Mexico, it is more important than ever to eliminate any safe harbor for drug traffickers,” Rep. Schiff said. “This bipartisan bill closes a loophole in current law, giving law enforcement officials the ability to prosecute drug trafficking conspiracies conducted in the U.S., even if many of the illegal acts occur outside our borders."This legislation comes in response to a 2007 decision by the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. In the case, the defendants were convicted of a conspiracy to transport cocaine from Venezuela to Paris for distribution in Europe. The defendants appealed the conviction on the grounds that the objective of the conspiracy was to procure and distribute cocaine on foreign soil, and as such was not a violation of U.S. law. The government argued that because actions and meetings to further the conspiracy took place on U.S. soil (in Miami), they were subject to punishment under the title.The 11th Circuit overturned the conviction, finding that Congress’s lack of specific guidance on whether the statute should extend to drug trafficking outside the United States necessitated a dismissal. The legislation introduced today will clarify Congressional intent that conspiring to traffic in drugs in the United States is a Federal offense, regardless of where other parts of the conspiracy take place.This bill was introduced in the 111th Congress, when it passed the House as a companion bill to legislation introduced in the Senate by Senators Kent Conrad and Jeff Sessions. Although it did not pass the Senate to become law during the 111th Congress, the Congressmen hope it will pass during the 112th Congress.-30-
01.08.11	01.08.11 Schiff Statement on shooting in Arizona Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff released the following statement after reports that fellow Blue Dog member Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords was shot at an event in Tuscon, Arizona earlier today:"Today's attack on Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords and her staff is deeply distressing -- it is a sad day for Congress and the country. Gabby is a friend, in addition to being a colleague, and I hope and pray that she and her staff make a full recovery. It impossible to be an effective representative without exactly the kind of informal community meetings and exchanges that she was engaged in at the time of the shooting -- and that must and will continue for all of us. In this tragic hour, we come together as Americans to send our thoughts and prayers to Congresswoman Giffords, her staff, those who were injured, and their families."-30-
12.22.10	12.22.10 Schiff Statement on Senate passage of the new START Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement after the Senate passed the new START:“Today, the Senate took an important step to bolster our nation's security by passing the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START) and sending it to the President to be signed into law. The nuclear-arms pact between the U.S. and Russia, which builds on decades of work by Democratic and Republican presidents, limits the number of nuclear warheads to 1,550. Additionally, the treaty would allow a return of monitoring and verification, which is crucial to the continued maintenance of strategic cooperation between the two nuclear superpowers and gives a degree of assurance to our national security policymakers that no satellite can match. Finally, passage of this legislation is an acknowledgement that Congress can work together to find sensible solutions to the nation's challenges.” ###
12.21.10	12.21.10 Government Performance and Results Modernization Act to Become Law Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) supported and the House passed H.R. 2142, the Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010, clearing the bill for the President’s signature. The legislation, co-sponsored by Rep. Schiff, will bring increased transparency and accountability to the federal government by implementing the same approach that has improved the value and efficiency of state-level programs throughout the nation.“For Congress to make fiscally responsible budgetary decisions, we must havetransparent data about the performance and efficiency of federal agencies,” Rep. Schiff said. “As a co-sponsor of the bill, I believe it will help Congress conduct more effective oversight, make better-informed authorization and appropriation decisions, identify and eliminate duplicative programs, and enhance the performance of federal programs.” Specifically, The Government Performance and Results Modernization Act of 2010 will: § Require that federal agencies assess performance on a quarterly basis to ensure federal taxpayer dollars are being spent in an effective manner;§ Make these assessment reports available on a single public website so that both Congress and the American people have access to critical information on federal agencies’ strengths and weaknesses;§ Require each agency to designate a Chief Operating Officer who will be held accountable for agency results;§ Require the federal budget office to identify duplicative and outdated agency reporting and reduce the number of annual written reports by ten-percent; and§ Require action if an agency’s programs have not met performance goals for a fiscal year. ###
12.17.10	12.17.10 Legislation Enhancing Patent Expertise in Federal Courts Headed to President's Desk WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) today applauded House passage H.R. 628, legislation creating a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The legislation has already been approved by the Senate and last night’s unanimous consent agreement sends the legislation to the desk of President Barack Obama.The legislation will establish a pilot project in at least six district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases. "Prior to coming to Congress, I was part of a number of patent suits. I was often struck by the fact that many district court judges either knew little of the applicable law, or did not understand the technology involved," said Issa. "Patent litigation often costs litigants over $10 million and can inject crippling uncertainty into a business. This legislation launches a 10 year program to support efforts of courts to help businesses and individual inventors who patent ideas."“As the home to the most creative, inventive and entrepreneurial people in the world, it is important that we support an economic environment that encourages innovation,” Schiff said. “Obtaining and protecting intellectual property rights is increasingly becoming a strategic necessity for individuals and businesses throughout the nation. This important legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents, and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating, which could reduce the cost to consumers on everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones.” The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success. The Patent Pilot bill was originally introduced by Rep. Issa and Rep. Schiff in 2006. It was passed by the House of Representatives in both the 109th and 110th Congresses.###
12.17.10	12.17.10 Legislation Enhancing Patent Expertise in Federal Courts Headed to President's Desk WASHINGTON. D.C. – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) today applauded House passage H.R. 628, legislation creating a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The legislation has already been approved by the Senate and last night’s unanimous consent agreement sends the legislation to the desk of President Barack Obama.The legislation will establish a pilot project in at least six district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases. "Prior to coming to Congress, I was part of a number of patent suits. I was often struck by the fact that many district court judges either knew little of the applicable law, or did not understand the technology involved," said Issa. "Patent litigation often costs litigants over $10 million and can inject crippling uncertainty into a business. This legislation launches a 10 year program to support efforts of courts to help businesses and individual inventors who patent ideas."“As the home to the most creative, inventive and entrepreneurial people in the world, it is important that we support an economic environment that encourages innovation,” Schiff said. “Obtaining and protecting intellectual property rights is increasingly becoming a strategic necessity for individuals and businesses throughout the nation. This important legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents, and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating, which could reduce the cost to consumers on everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones.” The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success.The Patent Pilot bill was originally introduced by Rep. Issa and Rep. Schiff in 2006. It was passed by the House of Representatives in both the 109th and 110th Congresses.###
12.16.10	12.16.10 House Votes to Strengthen the New GI Bill Washington, DC - Today, the House passed the Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act (S.3447) to strengthen the New GI Bill for the 21stCentury, which will provide a four-year college education for nearly 300,000 veterans enrolled in college this fall. The legislation will make it easier for veterans to take advantage of New GI Bill education benefits to pay for tuition at public and private universities, including online education and distance learning, while expanding opportunities for job training and vocational education to help them enter into the work force. The bill will save taxpayer dollars by closing loopholes in the original legislation, matching stipends to attendance status, and eliminating duplication of benefits. The bill was passed by the Senate earlier this week and will now go to the President to be signed into law.“Our brave men and women in uniform make a pledge to leave no solider behind on the battlefield, and this legislation is part of an ongoing effort to ensure no veteran is left behind when they return from their service,” Rep. Schiff said. Specifically, the bill streamlines the New GI Bill and makes it more equitable by:Expanding opportunities for training and education, covering vocational and technical schools, apprenticeships and on-the-job training that were not previously covered;Giving active-duty students a book stipend of $1,000 per year, like veterans under the program;Providing living allowances for distance learners, like injured veterans forced to take online classes;Simplifying the Yellow Ribbon Program for veterans attending private colleges and universities and taking graduate courses, eliminating the confusing state cap system, and setting a $17,500 per year cap for tuition and fees; andGranting full credit to National Guardsmen, including those called up to respond to national disasters like Hurricane Katrina or the BP oil spill, making more than 130,000 eligible for this education benefit.A range of veterans’ organizations support this measure, including the American Legion, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, Military Officers Association of America, National Guard Association, National Association of Uniformed Services, and Student Veterans of America.###
12.09.10	12.09.10 Schiff Sends DREAM Act Letter to Senate Majority Leader Reid Washington, DC - On Thursday, December 9, Rep. Schiff sent the following letter to Senate Majority Leader Reid, requesting that he work with members of both parties to bring the DREAM Act, as passed by the House of Representatives on December 8, to a vote:Dear Majority Leader Reid:I respectfully request that you work with members of both parties to bring the DREAM Act, as passed by the House of Representatives on December 8th, to a vote. The DREAM Act passed the House with a bipartisan majority of 216-198.My district has a tremendously diverse immigrant community, and it is one of the many things that makes Los Angeles such a vibrant area. However, when I visit local high schools, I frequently hear from young people who find that their path to a better life is ending before their 18th birthday through no fault of their own. They have done everything right. They worked hard, gotten good grades, and stayed out of trouble. They want to go to college or join the military to serve their community and their nation. Yet they find that they can’t do any of those things, because their parents illegally brought them to the United States. Frequently, they find out that they are not citizens only when they apply for college or a job or try to enlist in the military. For these students that came to the United States when they were just children, this is the only country they know.The need for the DREAM Act has been recognized by a wide array of groups across the political spectrum. Among them is the Undersecretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, Clifford Stanley, who announced the support of the Department of Defense for the DREAM Act which will expand the pool of talented and motivated recruits. The DREAM Act is not a handout, it is a hand up. To benefit from its provisions, young people will need to work hard and serve their communities. In the end, by developing their skills and working in our community, the students who take advantage of the DREAM Act will give back far more to our economy and our security as a nation than what we give them. The investment we make by passing the DREAM Act will be repaid many times over by the jobs created and the communities that are strengthened by giving students a chance at the American Dream.I know you share my view that the DREAM Act is an important priority. I encourage you to use all the powers available to you as Majority Leader to schedule an up or down vote on DREAM Act this year.Sincerely, Adam B. Schiff
12.08.10	12.08.10 Senate Votes to Impeach Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr. Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Senate voted to convict U.S. District Judge G. Thomas Porteous of Louisiana on all four articles of impeachment, removing him from his lifetime seat on the federal bench and denying him his $174,000 annual pension. Specifically, the four articles of impeachment, which required a two-thirds vote to pass, that were approved by the Senate charged Porteous of intentionally making material false statements and representations under penalty of perjury, engaging in a corrupt kickback scheme, soliciting and accepting unlawful gifts, and intentionally misleding the Senate during his confirmation proceedings. The Senate also voted to disqualify Porteous from ever holding public office in the U.S.The lead House impeachment managers, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), presented the case to the full Senate for Porteous’s removal yesterday. Judicial impeachments are extremely rare – Porteous is only the eighth federal judge in U.S. history to be impeached and convicted by Congress. “Judge Porteous engaged in a persistent pattern of corruption throughout his career, on both the state and federal bench,” said Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA). “Allowing him to remain a judge would have eroded public confidence in the courts and made a mockery of the federal judiciary. I have great admiration for how the Senate conducted the trial, which was eminently fair to both sides, and the House is grateful that a corrupt judge has now been removed.”“When a judge abuses his office in the way that Judge Porteous did, it becomes necessary to take the appropriate action in order to restore the confidence of the American people in the judicial system,”said Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). “In every step of this lengthy process, we worked in a non-partisan manner to uncover the truth in order to root out corruption and protect the integrity of our judicial system. We are pleased that the Senate accepted our argument that they should set a high standard for conduct that will be a warning to all who are entrusted with public duties.”As lead impeachment managers, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte kicked off the impeachment trial before a special Senate Impeachment Trial Committee with an opening statement on Monday, Sept. 13. To watch the opening statement, visit Rep. Schiff’s YouTube page: www.youtube.com/AdamSchiff. For more information about the trial, visit: http://bit.ly/8YKAX3. Additionally, a short report of the Committee can be found at http://www.gpoaccess.gov/congress/senate/sitc/index.html.OnMarch 11, on the House Floor, House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment Chairman Schiff and Ranking Member Goodlatte, presented the case for impeachment of Judge Porteous to the full House. After the presentation, the House unanimously approved four impeachment articles relating to Judge Porteous. Following the impeachment vote, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte were named the lead impeachment managers for the Senate trial, which will be the Senate's first since 1999, when Bill Clinton’s presidency was being questioned. The Senate last considered the removal of a federal judge in 1989.Following an initial investigatory phase, the Task Force on Judicial Impeachment held four separate evidentiary hearings over five days in November and December 2009, in order to determine whether Judge Porteous’s conduct provides a sufficient basis for impeachment and to develop a record upon which to recommend whether to adopt Articles of Impeachment. This investigation led the Task Force and the full committee to unanimously approve the four articles of impeachment.-30-
12.01.10	12.01.10 Schiff Condemns WikiLeaks' Unauthorized Disclosure of Sensitive, Classified Documents Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the recent unauthorized disclosure of sensitive State Department documents by WikiLeaks:“I deplore the potentially treasonous disclosure of classified and sensitive national security information, and urge the Department of Justice to bring any responsible party to justice. I also condemn the ongoing WikiLeaks release of a quarter million diplomatic documents, which will cause immeasurable harm to our diplomatic efforts, and worst of all, may expose our sources of information to great danger.“I learned this morning that the released cables include one chronicling a private meeting I had in Islamabad with now President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari. Not only could this release cause a potential issue for President Zardari, but it will certainly inhibit his willingness -- and that of other foreign leaders -- to be candid in their discussions with the Administration and Members of Congress. This is not in our national interest.“Ultimately, the Intelligence Community and the Departments of Defense and State need to strike a balance between information sharing and reasonable limits on the dissemination of and access to classified or sensitive information. There are many legitimate reasons for keeping diplomatic conversations from leaking into the public domain. Confidence breeds candor and compromise, and the current document “dump” is particularly damaging to our diplomatic relationships and security alliances that have been critical to American foreign policy, diplomacy and counter-terrorism efforts worldwide.”
11.13.10	11.13.10 Schiff Welcomes the Release of Aung San Suu Kyi from Detention in Burma Washington, D.C. -- Rep. Adam Schiff released the following statement today in response to the news that Burmese democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi has been released from house arrest. Suu Kyi was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 and she is the leading advocate for democracy and human rights in Burma. She has spent 15 of the last 21 years under house arrest despite winning the country’s last democratic election in 1990, which was annulled by the military regime."I welcome the release of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and only wish that she had been released earlier in order to contest the sham elections just held by the Burmese junta."Throughout her years of house arrest, Aung San Suu Kyi's mute opposition to Burma's military dicatorship was a beacon of hope to the Burmese people and to millions of others around the world."Like Mahatma Gandhi, Nelson Mandela and Martin Luther-King, Aung San Suu Kyi's dignity in the face of brutality and her commiment to a better future for all of her nation's people is a testament to human fortitude. She is a remarkable person and I stand with her and her people and call upon Burma's rulers to allow her full freedom of movement and of expression."###
10.21.10	10.21.10 Schiff Receives A+ Grade from the ANCA for Work on Behalf of Armenian-Americans Washington, DC – The Armenian National Committee of America (ANCA) awarded Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) with an A+ grade in recognition of his ongoing efforts on the full range of issues important to his Armenian-American constituents."The Armenian National Committee of America, along with Armenian Americans from throughout Southern California and across our great nation, commend Rep. Adam Schiff for his hard work in fighting for the broad range of human rights, humanitarian, and foreign policy issues of special concern to the Armenian American community," said ANCA Chairman Kenneth V. Hachikian. "I am proud to represent a large and vibrant Armenian community, which has so enriched our nation in every field of endeavor,” Rep. Schiff said. "As a friend of the Armenian community, I will continue working hard to pursue recognition for the 1.5 million victims of the Armenian Genocide, as well was policies to ensure a better life for the Armenian people in our communities and throughout the world."Schiff is the lead sponsor of the Armenian Genocide Resolution, H. Res. 252, and has led Congressional efforts to recognize the genocide and to press successive administrations to do the same. Rep. Schiff also pioneered the Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project, part of an ongoing effort to parallel H. Res. 252. Rep. Schiff continues to encourage survivors of the Genocide and their families from throughout the country to participate in the project by sending in the stories of what happened to their family during the Genocide to Mary Hovagimian in his Pasadena office at mary.hovagimian@mail.house.gov. -30-
10.12.10	10.12.10 Congressional Panel Reconvenes to Delve into Events of the Station Fire Pasadena, CA– Today, a congressional panel to further investigate the circumstances surrounding the Station Fire reconvened to delve into the events of the first day of the Station Fire, which cost the lives of two brave firefighters, and threatened or destroyed the homes of a great many constituents in the 29th District and surrounding communities.“Today’s panel discussion provided the opportunity for us to hear from representatives of the Forest Service and other responding agencies, as well as outside experts and critics, and shed additional light on firefighting procedures and techniques -- how they were applied during the Station Fire, and how they should be revised to improve outcomes in the future,” Rep. Schiff said. “My hope is that this airing of the issues and the GAO investigation to follow will help to ensure that all steps are taken to avoid another devastating tragedy like the Station Fire.”Note: A previously scheduled panel had to be postponed when Congress was call back into session unexpectedly in early August.Invited speakers:Panel 1:William Derr, retired Forest Service employeeDon Feser, retired Angeles National Forest Fire ChiefDuncan Baird, homeowner, Vogel Flats Fire Recovery AllianceJody Noiron, Forest Supervisor, Angeles National ForestWill Spyrison, (retired) Division Chief, Angeles National ForestJohn Tripp, Chief Deputy of Emergency Operations, L.A. County Fire DepartmentPanel 2:Tom Harbour, Director of Fire and Aviation Management, Forest ServiceP. Michael Freeman, Chief, L.A. County Fire DepartmentBob Cavage, President, Wildfire Research NetworkDavid Gillotte, President, Intl. Assoc. of Fire Fighters, Local 1014Casey Judd, Federal Wildland Fire Service Association -30-
10.05.10	10.05.10 Schiff Joins President for Signing of Legislation Honoring "Go for Broke" Regiments with Congressional Gold Medal Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) issued the following statement after the President signed into law S.1055, companion legislation to a bill Rep. Schiff introduced in the House to pay tribute to the U.S. Army 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, as well as the Military Intelligence Service, comprised of Japanese-American troops who fought in Europe and the Asia-Pacific theatre during WWII:“I was incredibly moved and honored today to stand next to members of the Go For Broke regiments as the President signed this bill into law,” Rep. Schiff said. “These brave Japanese-Americans enlisted and fought to protect our Nation despite segregated training conditions, the relocation of families and friends to internment camps, and repeated questions about their combat abilities. Man for man they were the most highly decorated combat units of the war; I can't imagine a group more deserving of this accolade, and I applaud this recognition of their service and patriotism.”The legislation awards these brave troops the Congressional Gold Medal for their dedicated service to our nation. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’ highest civilian honor and requires two-thirds of the House and the Senate to cosponsor the legislation before it can be voted on. The elite medal has been given selectively since 1776, when George Washington was awarded the first, and other honorees include Thomas Edison, the Wright Brothers, Rosa Parks and the Dalai Lama. The legislation originated in the House (H.R. 347) and passed last year with nearly 300 cosponsors.“On behalf of all our veterans, I want to thank Congressman Adam Schiff for his help, and for being such a loyal and faithful supporter,” said Gary Yamauchi, a member of the Board of Directors for the Go For Broke National Education Center. “Our veterans will never forget this day; we are extremely delighted and in our own quiet way, very, very proud.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Stars and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.-30-
10.05.10	10.05.10 Schiff Joins President for Signing of Legislation Honoring "Go for Broke" Regiments with Congressional Gold Medal Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) issued the following statement after the President signed into law S.1055, companion legislation to a bill Rep. Schiff introduced in the House to pay tribute to the U.S. Army 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, as well as the Military Intelligence Service, comprised of Japanese-American troops who fought in Europe and the Asia-Pacific theatre during WWII:“I was incredibly moved and honored today to stand next to members of the Go For Broke regiments as the President signed this bill into law,” Rep. Schiff said. “These brave Japanese-Americans enlisted and fought to protect our Nation despite segregated training conditions, the relocation of families and friends to internment camps, and repeated questions about their combat abilities. Man for man they were the most highly decorated combat units of the war; I can't imagine a group more deserving of this accolade, and I applaud this recognition of their service and patriotism.”The legislation awards these brave troops the Congressional Gold Medal for their dedicated service to our nation. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’ highest civilian honor and requires two-thirds of the House and the Senate to cosponsor the legislation before it can be voted on. The elite medal has been given selectively since 1776, when George Washington was awarded the first, and other honorees include Thomas Edison, the Wright Brothers, Rosa Parks and the Dalai Lama. The legislation originated in the House (H.R. 347) and passed last year with nearly 300 cosponsors.“On behalf of all our veterans, I want to thank Congressman Adam Schiff for his help, and for being such a loyal and faithful supporter,” said Gary Yamauchi, a member of the Board of Directors for the Go For Broke National Education Center. “Our veterans will never forget this day; we are extremely delighted and in our own quiet way, very, very proud.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Stars and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.-30-
10.04.10	10.04.10 Schiff Submits Story of Kevork "George" Hakalmazian, Survivor of the Armenian Genocide, into the Congressional Record Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) submitted an additional story to be included in the Congressional Record – one of many submissions into the national record as part of Rep. Schiff’s Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project.“Kevork “George” Hakalmazian’s survival story builds upon previous stories that have been submitted to help document and preserve the accounts of Armenians who survived the Armenian Genocide,” Rep. Schiff said. “This project is part on an ongoing effort to finally recognize the Genocide, and honor the memory of a million and a half innocent men, women and children, who were brutally murdered by the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1923. One story at a time, we are working together to raise awareness about this important issue, and educate Members of Congress and Americans across the nation on the necessity of recognizing the Genocide.”The Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project, pioneered by Rep. Schiff, is part of an ongoing effort to parallel H. Res. 252, the Congressional resolution he sponsored to recognize and commemorate the Genocide. Rep. Schiff continues to encourage survivors of the Genocide and their families from throughout the country to participate in the project by sending in the stories of what happened to their family during the Genocide. Please send your family's story to Mary Hovagimian in Rep. Schiff’s Pasadena office at mary.hovagimian@mail.house.gov.Below please find the story submitted today as included in the Congressional Record: Hon. Adam Schiff California Tuesday, September 28, 2010 Rep. Adam B. Schiff Mr. SCHIFF. Madame Speaker, I rise today to memorialize and record a courageous story of survival of the Armenian Genocide. The Armenian Genocide, perpetrated by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923, resulted in the death of 1.5 million Armenian men, women, and children. As the U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire Henry Morgenthau documented at the time, it was a campaign of "race extermination."The campaign to annihilate the Armenian people failed, as illustrated by the proud Armenian nation and prosperous diaspora. It is difficult if not impossible to find an Armenian family not touched by the genocide, and while there are some survivors still with us, it is imperative that we record their stories. Through the Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project, I hope to document the harrowing stories of the survivors in an effort to preserve their accounts and to help educate the Members of Congress now and in the future of the necessity of recognizing the Armenian Genocide.This is one of those stories:SUBMITTED BY SCOTT TEJERIAN“My grandfather, Kevork “George” Hakalmazian, lost his family in the genocide somewhere around age seven. His father was forced to give my grandpa’s sister in marriage to the Turkish mayor of their town, Peri. My grandpa never saw his sister again. Shortly after, when my grandpa’s father, Sarkis, was reading the Bible one afternoon in front of their house, Turkish soldiers took him and my grandpa’s mother, Oghapar, away. My grandfather never saw them again. My grandpa and the other children of the village, including his older brother Hagop, were rounded up by the soldiers and taken to the nearby river. At the river they were separated by size. My grandpa’s nephew, the son of his eldest brother who was already living in the USA, was separated in the group of smaller children away from my grandpa and his brother, Hagop. The smaller children were thrown into the river to drown, except my grandpa’s nephew knew how to swim. When the Turkish soldiers saw him swimming, they shot him dead in the water. For the next few years, my grandpa and Hagop were forced to work for a Turkish farm owner. They were his slaves. Eventually, my grandpa and Hagop were rescued by an older cousin, Marderos, who helped them escape to an orphanage in Lebanon. It was there that their eldest brother, Martin, who was living in Chicago at the time, found them and sent for them to come to America. My grandfather arrived in Ellis Island on July 4, 1923. He didn’t know his birthday, so for every year after that his birthday was July 4th.”
10.04.10	10.04.10 ADVISORY: Station Fire Congressional Panel to Reconvene Pasadena, CA- A Congressional panel to further investigate the circumstances surrounding the Station Fire will reconvene on Tuesday, Oct. 12, from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at the Richard H. Chambers U.S. Court of Appeals Building in Pasadena.The panel will delve into the events of the first day of the Station Fire, which cost the lives of two brave firefighters, and threatened or destroyed the homes of a great many constituents in the 29th District and surrounding communities. A previously scheduled panel had to be postponed when Congress was call back into session unexpectedly.“The goal is to hear from representatives of the Forest Service and other responding agencies, as well as outside experts and critics, to shed additional light on firefighting procedures and techniques, how they were applied during the Station Fire, and how they should be revised to improve outcomes in the future,” Rep. Schiff said.The panel will supplement a separate investigation by the GAO, called for by Rep. Schiff and other members. In conjunction with the Station Fire Congressional Panel on Oct. 12, Rep. Schiff is inviting members of the public to submit questions they would like to be asked at the panel. Questions that relate to the Station Fire and the firefighting effort, and are submitted by 5 p.m. PST this Friday, Oct. 8, will be considered, and a few will be selected to be asked of the witnesses.Members of the public can mail written questions to Rep. Schiff’s district office at: 87 North Raymond Ave., Suite 800, Pasadena, CA 91103. Alternatively, individuals with questions can use Rep. Schiff’s website to submit them electronically at http://schiff.dchou01.house.gov, by selecting “Email Congressman Schiff” and choosing “Station Fire Public Comment” as the subject.Invited speakers:Panel 1:William Derr, retired Forest Service employeeDon Feser, retired Angeles National Forest Fire ChiefDuncan Baird, homeowner, Vogel Flats Fire Recovery AllianceJody Noiron, Forest Supervisor, Angeles National ForestWill Spyrison, (retired) Division Chief, Angeles National ForestJohn Tripp, Chief Deputy of Emergency Operations, L.A. County Fire DepartmentPanel 2:Tom Harbour, Director of Fire and Aviation Management, Forest ServiceP. Michael Freeman, Chief, L.A. County Fire DepartmentBob Cavage, President, Wildfire Research NetworkDavid Gillotte, President, Intl. Assoc. of Fire Fighters, Local 1014Casey Judd, Federal Wildland Fire Service AssociationLocation: Richard H. Chambers U.S. Court of Appeals Building- Courtroom 3 125 S. Grand Ave., Pasadena, CA 91105On-Site Media Contact: Caleb Gaul, Technology Specialist, U.S. Court of Appeals (p) 626-229-7282; Caleb_Gaul@ca9.uscourts.gov-30-
09.30.10	09.30.10 Schiff Announces LA County Effort to Combat Economic and High-Tech Crimes Washington, DC– Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs (OJP) has awarded nearly $4 million in grants to enable state and local agencies and prosecutors to boost prosecution of intellectual property crime.Award recipients include the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, which will receive $200,000 under the grant program that was created by legislative provisions authored by Rep. Schiff. An award was also made to the City of Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD).“One of the strategic economic advantages that we has always enjoyed is that America is home to some of the most creative and inventive entrepreneurs, and the most productive work force of anywhere in the world," Rep. Schiff said. "The funding awarded today will help our law enforcement entities crack down on high-tech crimes, including IP crimes of counterfeiting and piracy.”The grants awarded today will provide support for enforcing criminal intellectual property laws as well as educating the public to prevent, deter, and identify criminal violations of these laws.-30-
09.28.10	09.28.10 Schiff Introduces Bill to Improve Data Security, Protect Consumers from Identity Theft, and Enhance Law Enforcement's Capability to Combat Cyber Threats Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Data Breach Notification Act to improve data security, protect consumers from identity theft, and enhance law enforcement’s capability to combat cyber threats.“The FTC estimates that there are 10 million victims of identity theft every year, at a cost of close to $50 billion annually,” Rep. Schiff said. “The Data Breach Notification Act would attack the problem of identity theft by making sure consumers have the information they need to protect themselves, while also providing a powerful incentive for companies and agencies to enhance their data security.”Specifically, the legislation would create a requirement for any federal agency or business engaged in interstate commerce to notify individuals whose sensitive personal information is purposefully breached or accidently disclosed to a third party. Sensitive personal information includes full social security numbers, driver’s license numbers, financial information, and other information that could be used for identity theft.For the past two years, the President’s Identity Theft Task Force has been recommending that Congress enact federal data breach legislation to replace the existing “patchwork of state laws and sector-specific federal laws and regulations that are varied and have uneven application.” (Pages 13 & 14)As the Director of National Intelligence explained to the Intelligence Committee in February, “a growing array of state and non-state adversaries are increasingly targeting—for exploitation and potentially disruption or destruction—our information infrastructure, including the Internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers in critical industries.”The Data Breach Notification Act, would enhance law enforcement’s ability to combat these threats. The bill would also require entities to notify law enforcement in the event of any breach involving more than 10,000 records, a database of more than 1,000,000 records, a federal government database, or information about law enforcement or national security agents. This would enable law enforcement to determine whether these breaches are isolated incidents or part of larger cyber-threats from organized crime rings, hostile foreign organizations, or even foreign governments. If the breach involves more than 5,000 people in any state, notice must also be provided to major media outlets in that state, as well as credit reporting agencies.The measure introduced by Rep. Schiff today is a companion to S.139, legislation introduced in the Senate by Sen. Diane Feinstein (D-CA).-30-
09.23.10	09.23.10 House Sends Schiff/Boxer Bill to the President's Desk to Award "Go for Broke" Regiments with Congressional Gold Medal Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-CA) applauded the passage of S.1055, companion legislation to a bill Rep. Schiff introduced in the House to pay tribute to the U.S. Army 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, as well as the Military Intelligence Service, comprised of Japanese-American troops who fought in Europe, and the Asia-Pacific theatre during WWII.The legislation will now go to the President to be signed into law. It awards these brave troops the Congressional Gold Medal for their dedicated service to our nation. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’ highest civilian honor and requires two-thirds of the House and the Senate to cosponsor the legislation before it can be voted on. The elite medal has been given selectively since 1776, when George Washington was awarded the first, and other honorees include Thomas Edison, the Wright Brothers, Rosa Parks and the Dalai Lama. The legislation originated in the House (H.R. 347) and passed last year with nearly 300 cosponsors.“These brave Japanese-Americans enlisted to fight to protect our Nation despite segregated training conditions, the relocation of families and friends to internment camps, and repeated questions about their combat abilities,” Rep. Schiff said. “Man for man they were the most highly decorated combat units of the war; I can't imagine a group more deserving of this accolade, and I applaud this recognition of their service and patriotism.”“I am so pleased that Congress is honoring these courageous veterans with a Congressional Gold Medal for their service to the United States during World War II,” Sen. Boxer said. “These brave Japanese American enlisted in the Army and fought for their country even as many of their family members and friends were sent to internment camps. This recognition of their service and patriotism is long overdue.”“On behalf of all our veterans, I want to thank Congressman Adam Schiff and Sen. Boxer for their help, and for being such loyal and faithful supporters,” said Gary Yamauchi, a member of the Board of Directors for the Go For Broke National Education Center. “I know that our veterans are going to be extremely delighted and in their own quiet way, very, very proud.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Stars and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.-30-
09.21.10	09.21.10 Schiff Congratulates Government of Armenia and Global Armenian Community in Observance of the 19th Anniversary of the Independence of the Republic of Armenia Washington, DC -Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement in observance of the 19th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Armenia:“As we recognize the 19th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Armenia, I rejoice with the dynamic Armenian community that I represent and proudly say “Oorakh Angakhootyan Or.” Congratulations to the people of Armenia, to Armenians in America and around the world on this joyous day.“The road to independence has not been easy for this nation, but time has proven that Armenians are survivors—survivors of foreign domination and survivors of the first genocide of the 20th century. To this day, Armenian-Americans continue to illustrate what a valuable asset they are to our society, breaking new ground economically, socially and politically in California and across the nation.“Over the years, I have been privileged to work with many individuals in the Armenian community to end our government's tragic failure to recognize the Armenian genocide, end the Turkish and Azerbaijani economic blockade, secure aid for Armenia and secure permanent normal trade relations with the nation.“As a friend to the Armenian community, I am honored to join you in commemorating this momentous anniversary. Congratulations to the government of Armenia and to the global Armenian community.”
09.17.10	09.17.10 Schiff Encourages Troops Affected by Stop Loss to Apply for Retroactive Pay Before Oct. 21 Deadline Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) encouraged veterans of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq to submit claims for retroactive "stop loss" pay before the October 21, 2010 deadline. Troops who are eligible for retroactive pay will receive $500 a month for each month their service was extended, averaging $3,800. The Defense Department estimates that while 145,400 troops are eligible, only 58,000 claims have been paid out so far.“Our brave men and women in uniform made tremendous sacrifices to preserve our liberties and freedoms,” Rep. Schiff said. “In 2009, I supported legislation to compensate our service members whose tours were involuntarily extended in Iraq and Afghanistan. With the deadline fast approaching, I urge all eligible troops to submit their claims so that they can receive the retroactive pay they earned through their service.”In 2009, Rep. Schiff voted to pass HR 2346, the War Supplemental Appropriations Act, which established retroactive stop loss special pay, allowing troops whose service was involuntarily extended between September 11, 2001, and September 30, 2009, to file claims in order to receive retroactive pay if eligible. The deadline for submissions is October 21, 2010.For more information or to submit a claim please visit www.defense.gov/stoploss.-30-
09.16.10	09.16.10 Schiff to Host Breakfast Roundtable, Celebrate National Hispanic Heritage Month Washington, DC– Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he will host a breakfast roundtable meeting with John Trasviña, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), to discuss issues related to fair housing and the Latino community. The roundtable will be held on Monday, September 20 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. at Pasadena City Hall. At the event, Assistant Secretary Trasviña will provide an update on initiatives his office has been working on. He will also be seeking input from community stakeholders on issues facing the local community.“Homeownership is one of the primary ways for families to build assets, which is especially true for Latino households in which a significant percentage of net worth comes from the equity in a home,” Rep. Schiff said. “Unfortunately, as the economy struggles to recover, the number of Latino families who own their own home is dwindling. I hope the roundtable will provide resources and information to ensure Latino individuals and families throughout our community have access to decent, safe and affordable rental and homeownership opportunities.”“Housing and the freedom to choose where one’s family lives are basic needs,” said John Trasviña, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. “Assuring housing in communities, free from discrimination, with access to good schools, jobs, transportation, and health care is one of HUD’s major goals. The Roundtable is an affirmative step to ensure that the Latino community of Pasadena knows its fair housing rights and can gain the assistance of HUD when faced with housing discrimination.”WHO: Rep. Adam Schiff John Trasviña,Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing & Equal Opportunity, HUDWHAT: Roundtable to discuss issues related to fair housing and the Latino communityWHEN: Monday, Sept. 20 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m.RSVP to Yvonne Hsu at (626) 304-2727 or Yvonne.Hsu@mail.house.gov.-30-
09.16.10	09.16.10 Schiff Statement in Recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month Contact: Maureen Shanahan (202) 225-4176Schiff Statement in Recognition of Hispanic Heritage MonthWashington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement in recognition of Hispanic Heritage Month, which is celebrated from Sept. 15 through Oct. 15 every year:“Each year, from Sept. 15 through Oct. 15, we honor the Hispanic community and celebrate the history, culture and extraordinary contributions that Hispanic Americans make to enhance our communities and our nation.“As the fastest growing ethnic group in our country, the more than 48 million-strong Hispanic community is a critical part of the fabric of our society, breaking new ground economically, socially and politically in California and across the nation. “The demographics of the 29th Congressional District are a true reflection of Southern California – people from all corners of the globe live in the district and enhance the rich diversity of the region. “I am proud to represent one of the most diverse congressional districts in the country. One in four of my constituents is of Hispanic heritage – many of whose ancestors came from Spain, Mexico, the Caribbean and Central and South America.“They have distinguished themselves as entrepreneurs, doctors, scientists, educators, and members of our armed forces, and the 29th Congressional District boasts of an impressive list of Hispanic civic leaders who are strongly committed to our community, including: · Alhambra Unified School District Board of Education Member Adele Andrade-Stadler;· Alhambra Unified School District Board of Education Member Patricia Rodriguez-Mackintosh;· Pasadena Unified School District Board of Education Member Ramon Miramontes;· City of Alhambra Councilmember Luis Ayala;· City of Alhambra Councilmember Steven Placido;· City of Burbank Vice Mayor Jess Talamantes;· City of Glendale Councilmember Frank Quintero;· Glendale Community College Board Member Anita Quinonez Gabrielian;· City of Pasadena Councilmember Victor Gordo;· Pasadena Unified School District Board of Education Member Ramon Miramontes;· City of San Gabriel Councilmember Mario De La Torre;· City of San Gabriel Councilmember David Gutierrez;· San Gabriel Unified School District Board of Education Member Denise Menchaca;· City of South Pasadena Councilmember David Sifuentes;· Temple City Mayor Fernando Vizcarra;· Temple City Mayor Pro Tem Tom Chavez; and· Temple City Unified School District Board of Education Member Rachel LaSota.“The contributions of Hispanic Americans to our community, our state and our nation are not limited to these individuals. “The generations of brave Hispanic men and women who have come to our country, came seeking new lives for themselves and their families. In their pursuit of the American Dream, they have positively influenced and enriched our nation and society.“As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month, I urge us all to reflect upon and celebrate the contributions of the Hispanic community to our history, our way of life, and the future we will share as citizens in this great nation.”As part of National Hispanic Heritage Month, Rep. Schiff will host a breakfast roundtable meeting with John Trasviña, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, to discuss issues related to fair housing and the Latino community. Assistant Secretary Trasviña will provide an update on initiatives his office has been working on and will also be seeking input from community stakeholders on issues facing the local community.The roundtable will be held on Monday, September 20 from 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. RSVP to Yvonne Hsu in Rep. Schiff’s Pasadena District Office at (626) 304-2727 or Yvonne.Hsu@mail.house.gov.-30-
09.14.10	09.14.10 Schiff to Reconvene Station Fire Panel Washington, DC - Last month, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) organized a panel of Members to delve into the events of the first day of the Station Fire, which cost the lives of two brave firefighters, and threatened or destroyed the homes of a great many constituents in the 29th District and surrounding communities. Unfortunately, the Members were unexpectedly called back to Washington for a special August session and an important vote, and the panel had to be postponed.With a strong desire to get all the facts out, and after discussion with many other Members, Rep. Schiff announced the new date and time for the panel to reconvene:Date: Tuesday, October 12Time: 9 a.m. – 11 a.m.Location: Richard H. Chambers U.S. Court of Appeals Building, Courtroom Three125 S. Grand Ave., Pasadena, CA 91105“The goal is to hear from representatives of the Forest Service and other responding agencies, as well as outside experts and critics, to shed additional light on firefighting procedures and techniques, how they were applied during the Station Fire, and how they should be revised to improve outcomes in the future,” Rep. Schiff said.Invited speakers:Panel 1William Derr, retired Forest Service employeeDon Feser, retired Angeles National Forest Fire ChiefDuncan Baird, homeowner, Vogel Flats Fire Recovery AllianceJody Noiron, Forest Supervisor, Angeles National ForestWill Spyrison, (retired) Division Chief, Angeles National ForestJohn Tripp, Chief Deputy of Emergency Operations, L.A. County Fire Department Panel 2Tom Harbour, Director of Fire and Aviation Management, Forest ServiceBob Cavage, President, Wildfire Research NetworkDavid Gillotte, President, Intl. Assoc. of Fire Fighters, Local 1014P. Michael Freeman, Chief, L.A. County Fire Department-30-
09.11.10	09.11.10 Schiff Congratulates Armenian Community on the Consecration of the Cathedral of the Western Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement, congratulating the Armenian community on an incredibly historic and joyous event — the consecration of the newly constructed Cathedral of the Western Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church:“The 29th Congressional District is blessed with a large and vibrant Armenian community, which enriches our customs, traditions and quality of life.“Today marks another milestone for the Western Diocese and the Armenian community in the United States. I applaud the hard work and dedication it took to build the beautiful Cathedral of the Western Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church. The tireless efforts and support by the Armenian faithful have led to a phenomenal outcome.“As a friend to the Armenian community, I sincerely congratulate this momentous achievement, and wish for its continued success for many more years to come.”-30-
09.10.10	09.10.10 Senate Committee to Begin Impeachment Trial of Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr. Washington, DC – Next week, a special U.S. Senate committee is scheduled to begin the impeachment trial of Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr., of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana. The House impeachment managers, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Hank Johnson (D-GA), and James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), will present the case to the Senate Impeachment Trial Committee for Judge Porteous’s removal.As lead impeachment managers, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte will begin with an opening statement to the Senate Committee on Monday. Judicial impeachments are extremely rare, and the trial of Judge Porteous is only the sixteenth in the 221-year history of the Senate.WHAT: Impeachment trial of Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr.WHERE: Hart Senate Office Building, Room 216WHEN: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Monday, Sept. 13 – Thursday, Sept. 16 and Tuesday, Sept. 21On March 11, on the House Floor, House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment Chairman Schiff and Ranking Member Goodlatte, presented the case for impeachment of Judge Porteous to the full House. After the presentation, the House unanimously approved four impeachment articles relating to Judge Porteous. Following the impeachment vote, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte were named the lead impeachment managers for the Senate trial, which will be the Senate's first since 1999, when Bill Clinton’s presidency was being questioned. The Senate last considered the removal of a federal judge in 1989.Following an initial investigatory phase, the Task Force on Judicial Impeachment held four separate evidentiary hearings over five days in November and December 2009, in order to determine whether Judge Porteous’s conduct provides a sufficient basis for impeachment and to develop a record upon which to recommend whether to adopt Articles of Impeachment. This investigation led the Task Force and the full committee to unanimously approve four articles of impeachment citing evidence that Judge Proteous intentionally made material false statements and representations under penalty of perjury, engaged in a corrupt kickback scheme, solicited and accepted unlawful gifts, and intentionally misled the Senate during his confirmation proceedings.-30-
09.08.10	09.08.10 GAO Agrees to Conduct Full Investigation of Events Surrounding 2009 Station Fire Response Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has accepted the request for a full investigation of the Station Fire from its inception on Aug. 26, 2009, to its containment on Oct. 16, 2009. Reps. Schiff, McKeon and Dreier lead several of their California colleagues, including Senators Boxer and Feinstein, and Reps. Sherman and Chu,in making the bipartisan request for the investigation on Aug. 5, after news reports indicated that critical Forest Service dispatch recordings from the start of the fire, which claimed the lives of two firefighters and resulted in the destruction of numerous homes and structures, were withheld from federal teams that have already conducted reviews of the Station Fire. "I was deeply troubled to learn that critical Forest Service dispatch recordings from the start of the fire were withheld from federal review teams,” Rep. Schiff said. “This warrants an independent review of the Station Fire response. I eagerly anticipate the commencement of the GAO investigation, which will evaluate whether the actions in response to the fire were taken in the most efficacious way possible. This review will help us to better understand the events surrounding the initial response to the Station Fire to improve the response to future fires."According to the GAO, staff with the required skills could be available to initiate the investigation in as soon as three months. In addition to the GAO investigation, Rep. Schiff scheduled a panel to convene with his colleagues, Reps. McKeon, Dreier, and Chu, on the initial attack on the Station Fire last year. While the initial attack on the fire was swift, over the first evening and the next morning, the fire escaped into terrain too dangerous to approach and spread quickly thereafter. Some former Forest Service employees, fire experts and local residents have raised questions about whether the responding agencies followed the appropriate protocols and made the right decisions on the first night of the fire, and the early morning of the next day.The panel was originally scheduled for early August; however, as a result of a special session of Congress, the Members were needed for votes in Washington, DC, requiring the panel to be postponed. The Los Angeles-area Members are working together and with the panelists to find another date and time in the near future to reconvene the panel.
08.31.10	08.31.10 Rep. Schiff Selects Grant and Frances Delgatty as 2010 Angels in Adoption Awardees Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced he has selected Grant and Frances Delgatty of Pasadena to be this year’s recipient of the 29th Congressional District “Angels in Adoption” award, an annual award sponsored by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI).“The Delgattys are wonderful parents who have opened their hearts and home to a new child,” Rep. Schiff said. “As biological parents, adoptive parents and advocates for foster care children, the Delgattys exemplify what it means to be ‘Angels in Adoption.’ Very-family centered, Grant and Frances invest their time supporting their children’s sporting, school and church activities. We are very fortunate to have their shining example.”The couple, nominated for this award by Olive Crest Foster and Adoption Agency, have two biological sons, Dezin, 7, and Racin, 5, and became interested in fostering a child with the intention of adoption to grow their family while offering a loving home to a child in need. On Halloween 2008, a baby girl only days old, Braxtin Frances, was greeted by the excited family and enthusiastically welcomed into their home.“The Delgattys are such a willing family and one that has really opened up their hearts to the cause,” said John Andersen, Director of Foster and Adoptions for Los Angeles County. “Not only do Grant and Frances go above and beyond for their own family, but they have also been great advocates for foster children and active champions of adoption. Adoptive families like the Delgattys improve our communities, one life at a time. Bringing children into a family environment in which they receive love and support helps them to grow and develop into happy, beautiful individuals.”The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute was founded in 1999 to promote awareness of the significant need for loving and stable homes for foster and foreign children. Each year, CCAI encourages Members of Congress to nominate a constituent who has “enriched the lives of children through adoption” for an “Angels in Adoption” award. All nominees are subsequently honored at a banquet in Washington, DC.Rep. Schiff is a Member of the Congressional Adoption Caucus and welcomes nominations for next year’s “Angels in Adoption” award. For information on how to submit a nomination for next year’s award please contact Congressman Schiff’s district office at 626-304-2727.
08.26.10	08.26.10 Schiff Announces that Natalie Queally will Serve as Fall 2010 Congressional Page Washington, DC– Each semester, the leadership of the Democratic and Republican parties select Members of the U.S. House of Representatives by random lottery draw to nominate students for the House Page Program. Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) won the lottery this year and had the opportunity to nominate a student from the 29th Congressional District to be part of the Page Program during the fall of 2010. He nominated Natalie Queally and she will come to Washington, DC to participate in the program that runs from Monday, Sept. 6, 2010, through Friday, January 21, 2011.“The House Page Program is a great opportunity for students to come to Washington, DC, experiencing Congress in action and assisting with official House duties,” Rep. Schiff said. “The Page Program is a tradition more than 200 years old, and one I am pleased that Natalie will have the opportunity to experience.”Among other things, House Pages deliver correspondence and legislative material throughout the Capitol Complex. They also work within the Democratic and Republican cloakrooms taking messages and answering phones.Natalie is a straight-A student at Glendale High School, ranking sixth in her class of 663 students. She also participates in the Girls Varsity Track Program at GHS. In addition, Natalie is a member of Salem Lutheran Church, where she participates in a youth group.
08.26.10	08.26.10 Congressman Schiff Reads to Young Children at Community Health Alliance of Pasadena Pasadena, CA – Pediatricians and nurses at Community Health Alliance of Pasadena are sending families home from checkups with free books and a very important prescription – “read aloud to your children.” Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (CA-29) visited the clinic, not only to cheer on the young patrons, but to practice what doctors preach by reading to a group of young patients.Community Health Alliance of Pasadena participates in Reach Out and Read, a program that prepares America’s youngest children to succeed in school by partnering with doctors to prescribe books and encourage families to read together. Reach Out and Read’s medical providers advise parents about the importance of reading aloud and give free books to children at checkups from 6 months through 5 years of age. The books are new, carefully chosen, and developmentally-appropriate. Through Reach Out and Read, each child starts kindergarten with a home library of up to 10 books and a parent who has heard at every health supervision visit about the importance of books and reading.Congressman Schiff has long championed a “Kids First” legislative agenda, supporting funding increases for crucial programs such as Head Start, Healthy Start and Reach Out and Read, to give all children the support they need to mature and succeed.“Children from families that read together are often better prepared to succeed, with larger vocabularies and stronger language skills,” Congressman Schiff said. “As a father of two, I believe that capturing the imagination of children through books is one of life’s great pleasures. I love reading to my kids and hope all families can be inspired to do the same.”Community Health Alliance of Pasadena is one of five Programs in Congressman Schiff’s district that participates in Reach Out and Read, providing books to more than 1,200 children annually. Reach Out and Read serves children at 580 locations across California, reaching more than 585,000 infants, toddlers and preschoolers each year.Reach Out and Read doctors and nurses distribute 6.2 million books to more than 3.9 million children and their families annually at 4,535 pediatric practices, hospitals, clinics and health centers in all 50 states, targeting those centers which serve children at socioeconomic risk. Reach Out and Read has one of the strongest records of research support of any primary care intervention. For more than a decade, studies have indicated that parents who get books and literacy counseling from their doctors and nurses are more likely to read to their young children, read to them more often, and provide more books in the home. More than 26,500 medical providers nationwide currently participate in Reach Out and Read. For more information, visit www.reachoutandread.org.
08.04.10	08.04.10 Legislation Introduced in the House to Permit Familial DNA Searches Washington, DC – For nearly 25 years, a serial killer roamed the streets of South Los Angeles, murdering 11 people. According to Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) Chief Charlie Beck, the challenge facing the LAPD was the fact that it had the DNA from the suspect, but there was no match in the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). After the LAPD conducted a Familial DNA search of California’s DNA database and received a hit, a reverse family tree was prepared, which allowed detectives to evaluate all persons related to the Familial DNA match. The investigators began to focus on Lonnie David Franklin Jr., the father of the Familial DNA match. Franklin was placed under surveillance and investigators were able to obtain samples of his DNA. Franklin's DNA was sent to the labs, which resulted in an exact match of the "Grim Sleeper" murder suspect, allowing the LAPD to finally crack the years-old serial killer case in July. “In the case of the Grim Sleeper, law enforcement did outstanding work for many years,” said Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA). “When police requested a state check of Familial DNA, we were fortunate that the match occurred in California. If the Grim Sleeper’s son had been arrested and jailed in Nevada, no match would have been made. The Utilizing DNA Technology to Solve Cold Cases Act instructs the FBI to expand the science of Familial DNA testing by creating a mechanism for conducting familial searches of the national DNA database. Searching the national database would increase the capacity of law enforcement to solve crimes, taking murderers and rapists off the streets and keeping our families safer.”Specifically, the Utilizing DNA Technology to Solve Cold Cases Act of 2010 instructs the FBI to:Implement a national standard by creating a system whereby a state can request a familial search of the national DNA database;Implement a number of procedures to protect the privacy and civil liberties of individuals, and ensure that familial searching is implemented in such a way as to provide the maximum amount of oversight of how the evidence is used; andReport annually to Congress on the number of familial searches requested and their outcomes.Under the legislation, local law enforcement will be required to make the request through a state law enforcement agency to provide an additional layer of oversight. In addition, results will be reported to the state laboratory instead of directly to the law enforcement agency. Finally, only investigations of murders and serious sex crimes will be eligible for familial searches.“The “Grim Sleeper” was a case that spanned nearly 25 years of investigation and claimed the lives of 11 innocent victims,” said LAPD Chief Charlie Beck. “It was not until we attempted to use Familial DNA that our investigators got the clue they needed. Familial DNA testing proved to be an invaluable tool that assisted our detectives in the apprehension of the "Grim Sleeper" murder suspect, and the ability to utilize the national database would strengthen that tool even further."
08.03.10	08.03.10 Senate Passes Schiff/Boxer Bill to Pay Tribute to Award "Go for Broke" Regiments with Congressional Gold Medal Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) applauded the Senate passage of S.1055, companion legislation to a bill he introduced in the House to pay tribute to the U.S. Army 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, as well as the Military Intelligence Service, comprised of Japanese-American soldiers who fought in Europe, and the Asia-Pacific theatre during WWII.The legislation, which passed the Senate last night, will have to be approved once more by the House before going to the President to be signed into law. It awards these brave soldiers the Congressional Gold Medal for their dedicated service to our nation. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’s highest civilian honor and requires two-thirds of the House and the Senate to cosponsor the legislation before it can be voted on. The legislation, H.R. 347, originated in the House and passed last year with nearly 300 cosponsors.“After the bombing of Pearl Harbor incited doubts about the loyalty of Japanese-Americans, these brave men who enlisted to fight to protect our Nation were faced with segregated training conditions, families and friends relocated to internment camps, and repeated questions about their combat abilities,” Rep. Schiff said. “Man for man they were the most highly decorated combat units of the war -- I can't imagine a group more deserving on Congress highest honor.”“On behalf of all our veterans, I want to thank Congressman Adam Schiff for his help, and for being such a loyal and faithful supporter,” said Gary Yamauchi, a member of the Board of Directors for the Go For Broke National Education Center. “I know that our veterans are going to be extremely delighted, and in their own quiet way, we are very, very proud.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Stars and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.
07.30.10	07.30.10 Schiff Effort to Improve Expedited Treatment to our Troops Included in Defense Appropriations Bill Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Defense Appropriations bill includes $1 million for UCLA’s Center for Advanced Surgical and Interventional Technology. The funding will be used to build on core technologies previously developed by UCLA to allow for the rapid delivery of vital treatments. Development of these technologies would be especially desirable for use in the military to provide health care to soldiers wounded in combat, where acute injuries commonly arise and earlier treatment can save lives.“This funding will support the development of technologies that enable more rapid, mobile, and coordinated delivery of treatment, not only to the brave men and women in uniform and on the battlefield, but also to the general public,” Rep. Schiff said. “Although the bill still has several more legislative hurdles to clear, inclusion of the funding in the measure is a very positive step.”“First, we want to thank Congressman Schiff for his interest in and support of UCLA’s Center for Advanced Surgical and Interventional Technology (CASIT),” said A. Eugene Washington, MD, Vice Chancellor Health Sciences and Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA. “These funds would help us create a new program – “Technologies for Rapid Response in Interventional Medicine”— that would develop systems to enable fast, mobile and networked delivery of less invasive and easier to use interventional medical solutions. Potential applications for the military are obvious. But ultimately these systems would improve the delivery of health care for everyone.”“The purpose of CASIT and our research is primarily to improve the quality of care and delivery of care to the warfighter,” said E. Carmack Holmes, M.D., Executive Director, CASIT. “However, the information and knowledge we collect can also be translated to benefit the civilian sector. We are thankful to Congressman Adam Schiff for helping secure this funding for CASIT to meet our infrastructure needs and support our important research.”
07.29.10	07.29.10 Schiff Introduces the Questioning of Terrorism Suspects Act of 2010 Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced legislation to allow for more thorough interrogations of suspected terrorists. Rep. Schiff’s Questioning of Terrorism Suspects Act of 2010 will ensure that, in terrorism cases, the courts broadly interpret the public safety exception to the Miranda warning requirement, allow the government adequate time to question a suspect before bringing the suspect before a magistrate, and clarify that Miranda does not apply in most cases when a suspect is in foreign custody.“The foiled attacks of the Times Square bomber and the Christmas Day bomber have demonstrated the unique national security concerns implicated when terrorism suspects are captured in the United States,” Rep. Schiff said. “Our law enforcement and intelligence agencies have gained important intelligence by interrogating the suspects in these cases, and this bill seeks to ensure that they will continue to have every opportunity to do so with other suspects in the future. The provisions of this bill will help guarantee our national security needs are met, while establishing a level of due process that is consistent with our adherence to the rule of law.”“The application of Miranda poses some important and challenging issues in the context of terrorism,” said Philip B. Heymann, James Barr Ames Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. “Rep. Schiff’s proposal is a fair and effective approach to balancing the competing security and civil liberties concerns.”The Questioning of Terrorism Suspects Act of 2010 declares that the “public safety exception” to Miranda allows for interrogation of terrorism suspects, without providing Miranda warnings, for as long as is necessary to protect the public from imminent threat from pending or planned attacks. Terrorist attacks have often involved multiple perpetrators and simultaneous attacks, and an extended interrogation may be necessary to protect the public in these cases. The bill expresses Congressional intent that this "public safety" exception be broadly read by the courts in terrorism cases.In addition, under current law confessions are rendered inadmissible if given during periods of detention that violate the prompt presentment requirement in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure. In practice, this has been found to require that a suspect must be presented before a magistrate within six hours of his arrest or his confession may be thrown out.To ensure that authorities have sufficient time to interrogate terrorism suspects, the Questioning of Terrorism Suspects Act of 2010 extends this period to 48 hours in the case of terrorism suspects, provided that the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence (or their deputies) certify, within six hours of arrest, that the individual is a terrorism suspect and may be able to provide intelligence necessary to protect the public. The period may be extended for an additional 48 hours for good cause shown.Finally, some courts have held that Miranda warnings apply to some overseas custodial interrogations conducted by foreign officials, namely when the interrogation is a joint venture in which U.S. officials are participants. However, in many cases, the full warnings set out in Miranda cannot be provided to terrorism suspects in foreign custody, since the rights referenced may not be available to the individual in that particular country. The Questioning of Terrorism Suspects Act of 2010 declares that Miranda warnings are not required during overseas questioning of a terrorism suspect in foreign custody.Rep. Schiff was the first in Congress to introduce legislation addressing the status of enemy combatants in 2002 and has introduced numerous bills on the issue subsequently. Rep. Schiff is a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, the Judiciary Committee, and the Appropriations Committee. He also served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles for six years successfully trying national security cases.
07.29.10	07.29.10 A Tribute to the First United Methodist Church of Burbank CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMadam Speaker, I rise today to recognize the 125th anniversary of the First United Methodist Church of Burbank, California.In 1883, when Burbank was a rural area with a population of a few scattered families, the community needed a place for worship, so a Sunday School was organized in the Providencia School House. One year later, on September 14, 1884, a church, located at Empire Avenue and Lincoln Street, was dedicated. After four years of use, the church wassold to a congregation member and a new church was erected in 1888, one year after the establishment of the City of Burbank. The church was established as the Providencia Church, and eventually merged with the First Methodist Episcopal Church, taking the latter's name. In 1919, construction began on a new church at Olive Avenue and Third Street, which was completed and dedicated in October of 1922.After World War II, the church membership grew to 1,000 parishioners, signaling the need for a new church building. In 1944, a building fund campaign began and property was purchased on Glenoaks Boulevard. In 1949, another fundraising campaign was launched to construct a new church on the Glenoaks property, and one year later, construction began on the new church, which became known as the First Methodist Church of Burbank. On May 25, 1952, the first official services were held in the First Methodist Church of Burbank and Consecration Sunday was held on September 14 later that year. The full construction plan was realized in 1956 with the completion of the Education Building. In 1968, when the Methodist Church and the Evangelical United Brethren Church merged, and the entire denomination changed its name, First Methodist Church of Burbank became known as the First United Methodist Church of Burbank.First United Methodist Church of Burbank offers a wide variety of programs and ministries to the Burbank community. The church hosts multiple Girl Scout troops, Boy Scout Troop #209, Cub Scout Pack #225, and offers opportunities for youth that include the Partners with the Parents Program and the Youth in Performing Arts Ministry. Other programs include the We Care Committee, which supports members of the congregation when they need assistance with meals, transportation and other services, as well as active chapters of the United Methodist Women and United Methodist Men organizations. In addition, members of the congregation volunteer on a regular basis at Burbank Temporary Aid Center and actively support our military by periodically sending care packages of personal items, telephone cards, books and other items to our troops overseas.I consider it a great privilege to recognize First United Methodist Church of Burbank and I invite all Members to join me in congratulating the congregation for 125 years of service to the community.
07.27.10	07.27.10 House Votes to Rescind Unobligated Funding for Earmarks; Hold Government Accountable Washington, DC — Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) supported and the House passed H.R. 5730, the Surface Transportation Earmark Rescission, Savings and Accountability Act, to rescind more than $700 million in unobligated funding for 309 earmarks contained in previous surface transportation authorizations. The legislation will also clear the books of the projects to ensure the funding cannot be used to increase spending in the future. “Many of these unobligated balances are tied to projects that are no longer viable or have not received the necessary matching funds from state or local entities; or are projects that have been completed yet still contain funding balances that are no longer needed for the designated project,” Rep. Schiff said. “By eliminating excess funds that have remained unused by states for nearly 20 years, this legislation builds upon ongoing efforts to efficiently and effectively manage taxpayer dollars.”Other steps to restore fiscal responsibility have included:Statutory PAYGO (PL 111-139), requiring Congress to offset the costs of tax cuts or increases in entitlement spending with savings elsewhere in the budget. If the net effect of all legislation enacted during a session of Congress increased the deficit, there would be an across-the-board reduction in certain mandatory programs. Provisions going after waste, fraud and abuse – such as cracking down on waste, fraud, and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid.The FY 2011 budget, which sets a limit on discretionary spending ($7 billion below the President’s budget and $3 billion below the Senate resolution). The Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act to go after improper federal payments that cost taxpayers an estimated $98 billion in FY 2009. The IMPROVE Acquisition Act, saving taxpayers an estimated $27 billion a year by cleaning up defense acquisition spending.The Government Efficiency, Effectiveness and Performance Improvement Act that will cut government waste by shining light on ineffective programs.The Surface Transportation Savings Act, rescinding $107 million in unspent contract authority – thereby ensuring that these funds will not be used to increase spending in the future.
07.27.10	07.27.10 House Passes Legislation to "Keep the Spirit of '45 Alive" Washington, DC — Last night, the House passed H.Con.Res. 226, legislation co-sponsored by Rep. Schiff to designate the second Sunday of August as a day of remembrance for World War II.“This legislation pays tribute to the millions of men and women of the ‘Greatest Generation,’ who contributed so much to ensure a better future for their children and grandchildren,” Rep. Schiff said. “I am pleased that the House passed this legislation and hope the Senate will act prior to Aug. 14, which marks the 65th anniversary of the war's end.”On Sunday, April 18, Rep. Schiff met with Edith Shain and Warren Hegg of “Keep the Spirit of ’45 Alive,” a campaign to honor the legacy of service of the men and women of America's "greatest generation." Shain, who recently passed, was the nurse made famous by the kiss in New York’s Times Square on Aug. 14, 1945, marking the end of World War II. Although the proud sailor was a stranger to Shain, their kiss was captured in a photograph and became the iconic image of America's elation for the end of the war.More recently, on July 3, Rep. Schiff attended the Spirit of ’45 event at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, where he thanked and honored WWII veterans from all the military service branches.“I hope this resolution will help to bolster awareness of the importance of coming together as a community and a nation, honoring service to others, and creating a sense of unity as we tackle the challenges and opportunities of the future,” Rep. Schiff said.(Photo attached from April 18, 2010): Rep. Schiff with Edith Shain, 91, who was a 27-year-old nurse at Doctor's Hospital in New York at the time her infamous kiss was captured in a photograph by the famous Alfred Eisenstadt.
07.26.10	07.26.10 Schiff, Sherman and Berman Urge Exemption from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act for Burbank Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports Washington, DC — In a letter to House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica, Reps. Brad Sherman (CA-27), Adam Schiff (CA-29) and Howard Berman (CA-28) urged inclusion of a measure in the legislation reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to address an oversight in the Airport Noise and Capacity Act (ANCA) of 1990 that has had a tremendous impact on Southern California. “When Congress enacted ANCA, it exempted from the law’s new requirements many airports that had noise rules already in effect,” Rep. Schiff said. “Both the Burbank Bob Hope and Van Nuys Airports have had noise restrictions, including partial and voluntary curfews, in effect for more than a generation but neither airport fit precisely within any of the narrow exemptions in the 1990 law. For many of the same reasons that several other airports were exempted when ANCA was enacted in 1990, these two airports should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act as well.”“Unfortunately,” said Rep. Berman, “the FAA has long been willing to disregard the impact that nighttime flight operations have on communities living by the Burbank Bob Hope and Van Nuys airports. I have constituents whose sleep is routinely disturbed by aircraft taking off or landing at all hours of the night from these airports. The inclusion of this measure would help ensure that the FAA gives fair consideration to the concerns of those who must live with airport noise day in and day out.”Full text of the letter:Dear Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica:As you conclude work on a long-term reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), we write to urge your assistance in including a provision in the legislation to address an oversight in the Airport Noise and Capacity Act (ANCA) of 1990 that has had a tremendous impact on our region of Southern California.When Congress enacted ANCA, it exempted from the law’s new requirements many airports that had noise rules already in effect. The Burbank (Bob Hope) and Van Nuys Airports in the Los Angeles area both have had noise restrictions, including partial and voluntary curfews, in effect for more than a generation but neither airport fit precisely within any of the narrow exemptions in the 1990 law. The proposed provision would clarify that, for many of the same reasons that several other airports were exempted when it was enacted in 1990, these two airports should be exempted from the Airport Noise and Capacity Act. In the case of the Bob Hope Airport, this was one of the first airports in the country to impose a curfew. The Van Nuys curfew was a partial curfew that applied to some, but not all, operators. The language would allow Burbank and Van Nuys Airports to adopt non-discriminatory curfews applicable to all operators from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m.The proposed amendment would apply only to airports that already had at least a partial curfew in effect before 1990 when ANCA was enacted. The legislation is designed to address the omission of not allowing curfews at these two airports, but is not intended to open the door to any further exemptions from that Act.Furthermore, the provision would address concerns that the FAA cited in rejecting Burbank’s Part 161 application for a curfew – that it would add congestion to an already crowded airspace and it would impact the national system of airports because it would cause system wide delays. The proposal would have a minimal impact on local airspace because a joint curfew for both airports is designed to ensure that air traffic is not shifted from one airport to the other. Additionally, as Van Nuys Airport is part of a larger consortium of airports, including one of the largest in the country, LAX, that is willing and able to accept nighttime traffic the consortium can structure and implement the curfew in a manner that ensures that it does not negatively affect local and national airspace.Accordingly, we request that you include the following language in the FAA reauthorization legislation:(a) Section 47524, written assurances prescribed pursuant to section 47107, and any other provisions of subtitle VII of Title 49, United States Code shall not be applied in a manner that would prohibit or materially interfere with: (1) A local action by an airport sponsor to implement and enforce a mandatory nighttime curfew for all aircraft between 10 p.m. to 7 a.m., where (i) the airport had a voluntary curfew in effect for some aircraft on November 5, 1990, and (ii) the airport was created by intergovernmental agreement pursuant to state statute enacted before November 5, 1990 where both the agreement and the statute impose obligations concerning noise mitigation. (2) A local action by an airport sponsor to implement and enforce a mandatory nighttime curfew for all aircraft from 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. at a general aviation airport where (i) the airport had a partial curfew in effect prior to November 5, 1990; (ii) the airport operates under the supervision of a board of airport commissioners that oversees operation of three or more airports, at least two of which have airport operating certificates pursuant to 14 C.F.R. Part 139; and (iii) the airport as of January 1, 2010, failed to comply with the cumulative noise standard established by state law for airports in the state. (b) Prior to imposing a mandatory nighttime curfew pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, each airport sponsor must provide reasonable notice to airport users and to other potentially affected and interested parties of the terms of and penalties for violating such restriction, and may implement a restriction no earlier than 90 days from the notice required hereunder. The requirement for “reasonable notice” shall be satisfied if the airport sponsor: (1) posts the terms of the restriction on its website, and (2) provides such terms to known direct tenants of the airport sponsor who operate aircraft at the airport, either at their leasehold or the address they have provided to the airport for receipt of notices under their lease. Sincerely, Brad Sherman Howard Berman Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
07.23.10	07.23.10 Schiff Secures Funding in Appropriations Bill for Station Fire Road & Trail Improvements Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the InteriorAppropriations bill includes $500,000 to provide forStation Fire Road and Trail Improvements.“The Station Fire burned 160,577 acres on the Angeles National Forest from August 26 to October 16, 2009, and in most areas, the fire burned the vegetation completely denuding the landscape, causing extensive erosion and landslides during subsequent winter storms,” Rep. Schiff said. “This funding will help repair the roads and trails that were damaged in the fire to restore safety and access for families to enjoy one of California’s greatest natural resources.”The Angeles National Forest Engineering staff estimate that approximately 300 miles of roads and 225 miles of trails were damaged during the fire and subsequent erosion and landslides. The affected roads no longer provide access to large portions of the forest and the affected trails are no longer safe or passable by recreational hikers. California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a disaster for the area, on February 11, 2010.The repair of roads will include emergency road opening, slide removal, road prism reconstruction including retaining walls, reconstruction of low water crossings, repair or replacement of drainage devices, grading of surfaces, patching and repaving of asphalt surfaces and signing. Priority will be given to repair critical roads that access large areas, which cannot be accessed otherwise. The repair of trails will include slide removal, repair of tread surfaces, slope stabilization, and drainage improvement.
07.23.10	07.23.10 Schiff Now Accepting Applications for Fall 2010 Congressional Page Program Washington, DC – Each semester, the leadership of the Democratic and Republican parties select Members of the U.S. House of Representatives by random lottery draw to nominate students for the House Page Program. Today,Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he won the lottery this year and now has the opportunity to nominate a student from the 29th Congressional District to be part of the Page Program during the fall of 2010. “The House Page Program is a great opportunity for students to come to Washington, DC, experiencing Congress in action and assisting with official House duties,” Rep. Schiff said. “The Page Program is a tradition more than 200 years old, and I encourage all high school students in our community to apply.”Among other things, House Pages deliver correspondence and legislative material throughout the Capitol Complex. They also work within the Democratic and Republican cloakrooms taking messages and answering phones.Applications can be found on Rep. Schiff’s website here. Applications should be submitted to Rep. Schiff’s Pasadena office no later than July 30. For more information, please contact Rep. Schiff’s Pasadena office at 626-304-2727.
07.22.10	07.22.10 House Passes Schiff Legislation to Protect Children from Predators Washington, DC– Every year, people who have been convicted of criminal offenses volunteer to spend unsupervised time with children. Fortunately, a nationwide FBI fingerprint search, part of the PROTECT Act pilot program, prevented many such offenders from volunteering – possibly protecting children from harm.To build on the success of the pilot and make these essential background checks permanently and widely available to youth-serving organizations, Rep. Schiff sponsored H.R. 1469, the Child Protection Improvements Act of 2009. The legislation, which passed the House today, would:Ensure that youth-serving organizations, all across the country, would have access to FBI fingerprint searches in a timely and affordable manner;Streamline the process of obtaining nationwide background checks through the creation of a new national Applicant Processing Center; andProtect the privacy rights of volunteers by ensuring that all volunteers have a chance to correct errors in the records."Giving non-profits that work with children the ability to better screen their volunteers has a proven track record of protecting our young people," Rep. Schiff said. "The goal of this bill is to keep the cost of background checks as low as possible so that they remain affordable for the smallest non-profits, while ensuring the program can be sustained without annual appropriations. This will greatly benefit the millions of children and adults across the country involved with mentoring organizations, after-school programs, youth sports, and more.”More than 89,000 FBI fingerprint checks have been conducted through the child safety pilot, and 6.1 percent of potential volunteers were found to have criminal records of concern – more than 5,300 individuals. In addition, more than 40 percent of individuals with criminal records had crimes in states other than where they were applying to volunteer – meaning that only a nationwide check would have caught the criminal records. Outside of the pilot, just one-third of states currently allow youth-serving organizations to access FBI searches. Even when these searches are available, high costs and lengthy response times often make them inaccessible.“As the nation’s largest and oldest youth mentoring organization, keeping children safe is the first consideration for Big Brothers Big Sisters,” said Karen Mathis, Chief Executive, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America. “The Child Protection Improvements Act will ensure that every Big Brothers Big Sisters affiliate has access to accurate, affordable, and timely background check information about potential volunteers. I thank Congressman Schiff, a former Big Brother himself, for his leadership and for his work on this vital legislation.”“I commend Congressman Adam Schiff and the House of Representatives on the passage of the Child Protection Improvements Act,” said Larry Wright, President and CEO of MENTOR. “This legislation builds on the success of the Child Safety Pilot, first passed in 2003, which showed that background checks are necessary to keep children safe, and that the checks can be done quickly, cheaply, and accurately. With the passage of this bill by the House, we have taken a step to serving the millions of children in the United States who benefit from mentoring by dedicated volunteers.”
07.22.10	07.22.10 President Signs Measure to Eliminate Billions in Wasteful Spending Into Law Washington, DC– Today, President Obama signed the bipartisan Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act, which was co-sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) to curb waste, fraud and abuse in government spending, saving taxpayers up to $98 billion.“Fiscal responsibility is as important as ever; American families have been tightening their belts and eliminating excess spending from their budgets, and the Federal government should do the same,” Rep. Schiff said. “Taxpayers expect their hard-earned dollars to be used in the most effective and efficient ways possible, not wasted on overpayments or careless accounting mistakes. The legislation signed into law by the President today is one of several bills aimed at rooting out waste and increasing efficiency by auditing government agencies, and assessing their progress in reaching their objectives.”According to the Office of Management and Budget, federal agencies made an estimated $98 billion in improper payments in FY2009. These improper payments may occur as a result of fraud or from poor financial management systems that do not detect or prevent mistakes before federal dollars are misspent.The legislation on its way to the President’s desk will help identify, reduce and eliminate improper payments, and recover lost funds that federal agencies have improperly disbursed. Specifically, the bill contains provisions to require agencies to develop and report on action plans to avoid future wasteful spending. It will also lower the threshold for reporting improper payments, increase audits to hold agencies accountable, and make top agency managers responsible for reducing improper payments.Rep. Schiff recently joined 58 of his colleagues in sending a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), urging them to ensure that deficit reduction continues to be a top priority of Congress and the Administration, and to take meaningful steps to reduce spending and pay for our priorities now and in the future.“Since my election to Congress, I have been a strong advocate of balancing our budget and paying down our national debt,” Rep. Schiff said. “Failure to put in place budget enforcement mechanisms that restrain the growth in deficit spending will only make the problem worse in the future.”Below is the full text of the letter to Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer:Dear Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer:We can no longer put off addressing the nation’s fiscal crisis, which was created by years of mismanagement and has been exacerbated by the recent economic crisis. Failure to put in place and properly enforce budget enforcement mechanisms that cut and restrain the growth in federal spending will only make the tough, necessary decisions harder to achieve in the future.Markets around the world, including ours, were shaken by the debt crisis in Europe. Many economists point to the U.S.’s high levels of debt and wonder if our country is heading towards a similar fate. While our economy is still recovering and more needs to be done to create jobs, it is critical that we balance these investments with offsets over the long run.We recognize and understand the need for the emergency designation as narrowly defined in the statutory PAYGO law recently passed by the House and signed into law by President Obama. However, we have made a commitment to pay for our priorities. It is critical that we uphold our efforts to restore fiscal discipline to the federal government by not using this tool for anything other than it is intended – a true, unforeseen emergency.Extending critical, economic investments is no more important than paying for them. America is facing a debt crisis that is threatening to undermine our economic and national security. We can no longer afford to exacerbate the problem because the decisions about how to pay for what we spend are getting harder.We stand ready to work together with you to ensure that deficit reduction continues to be a top priority of Congress and the administration, and to take meaningful steps to reduce spending and pay for our priorities now and in the future.
07.20.10	07.20.10 Schiff Secures Funding in Appropriations Bill for Job Training Program Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill includes $180,000 to provide for the instruction offered in Glendale Community College's partnership with Glendale Water & Power and the Verdugo Workforce Investment Board to develop the Infrastructure/Water and Power Academy.“Job growth is critical to our country’s economic recovery, and this partnership will help prepare residents to obtain a good paying job in a field with a high demand for trained technicians,” Rep. Schiff said. “The bill still has several more legislative hurdles to clear, but inclusion of the funding in the measure is a very positive step.”The comprehensive program will include training for linemen, power generating operations, electrical power engineering, water treatment and waste management in an intense, 16-week training program.“Glendale Community College is really excited about the opportunities that this additional funding will provide, and we appreciate the continued support from Rep. Schiff as we collaborate with partners in the community to produce a more educated workforce,” said Dr. Dawn Lindsay, the President of Glendale Community College. “Expanding our curriculum to increase training for jobs that are currently available will help our students become employed quicker and expand economic independence within our community.”
07.20.10	07.20.10 Schiff Submits Story of Sarkis Saryan, Survivor of the Armenian Genocide, into the Congressional Record Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) submitted an additional story to be included in the Congressional Record – one of many submissions into the national record as part of Rep. Schiff’s Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project.“The survival story submitted today builds upon previous stories that have been submitted into the Congressional Record to help document and preserve the accounts of Armenians who survived the Armenian Genocide,” Rep. Schiff said. “This submission contributes to the effort to raise awareness about the issue, and educate Members of Congress now and in the future on the necessity of recognizing the Genocide carried out by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923.” The Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project, pioneered by Rep. Schiff, is part of an ongoing effort to parallel H. Res. 252, the Congressional resolution he sponsored to recognize and commemorate the Genocide. Rep. Schiff continues to encourage survivors of the Genocide and their families from throughout the country to participate in the project by sending in the stories of what happened to their family during the Genocide. Please send your family's story to Mary Hovagimian in Rep. Schiff’s Pasadena office at mary.hovagimian@mail.house.gov.Below please find the story submitted today as included in the Congressional Record: Hon. Adam Schiff California Wednesday, June 30, 2010 Rep. Adam B. Schiff Mr. SCHIFF. Madame Speaker, I rise today to memorialize and record a courageous story of survival of the Armenian Genocide. The Armenian Genocide, perpetrated by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923, resulted in the death of 1.5 million Armenian men, women, and children. As the U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire Henry Morgenthau documented at the time, it was a campaign of "race extermination."The campaign to annihilate the Armenian people failed, as illustrated by the proud Armenian nation and prosperous diaspora. It is difficult if not impossible to find an Armenian family not touched by the genocide, and while there are some survivors still with us, it is imperative that we record their stories. Through the Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project, I hope to document the harrowing stories of the survivors in an effort to preserve their accounts and to help educate the Members of Congress now and in the future of the necessity of recognizing the Armenian Genocide.This is one of those stories: A Genocide Survivor from Piran: Sarkis Saryan’s StoryTranslated by Levon A. Saryan, Ph.D.“In January of 2008, I traveled to Beirut to participate in the International Symposium on the Culture of Cilician Armenia, which was held under the sponsorship of His Holiness Aram I, Catholicos of the Great House of Cilicia. One morning, as I took my seat in the meeting hall, I turned around and introduced myself to two women scholars seated behind me, Dr. Verjine Svazlyan and her daughter Knarik Avagyan. Both were among the contingent of academics from Yerevan who were participating in the symposium. As we got to talking (the usual “where are you from, where are your parents from” questions that Armenians are so fond of), Dr. Svazlian removed from her briefcase a small book that she had written and opened it to a page containing several photographs. After searching for a moment, she pointed to one of the photos. It was a picture of my father, whose account was one of several hundred that Dr. Svazlian has been collecting over the years. Dr. Svazlyan transcribed my father’s story in July 1999 at the Louvre Museum in Paris, when they were both attending the Sixth International Conference of Armenian Linguistics. My father’s account was not contained in the small book she showed me, but it is recorded in Armenian in Dr. Svazlyan’s major work, Hayots Tseghaspanutiun: Aganades Verabroghneri Vgayutiunneruh (Armenian Genocide: The Testimonies of Eyewitness Survivors), published in Yerevan by the Republic of Armenia National Academy of Sciences in 2000. After returning to Yerevan, Knarik kindly sent me a scan of the relevant pages from this book, enabling me to prepare this translation. “The village of Piran is located on the southern slopes of the Taurus mountain range, approximately midway between the towns of Palu (to the north) and Diarbekir (to the south). Kharpert is to the west, and Sassoun is to the east. Piran was a relatively small village, with probably less than 1,000 inhabitants. It does not appear on most maps. As we will see, it did not escape the fate of other Armenian towns and villages in the region. In 1915, through murder and deportation, Piran was nearly emptied of its Armenian inhabitants. “I present here an English translation of my father’s account as transcribed by Prof. Svazlyan. Some additions and clarifications are noted in brackets. I have also made a few minor factual adjustments based on our personal family knowledge.” ***** “For the most part, the inhabitants of our village were Kurds; there were a few Turks, and the rest were Armenians. Our village was not far from the source of the Tigris River. The Tigris begins at Dzovk Lake; Dzovk is where Nerses Shnorhali was born. Dzovk was one and one-half days away from us. In the spring, the Tigris River flowed so swiftly that it would carry trees with their roots in its current. I have seen how, if the trees became tangled in the river, some swimmers would enter the water and straighten the trunks so that the water could flow unimpeded. Four or five miles from Piran, our village, there was a red rock outcropping, where wild bees made honey which would collect in a hole [in the rock]. Our villagers would go [to this place] with pans to collect the honey, fill their pans, and take it home. “I was born in 1911. My father’s name was Krikor, my uncle’s name was Garo, my grandfather, Sarkis. Three months before the Great Catastrophe, I awoke to find myself on my grandmother’s back. My father had been taken in handcuffs to the police house. The last time I saw my father he was tied with handcuffs. All of the Armenian men in the village were taken from the prison and driven to the northeast. Later, the Kurds told us that all of them had been killed.“It was a hot day in the month of July, 1915. The Kurds had come; they were sitting in the shade of a tree watching the proceedings. The command for deportation had arrived and everywhere there was confusion. The Turkish gendarmes were saying to each other: “Firman geldi, bir giavourn kafa kalmaiachak.” (Turkish for “an official command has arrived, not one infidel (Armenian) head shall remain.”)“Although at that time I was only 4 years old, I remember it well. I did not want to go into exile. Our family was put onto the road before noon. They were taking the road toward the nearby Kurdish village of Kalbin, the one we used when taking our herds to graze. The flocks went, the dust rose, and our family went. My mother, my older sister Haygouhi (seven years old), my younger sister Esther (2 years old), and my four-month old brother Haygaz. My little sister and my brother became tired on the road to exile, and began to cry. The gendarme [accompanying the caravan] took Esther and Haygaz and threw them into the Tigris River. My mother fled and my older sister Haygouhi was kidnapped. My father’s brother’s son was small; they killed his mother with a dagger, and they also killed little Ghevont since his mother would not obey the soldiers. Hermig, one of our neighbors, had escaped from the caravan. She returned to the village and told us what had happened to them.“I did not go with them. Because I sensed the coming danger I went and hid in our stable. A military policeman came, found me and took hold of me, and placed me on a donkey. I did not want this, and started to cry. I got down from the donkey, and again went and hid myself in the stable. Once more, the military police came and found me, and again they placed me on the donkey. Again I let myself down, and this time I went to the tree where the Kurds were sitting, and mixed with them. They belonged to the Zaza tribe and spoke the Kurmanji dialect; they were our friends and neighbors. Imagine, just at that moment my grandmother came from behind me. She was a folk doctor; she would dry various types of flowers and use them to treat eye diseases, and cure people. People would compensate her for her services with tomatoes, peppers, madzoun (yogurt), and so forth. [Because of this skill, she was allowed to remain in the village.] “I had a 15-year-old uncle [whose name was Kaloust], who was taken all day for interrogation. It was he who shoed all the horses in our village. Consequently, the Turks needed a craftsman like him in the village. For that reason they allowed him to remain in the village, and I stayed with him. The next year we were Islamized, we became Zaza and Kurmanji, but in the house we spoke Armenian. A mullah came, and my name became Sefer. I, my uncle, and Hovhannes (whose name became Haso) were circumcised. I remember that there was a terrible pain. That part of my body felt like it was on fire. They took that part of my body and dried it in the sun, keeping it as evidence.“We stayed with the Kurds for four years, until 1919. In those years we would travel by donkey north, south, east, and west, tinning copper pots. My job was to [stoke the fire by] working the bellows. Hovhannes-Haso worked with us. He would pulverize rocks, fill them in the copper pots and mix them with his foot, cleaning the inside of the pot so that the tin would adhere. My uncle would collect old nails which we would warm in a fire until they became soft, and make new nails. One day, in this fashion, we made 1,500 nails. “Southeast of our village were Kurdish villages named Kalbin and Shekhmalan. I have been to those villages. There was an Islamized Armenian married woman who lived there. I was there one night. I heard some whispering that the Islamized Armenians, because they had been reduced to starvation, had decided to enter the wheat fields at nighttime and steal grain. The grain belonged to them, they had cultivated the wheat in those fields, but the Kurds had taken it. The following day it became apparent that they had taken the grain, since one of their bags had a hole in it and the grain, falling out of the bag, had left a trail.“East of our village was the Kurdish village of Deiran, where the Kurds lived in conical stables. I went, and saw that the wheat was ripe in the fields around us as we walked to Deiran village. The weather was so hot that the fields behind us ignited and started to burn, but we were not harmed. The Kurds were the losers, since for them this was ill-gotten gain.“The war was over by 1919. My father’s brother Simon had enlisted as a volunteer [gamavor in Armenian] in the Armenian legion of the French Army. The young men trained in Cyprus, and then went to Adana and fought. “[Simon came to our village and found that I had survived. He wanted to take me to America. First,] we came to Dikranagert [Diarbekir], then Mardin, where there was a railway. There was a fortress on a very high hill. The railroad was down below, in a valley. The train only came once a week, so we went to the station a day early and slept there, waiting for the train.“Many Armenians were going to Aleppo and we, with them, were also going to Aleppo. There was nothing to eat, and I was ill with a strong fever. My Uncle Simon somehow got me into the railway wagon, so that I could reach Aleppo quickly. From one side the French soldiers were pulling me onto the train, while on the other side the Turkish soldiers were trying to pull me off. Simon was unable to come with me, but he gave me his volunteer’s cap. This was the Berlin-Baghdad railway that brought us to Aleppo. When I reached Aleppo, I put the cap on my head, and the Armenian volunteers found me and took [care of] me. We had a relative named Baghdadian, who had reached Aleppo with his young son, but a Turk had struck him in the head and blinded him. He took me in and kept me until my uncle arrived the following week. Since my uncle was a volunteer, he could travel for free. First he returned to America, and in 1921 he sent me money and I also came to America. “I became a chemist. Later, I went to Beirut to study Armenian at the Jemaran [Collège Arménièn]. There, my teachers were Levon Shant, Nigol Aghbalian, and others. We learned to sing in Gananchian’s chorus. There I met Armine [Manoukian, my future wife]. Later, she came to America. Now we have two sons and two daughters. One son is a physician and the other is a biochemist. Our daughters work in the financial industry. We have eight grandchildren. The Turks reduced our numbers, but we increased them.“I am also a writer and I study the relationship of Armenian to other sister Indo-European languages. I have published a book on this topic [Language Connections: Kinship of Armenian with Sister Indo-European Languages].” Verjine Svazlian, The Armenian Genocide and the People’s Historical Memory (Yerevan: Armenian Academy of Sciences, 2005). This is an English language summary of the main book, but does not contain individual survivor accounts. Saryan’s account is found on pp. 236-237.
07.20.10	07.20.10 On Passage of the Child Protection Improvements Act CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESI thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank Chairman Scott for his leadership on this issue.Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1469, the Child Protection Improvements Act. I first introduced this legislation in 2007 with my colleague Mike Rogers of Michigan. The Child Protection Improvements Act would ensure that any mentoring organization or child-serving nonprofit will be able to obtain an affordable, fast, and accurate background check of a potential volunteer.About 25 years ago, I began as a volunteer with Big Brothers, Big Sisters. Big Brothers paired me with an extraordinary young man named David. I've always said that I've learned as much or more from David as he ever learned from me. The experience also helped me understand the huge amount of trust we put in volunteers at organizations all around the country. In the vast majority of cases, the trust is well placed; but, unfortunately, there are exceptions.For that reason, in 2003, Congress created the Child Safety Pilot Program to demonstrate the feasibility of allowing youth-serving nonprofits to access FBI background checks. The FBI maintains a database of criminal histories from every State in the Nation searchable by fingerprint. An FBI search is the gold standard background check, as it cannot be evaded by using a fake name and it will find convictions from every State. I believe the gold standard is what we should strive for when it comes to protecting children who are put in potentially a vulnerable situation.Since 2003, almost 90,000 background checks have been performed through the pilot. In 94 percent of the cases, the background check returns no serious criminal history. However, in 6 percent of the cases, a record of some kind was found, in some cases an extensive record which the applicant attempted to conceal. In 23 percent of those cases, the applicant gave a name other than the one in their criminal history. Applicants were found with convictions for everything from murder to child abuse to sexual assault; and frequently those convictions were from out of State so that only an FBI background check would have found them.We have demonstrated that background checks for nonprofits working with children can be conducted quickly, affordably, and accurately. Three times since 2003, Congress has acted to extend the pilot so that thousands of community organizations all over the country don't lose access to background checks for their volunteers. It's time to create a permanent system, one that will protect children while ensuring the civil rights and privacy of volunteers.Again, I want to thank Chairman Conyers, one of the original cosponsors; Chairman Scott, the chairman of the subcommittee; my colleague, Mike Rogers; and all other Members who have contributed to this effort and urge the Members to vote “yes.”
07.19.10	07.19.10 Schiff Meets with Armenian Genocide Survivor, Submits His Story of Survival into the Congressional Record Washington, DC – After meeting with Armenian Genocide SurvivorHaroutioun Andonian, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) submitted his story to be included in the Congressional Record – one of many submissions into the national record as part of Rep. Schiff’s Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project.“This summer, I had the opportunity to meet with Haroutioun Andonian, a 101-year-old survivor of the Armenian Genocide living in our community,” Rep. Schiff said.“Today, I submitted his survival story into the Congressional Record, and I hope that it will contribute to a better understanding of the nature of the genocide, raise awareness of the issue, and help educate the Members of Congress on the imperative of recognizing the Armenian Genocide.”Rep. Schiff meets with Armenian Genocide survivor Armenian Genocide Survivor Haroutioun AndonianThe Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project, pioneered by Rep. Schiff, is part of an ongoing effort to parallel H. Res. 252, the Congressional resolution he sponsored to recognize and commemorate the genocide carried out against Armenians by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923. Rep. Schiff continues to encourage survivors of the Genocide and their families from throughout the country to participate in the project by sending in the stories of what happened to their family during the Genocide. Please send your family's story to Mary Hovagimian in Rep. Schiff’s Pasadena office at mary.hovagimian@mail.house.gov.Below please find the story submitted today as included in the Congressional Record: Hon. Adam Schiff California Thursday, June 15, 2010 Rep. Adam B. Schiff Mr. SCHIFF. Madame Speaker, I rise today to memorialize and record a courageous story of survival of the Armenian Genocide. The Armenian Genocide, perpetrated by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1923, resulted in the death of 1.5 million Armenian men, women, and children. As the U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire Henry Morgenthau documented at the time, it was a campaign of "race extermination."The campaign to annihilate the Armenian people failed, as illustrated by the proud Armenian nation and prosperous diaspora. It is difficult if not impossible to find an Armenian family not touched by the genocide, and while there are some survivors still with us, it is imperative that we record their stories. Through the Armenian Genocide Congressional Record Project, I hope to document the harrowing stories of the survivors in an effort to preserve their accounts and to help educate the Members of Congress now and in the future of the necessity of recognizing the Armenian Genocide.This is one of those stories:Submitted by Nareg Krumian, the grandson of Haroutioun Andonian:“Haroutioun Andonian was born in Gurun Turkey in 1909 and grew up with his father, mother, grandmother and younger sister. At the age of 6, his father and mother were separated from him, his sister and his grandmother. His father was arrested by Turkish soldiers and his mother was taken away. He still remembers a line of people bound to each other at their wrists and being marched away from his village. Among them was Haroutioun’s father, whom he never saw afterwards. He never saw his mother again either. He was rounded up with his sister, grandmother and other neighbors by another group of soldiers and taken away to various cities and villages. By the time they reached Aintab (presently called Gaziantep), his sister and grandmother were too weak from hunger and the forced marches that they lost their lives as well.“In Aintab, various Armenian, American and European aid workers tried to contain the situation of children left without family. The orphans were disbursed to various Armenian and Turkish homes throughout the villages of Aintab. Haroutioun remembers the name of Balaban Khoja, a teacher, who was instrumental in placing the orphans with families who wanted children. After going through several homes, Haroutioun lived with a lady who would later become his mother-in-law.“Around the time he was 10 years old, American and Danish missionaries began taking the children to orphanages in Lebanon and the U.S. Haroutioun was sent to Jbeil, a city in northern Lebanon, where he stayed until around 1925 when he was sent to France through the aid of the American charity Near East Relief. For a few years, he worked on a farm and later went to Paris to work at the Renault factory where he was responsible for chroming metal components. “In the early 1930s, Haroutioun found out that the lady who had cared for him last as a child in Aintab had herself been forced to evacuate her village with her family and was living in Aleppo, Syria. He went to Syria, began working in various fields such as trading in cloth and yarn, and managing Turkish baths that were still prevalent during that period. He also married his host mother’s daughter, Marie, with whom he had one daughter, Alice. “Haroutioun and Marie left Syria for the last time in 1987 and came to Los Angeles to join their daughter and her family. In 2002, he became a US citizen and shared a letter with the judge presiding over the procedure that he had kept for over 70 years. The letter was from the Near East Relief thanking Haroutioun for paying back funds he had borrowed during his journey to France. Though not obligated to do so, Haroutioun had felt that re-paying into the fund would allow other unfortunate people with the opportunity to rebuild their lives. To this day, he maintains that the government of Turkey and its soldiers took away his ability to know what it was to have a family but that today, living in the United States at the age of 101 amid his two grandchildren and six great grandchildren, he has become a king who has everything.”
07.19.10	07.19.10 Schiff Secures Funding in Appropriations Bill for Local Hospitals Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill includes $350,000 for the Rapid Cardiac Diagnostic Project at Glendale Memorial Hospital and Health Center and $435,000 for the AHMC Health Foundation’s Mobile Health Screening Program.“Funding for these projects will help us meet the health needs of our communities by expanding access to care and improving the treatment that patients receive,” Rep. Schiff said. “The bill still has several more legislative hurdles to clear, but inclusion of the funding in the measure is a very positive step.”More than 30 percent of inpatients at Glendale Memorial are admitted because of heart disease. The Glendale Rapid Cardiac Diagnostic Project will upgrade Glendale Memorial Hospital and Health Center with state-of-the-art hardware and software, enhancing the Heart Center’s ability to provide timely and proper identification of the cause of chest pain. It will also allow the hospital to provide a higher level of service through enhanced diagnostic imaging capabilities.“At Glendale Memorial Hospital, we’re committed to providing the most comprehensive heart services for the community,” said Mark A. Meyers, president of Glendale Memorial Hospital. “This funding is very important to ensuring our community has the access to the highest quality of heart care services, and we appreciate Congressman Schiff’s support. With chest pain, every minute matters. By diagnosing chest pain at an early stage, it can be treated more effectively and improve quality of life for the members of our community.” The AHMC Health Foundation will use the funding to acquire a mobile health van and the equipment necessary to provide no-cost health screenings, immunizations and health education to individuals who have limited language skills, are uninsured or underinsured, or lack transportation. The program's emphasis on early detection and preventative care will help to reduce the country's raising health care costs, while also reducing disease mortality and morbidity from heart disease, cancer, diabetes, and hepatitis. It will also increase community awareness of health risk factors. Further, it will provide easy access to free screening and immunization services and provide continuity of care. The geographical area served by the program will include mainly the western San Gabriel Valley region including the cities of San Gabriel, Alhambra, Monterey Park, Rosemead, Temple City, El Monte, South El Monte, El Sereno, Montebello, and Pasadena.“The Mobile Health Screening Van, once put into service, will enable AHMC Health Foundation to greatly expand its existing community health screening program and provide free health screening services in locations that are easily accessible by the community,” said AHMC Health Foundation President Phil Cohen. “We are very grateful that Rep. Schiff is advocating accessible health care services for the residents of San Gabriel Valley, especially for new Asian and Latino immigrants who are the most vulnerable.”
07.14.10	07.14.10 Matthew Hovsepian Serves as Student Intern in Rep. Schiff's Pasadena Office Washington, DC – Out of dozens of students who applied, Glendale’s Matthew Hovsepian earned a spot in the Pasadena office of Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), serving as a student intern this summer. Matthew is going into his third year at the University of California, Irvine, and is currently working toward a BA in Political Science and Criminology, Law and Society. “As a college student, I was an intern for Congressman George Miller (now one of my colleagues), where I first learned the value of internship experiences for elected officials, students and staff,” Rep. Schiff said. “I enjoy the opportunity to interact with bright young people like Matthew, and hope to provide him with as rewarding experience as I had with Congressman Miller.”Several of Rep. Schiff’s current and former staff members were student interns either in his office or with other elected officials. Students interested in applying for fall or winter internships in Rep. Schiff’s office can obtain an application form by clicking here.“Internships are a great way to get you feet wet and provide valuable hands-on experience to determine if a career in public service is the right choice,” Rep. Schiff said.Matthew, who says he has always been interested in politics and the American political process, leveraged his passion for American politics to earn an internship with State Senator Carol Liu’s office last summer. His positive experience at the state level with Senator Liu motivated him to strive for an internship at the Federal level with Rep. Schiff this summer.“Although I just recently started my internship at Congressman Schiff’s office, working with his staff and assisting constituents has been an amazing experience that I will never forget,” Matthew said. “As one of the Congressman’s constituents, I believe his tenacity and knowledge of issues facing our district are both commendable and admirable,” Matthew continued. “Also, as an Armenian-American, I greatly appreciate Congressman Schiff’s continual support for the recognition of the Armenian Genocide, and support for Armenia, and Armenian-American issues.”In addition to his academic endeavors, Matthew is involved in a pre-law fraternity and the UCI Law Forum Program, which allows students interested in law to take specific academic classes that improve debating, speaking, and logical and analytical skills.Matthew’s future goals include pursuing a legal career and staying politically active.To apply for an internship in the District Office, return completed application to:Kathleen Miles, District Scheduler / Congressman Adam B. Schiff87 N. Raymond Ave. #800 / Pasadena, CA 91103FAX: (626) 304-0572 • For more information, call (626) 304-2727.To apply for an internship in the Washington, D.C. office, return completed application to:Patricia Higgins, Staff Assistant / Congressman Adam B. Schiff2447 Rayburn House Office Bldg./ Washington, D.C. 20515FAX: (202) 225-5828 • For more information, call (202) 225-4176.
07.14.10	07.14.10 Schiff Joins in Urging House Leadership to Reduce Spending, Balance the Budget, and Pay for National Priorities Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) joined 57 of his colleagues in sending a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD), urging them to ensure that deficit reduction continues to be a top priority of Congress and the Administration, and to take meaningful steps to reduce spending and pay for our priorities now and in the future.“Since my election to Congress, I have been a strong advocate of balancing our budget and paying down our national debt,” Rep. Schiff said. “Fiscal responsibility is now as important as ever; American families have to make tough decisions to balance their own budgets and the federal government should do the same. Failure to put in place budget enforcement mechanisms that restrain the growth in deficit spending will only make the problem worse in the future.”Below is the full text of the letter that Rep. Schiff sent to Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer:Dear Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer:We can no longer put off addressing the nation’s fiscal crisis, which was created by years of mismanagement and has been exacerbated by the recent economic crisis. Failure to put in place and properly enforce budget enforcement mechanisms that cut and restrain the growth in federal spending will only make the tough, necessary decisions harder to achieve in the future.Markets around the world, including ours, were shaken by the debt crisis in Europe. Many economists point to the U.S.’s high levels of debt and wonder if our country is heading towards a similar fate. While our economy is still recovering and more needs to be done to create jobs, it is critical that we balance these investments with offsets over the long run.We recognize and understand the need for the emergency designation as narrowly defined in the statutory PAYGO law recently passed by the House and signed into law by President Obama. However, we have made a commitment to pay for our priorities. It is critical that we uphold our efforts to restore fiscal discipline to the federal government by not using this tool for anything other than it is intended – a true, unforeseen emergency.Extending critical, economic investments is no more important than paying for them. America is facing a debt crisis that is threatening to undermine our economic and national security. We can no longer afford to exacerbate the problem because the decisions about how to pay for what we spend are getting harder.We stand ready to work together with you to ensure that deficit reduction continues to be a top priority of Congress and the administration, and to take meaningful steps to reduce spending and pay for our priorities now and in the future.
07.14.10	07.14.10 House Sends Measure to Eliminate Billions in Wasteful Spending to President's Desk Washington, DC– Today, bipartisan legislation to save taxpayers up to $98 billion cleared its last major hurdle on the way to the President’s desk. The House passed S. 1508, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act, which was co-sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) to curb waste, fraud and abuse in government spending.“Fiscal responsibility is as important as ever; American families have been tightening their belts and eliminating excess spending from their budgets, and the Federal government should do the same,” Rep. Schiff said. “Taxpayers expect their hard-earned dollars to be used in the most effective and efficient ways possible, not wasted on overpayments or careless accounting mistakes. The legislation on its way to the President is one of several bills aimed at rooting out waste and increasing efficiency by auditing government agencies, and assessing their progress in reaching their objectives.”According to the Office of Management and Budget, federal agencies made an estimated $98 billion in improper payments in FY2009. These improper payments may occur as a result of fraud or from poor financial management systems that do not detect or prevent mistakes before federal dollars are misspent.The legislation on its way to the President’s desk will help identify, reduce and eliminate improper payments, and recover lost funds that federal agencies have improperly disbursed. Specifically, the bill contains provisions to require agencies to develop and report on action plans to avoid future wasteful spending. It will also lower the threshold for reporting improper payments, increase audits to hold agencies accountable, and make top agency managers responsible for reducing improper payments.Rep. Schiff also joined 57 of his colleagues in sending a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) today, urging them to ensure that deficit reduction continues to be a top priority of Congress and the Administration, and to take meaningful steps to reduce spending and pay for our priorities now and in the future.“Since my election to Congress, I have been a strong advocate of balancing our budget and paying down our national debt,” Rep. Schiff said. “Failure to put in place budget enforcement mechanisms that restrain the growth in deficit spending will only make the problem worse in the future.”Below is the full text of the letter that Rep. Schiff sent to Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer:Dear Speaker Pelosi and Leader Hoyer:We can no longer put off addressing the nation’s fiscal crisis, which was created by years of mismanagement and has been exacerbated by the recent economic crisis. Failure to put in place and properly enforce budget enforcement mechanisms that cut and restrain the growth in federal spending will only make the tough, necessary decisions harder to achieve in the future.Markets around the world, including ours, were shaken by the debt crisis in Europe. Many economists point to the U.S.’s high levels of debt and wonder if our country is heading towards a similar fate. While our economy is still recovering and more needs to be done to create jobs, it is critical that we balance these investments with offsets over the long run.We recognize and understand the need for the emergency designation as narrowly defined in the statutory PAYGO law recently passed by the House and signed into law by President Obama. However, we have made a commitment to pay for our priorities. It is critical that we uphold our efforts to restore fiscal discipline to the federal government by not using this tool for anything other than it is intended – a true, unforeseen emergency.Extending critical, economic investments is no more important than paying for them. America is facing a debt crisis that is threatening to undermine our economic and national security. We can no longer afford to exacerbate the problem because the decisions about how to pay for what we spend are getting harder.We stand ready to work together with you to ensure that deficit reduction continues to be a top priority of Congress and the administration, and to take meaningful steps to reduce spending and pay for our priorities now and in the future.Rep. Schiff is a member of the fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition, which was formed in 1995 with the goal of furthering fiscal responsibility, and advancing a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. Eliminating improper government payments is a critical component of Blue Dog efforts to reduce the deficit, balance the budget and lay the groundwork for sound fiscal policies over the long term.
07.12.10	07.12.10 Schiff Secures Funding in Appropriations Bill for Planning, Design of New Burbank Central Library Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that $100,000 is included in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for the planning and design of a new, LEED-compliant Central Library in Burbank. The bill still has several more legislative hurdles to clear, but inclusion of the funding in the measure is a very positive step.“Burbank’s current Central Library no longer has the capacity needed to accommodate the increase in circulation and customers,” Rep. Schiff said. “Funding for this project will improve the quality of life for the entire community by expanding access to the much-needed public services that the library provides.”According to Burbank Library Services Director Sharon Cohen, use of the Burbank Public Library system is up 83 percent since 2002, and continues to grow by leaps and bounds. At the Central Library, usage is up 7 percent and circulation jumped to 1.5 million last year.“The City is very pleased and grateful to Congressman Schiff for fighting to secure funding to kickoff the planning and design of our new library,” said Burbank Mayor Anja Reinke. “In these tough economic times, we especially appreciate any help we can get to improve public services and outreach. We look forward to receiving the funding, which will provide work for local consulting firms in the short term and long-term benefits to everyone who uses our library, from the very youngest to the very oldest members of our community.”Preliminary construction cost estimates for the new building total about $53 million. The project would provide work for geotechnical, surveying, architectural, and engineering professionals, followed by one to two years of employment by construction and construction management teams.
07.08.10	07.08.10 2007 Press Releases
07.06.10	07.06.10 Schiff Secures Funding to Begin Environmental Work on Phase 2B of the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that $650,000 is included in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for the Gold Line Foothill Extension Construction Authority to secure NEPA environmental clearance to start phase 2B of the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension. The Authority has already secured environmental clearance for phase 2A, construction of which broke ground on June 26.“The 29th Congressional District encompasses some of the fastest-growing communities in Los Angeles County, and we need to build the infrastructure to accommodate the growth in our region,” Rep. Schiff said. “Best of all, this project will create jobs and spur much-needed economic activity in our communities.”The Foothill Extension Light Rail Transit Project (LRT) Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) plan and design expands the Metro Gold Line LRT approximately 24 miles east of the City of Pasadena to the City of Montclair. The extension starts at Sierra Madre Villa station in Pasadena and connects the downtown areas of Arcadia, Monrovia, Duarte, Irwindale, and Azusa in phase 2A; and Glendora, San Dimas, La Verne, Pomona, Claremont and Montclair in phase 2B.“Congressman Schiff has been a visionary on this project for more than a decade, and we are grateful for his continued support,” said Habib Balian, CEO of the Construction Authority. “Communities all along the corridor have been waiting for this funding and are eagerly awaiting the commencement of construction on phase 2B of this project. This funding will allow the project to complete the last step in the process, and readies it for funding and then construction.”Phase 2B of the Foothill Extension will extend the LRT line nearly 12 miles, and include construction of 6 stations and associated parking facilities. In addition, the Foothill Extension will widen existing bridge structures to accommodate three tracks, construct about 30 at-grade crossings with gate protection, as well as an extension of the existing Metro Gold Line Phase I power, signaling and communications systems.
07.06.10	07.06.10 Schiff Secures Funding for Improvements to Charles White Park Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that $300,000 is included in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for Los Angeles County’s Department of Parks and Recreationto help make improvements to Charles White Park. "This funding will help Charles White Park improve the quality of life for families in our community by providing a place to play, gather and socialize," Rep. Schiff said. "Improvements to this park are essential and long overdue. I'm very pleased that we are on the cusp of a major upgrade of this open space."Rep. Schiff has put a spotlight on the need to make substantial improvements to the bare-bones facility that is currently Charles White Park. In 2009, he secured $190,000 for the LA County Department of Parks and Recreation to conduct a feasibility study to determine what improvements should be made to the park to better serve local residents. The completed feasibility report recommended five new recreation opportunities for community residents, including a group picnic area, basketball court, walking path and a series of exercise stations. LA County’s Department of Parks and Recreation has applied for grants at the local and state level to match the federal funds included in the THUD Appropriation bill to complete the recommendations of the study.“We are very excited to hear that funding for Charles White Park has been approved by the Appropriations Subcommittee,” said LA County Parks and Recreation Director Russ Guiney. “Congressman Adam Schiff has been a strong supporter of the Altadena community and provided previous funds to support planning for the park. In that process, community members identified improvements they would like to see such as a picnic shelter, shade structures and a walking path. These funds will help make these improvements happen and in the process will provide jobs during construction. This is all important in transforming a grassy area to a first-class community park.”
07.01.10	07.01.10 Schiff Secures Funds to Provide Job Training for Youth in Commerce, Justice and Science Bill Washington, DC– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill includes $100,000 to provide smart grid technology job training in our community. Target occupations will include electrical meter installers, meter testers, communications technicians and verification/test technicians.“This funding is focused on the need for job training for young people trying to enter the job market for the first time,” Rep. Schiff said. “It will provide an opportunity for young people to equip themselves with marketable skills in a growing field so they can gain employment, even in a challenging economy. This investment will not only benefit youth in our community by preparing them for the working world, but it will also further the development and use of smart grid technologies that create local jobs, protect our environment and help consumers save money.”The project will be developed and implemented through a collaboration of four primary partners. The Verdugo Workforce Investment Board will oversee and administrate the project; Glendale Community College will provide classroom instruction; Glendale Youth Alliance, which specializes in employment of at-risk youth in Glendale and Burbank, will recruit eligible trainees and refer them to the college; and Glendale Water and Power will provide internships and on-the-job training to the trainees. Qualified trainees may be selected for permanent, full-time jobs as they become available.“We are so thankful to Rep. Schiff for recognizing the need to create career opportunities for youth in our community,” said Don Nakamoto, the Executive Director of the Verdugo Workforce Investment Board. “We are facing major labor shortages, not just locally in Burbank, Glendale and Pasadena, but all across the country. This funding will help introduce at-risk youth to opportunities in an industry that could grow into a longer-term occupation for them. We hope this program will provide the training needed to open up a whole a new career path for the youth in our community.”
07.01.10	07.01.10 Securing America: President Obama and Nuclear Weapons CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMr. Speaker, the recent vote in the United Nations Security Council to impose a new round of tougher economic sanctions on Iran was a significant national security success for the United States, and part of President Obama's broader push to reduce the threat of nuclear terrorism or accidental nuclear exchange.For years there has been a broad consensus that a terrorist attack with a nuclear weapon is the gravest threat facing our country. During the 2004 Presidential debates, both Senator John Kerry and President Bush pointed to such an attack as the ultimate nightmare scenario. Unfortunately, the prior administration failed to make nonproliferation a priority and blocked any progress at the 2005 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty Review Conference, putting the international nonproliferation regime at risk.President Obama came into office pledging to make nuclear nonproliferation a priority, and he has delivered on multiple fronts: First, by increasing American and international pressure on Iran; and second, by working with Russia and others to reduce both countries' stockpiles of nuclear weapons and material.The Iran resolution, one of the most important to emerge from the Security Council in years, is a triumph for American diplomacy. When the President took office last January, the United States was diplomatically isolated, and unwilling to engage in the hard work of diplomacy that would pressure Iran to engage seriously with the international community. But that has now changed.The U.N. resolution increases the pressure on Iran to abandon its quest for nuclear weapons by expanding the list of organizations and individuals subject to financial restrictions and travel bans. And significantly, it also prevents and prohibits most conventional arms sales to Iran, a major step considering that veto-wielding Russia and China have been Iran's major arms suppliers for years.While Iran has remained outwardly defiant in the wake of the June 9 resolution, the U.N. resolution was quickly followed by a fresh round of European Union sanctions, and by our passage of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, which was signed into law today by President Obama. These new sanctions have had an immediate effect. Just days after Congress passed the legislation, France's Total, the last major Western energy company dealing with Iran, announced that it would stop providing refined petroleum to Tehran, while South Korea's GS Engineering and Construction canceled a $1.2 billion gas project in Iran.The stakes are clear. If Tehran's nuclear weapons program were to bear fruit, elements of the Iranian regime could divert a weapon or materials to a terrorist group under its control, perhaps Hamas or Hezbollah. An Iranian bomb could also trigger a nuclear arms race in the world's most volatile region. This cannot be allowed to happen. And President Obama and this Congress are determined that it shall not happen.The last 2 years have also seen a revitalization of our efforts to assert American leadership in nuclear nonproliferation. President Obama was the leader in the Senate on nuclear terrorism and nonproliferation issues. I had the pleasure of working with him then to strengthen the International Atomic Energy Agency's inspection program. Now as President, we are again working together, and the President recently signed legislation that I authored to develop our nuclear forensic capability.The President has also proposed budgets that significantly increase investment in nonproliferation efforts and technologies. He understands we can't face this threat alone. There are 50 tons of unsecured nuclear material around the world. And to succeed in bringing it under lock and key, we must convince many Nations that this is a security risk for all.Last September, the President led an extraordinary meeting of the Security Council to bring nuclear security the worldwide attention it needs. And this April he hosted the largest summit meeting that America has ever seen to convince world leaders that this is not only an important problem, but an urgent one. The summit produced a worldwide consensus to secure nuclear materials around the world within 4 years, a groundbreaking plan that the administration and Congress are now implementing.On April 8, President Obama signed a treaty with Russia to cut nuclear weapons by 30 percent. This too is a crucial step forward. By working with Russians to reduce their arsenals and ours, we remove unthinkably dangerous weapons from high alert, and demonstrate that building nuclear weapons is not a sign of a world power; getting rid of them is.There is much work yet to be done. But President Obama and the leadership in Congress have clearly returned the issue of nonproliferation to the center of the policy debate, where it belongs.
07.01.10	07.01.10 Schiff Secures Funds to Update South Pasadena's First Responder and Police Technology in the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill includes $85,000 to update the City of South Pasadena’s first responder and police technology. Specifically, the funding will be used to purchase interoperable communication equipment for the City’s first-responder vehicles, including mobile data terminals, radios, software, and needed supplies to command at an on-site location.“Providing our first responders with the tools and equipment they need is critical to keeping families and neighborhoods in South Pasadena safe,” Rep. Schiff said. “This funding will enhance our first responders’ coordinated efforts to keep us safe by providing the in-house resources needed to respond to emergencies and gather information that can lead to apprehension of a suspect in a criminal investigation.”“We’re very pleased with Congressman Schiff’s work to help our first responders, and we are very appreciative to receive this funding,” said South Pasadena Mayor Richard Schneider. “Any time there’s an emergency, the first thing to break down is communications. When we have people who are ready and able to help in the event of an emergency or a crime, we need to be sure we allocate our resources as efficiently as possible. This funding for training and interoperable communication equipment will allow our first-responder vehicles to serve all sections of the city with secure and effective communication systems.”
06.30.10	06.30.10 Schiff Supports, House Passes Legislation to Rein in Wall Street, Protect Consumers Washington, D.C.– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) supported and the House passed the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to hold Wall Street accountable, end taxpayer bailouts for banks, and create a consumer financial protection bureau, putting consumers first. “The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will rein in the shoddy business practices and excessive speculation that characterized the meltdown of 2009, bringing our economy to the brink of ruin,” Rep. Schiff said. "These reforms are essential to restore accountability and transparency to our financial system, and to protect hard-working Americans from having their livelihood once again threatened by the irresponsible actions of others."The legislation passed the House by a 237-192 vote to ensure taxpayers never again pay the price for irresponsible behavior on Wall Street. Specifically, the bill creates a process to shut down failing firms, whose collapse would put the entire economy at risk. After exhausting all of the company’s assets, additional costs would be covered by a “dissolution fund,” to which all large financial firms would contribute.The bill also creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices, including predatory credit card and mortgage lending that saddles consumers with loans they have no chance of paying back. This independent bureau will provide clear and accurate information to families and small businesses to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable. Just like the FDA does for medical safety, the CFPB will set safety standards to prevent practices such as hidden credit card fees, deceptive “fine print,” and other financial abuses that have escaped oversight thus far.The bill has been called the “strongest set of Wall Street reforms in three generations” by Elizabeth Warren, Chair of the nonpartisan Congressional Oversight Panel, and has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations. The bill was publicly debated for more than 50 hours, and includes over 70 Republican and bipartisan amendments.
06.30.10	06.30.10 Schiff Secures Additional Funding for Regional DNA Lab in Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Commerce, Justice and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill includes $1 million in additional funding to expand the capacity of the Regional Law Enforcement DNA Laboratory in Glendale. This new federal investment builds upon the $1.5 million that Rep. Schiff secured to build the lab.“Increasing the capacity of Glendale’s Forensic DNA Lab will help take murders and rapists off the streets, and improve public safety in Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank and the surrounding communities,” Rep. Schiff said. “Providing the lab with additional resources and state-of-the-art technologies will enable a quick analysis of DNA samples, helping our communities solve crimes faster and keep our families safer.”“Los Angeles County is the densest and most populated county in the nation, and with that comes increased concern for crime, as well as the need to investigate crime thoroughly and appropriately,” said Glendale Police Department Captain Ray Edey. “However, the two labs currently operating in the area are overwhelmed, resulting in many crimes going uninvestigated because we do not currently have the capacity to assess them. This lab will be the first congressionally appropriated and supported full-scale lab of its kind in the state of California, with capacity to manage the DNA trace evidence load to help take criminals off the street.”California currently has approximately 28,000 unsolved cases in which DNA evidence is present. The state routinely compares 1.4 million offender DNA profiles with the 28,000 unsolved cases, producing between 300 and 400 investigative leads each month.“Congressman Schiff’s special insight and hard work helped make the DNA program a reality, and we are very proud that this program will be located in and affiliated with the City of Glendale,” said Glendale Mayor Ara Najarian. “This funding will go a long way to reduce the backlog of DNA cases that are currently waiting prosecution.”Rep. Schiff also secured $725,000 in the CJS Appropriations bill for Los Angeles County, as well as $725,000 for the City of Los Angeles, to support overtime and outsourcing to private labs to ensure every rape kit in the city and county is processed and uploaded into CODIS. Additionally, Rep. Schiff worked to include $750,000 in the bill to expand the Cold Hit Outcome Project pilot program state-wide, creating an electronic database that would allow the California Department of Justice to help local prosecutors and law enforcement agencies to more successfully prosecute cold hit DNA cases.Congressman Schiff is also a lead co-sponsor of the Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act, which passed the House on May 18. The legislation makes “Katie’s Law” the national standard, encouraging states to maximize the potential of forensic DNA to solve and prevent violent crimes by collecting a DNA sample upon arrest at the same time as fingerprints -- for certain felony crimes.
06.30.10	06.30.10 Schiff Supports, House Passes Legislation to Rein in Wall Street, Protect Consumers Washington, D.C.– Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) supported and the House passed the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to hold Wall Street accountable, end taxpayer bailouts for banks, and create a consumer financial protection bureau, putting consumers first. “The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will rein in the shoddy business practices and excessive speculation that characterized the meltdown of 2009, bringing our economy to the brink of ruin,” Rep. Schiff said. "These reforms are essential to restore accountability and transparency to our financial system, and to protect hard-working Americans from having their livelihood once again threatened by the irresponsible actions of others."The legislation passed the House by a 237-192 vote to ensure taxpayers never again pay the price for irresponsible behavior on Wall Street. Specifically, the bill creates a process to shut down failing firms, whose collapse would put the entire economy at risk. After exhausting all of the company’s assets, additional costs would be covered by a “dissolution fund,” to which all large financial firms would contribute.The bill also creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new consumer watchdog devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices, including predatory credit card and mortgage lending that saddles consumers with loans they have no chance of paying back. This independent bureau will provide clear and accurate information to families and small businesses to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable. Just like the FDA does for medical safety, the CFPB will set safety standards to prevent practices such as hidden credit card fees, deceptive “fine print,” and other financial abuses that have escaped oversight thus far.The bill has been called the “strongest set of Wall Street reforms in three generations” by Elizabeth Warren, Chair of the nonpartisan Congressional Oversight Panel, and has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and US PIRG, among other organizations. The bill was publicly debated for more than 50 hours, and includes over 70 Republican and bipartisan amendments.
06.17.10	06.17.10 Schiff Supports Legislation to Help Small Businesses Access Credit Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) supported and the House passed legislation to boost lending to small businesses struggling to gain access to credit as a result of the financial crisis, helping them retain and hire more workers.“Small businesses are the engines of job creation in this country and will be the birthplace of our economic recovery,” Rep. Schiff said. “This legislation is another step to partner with small businesses, expanding access to much-needed capital to help them grow, hire more workers and fuel our economic recovery.”Small businesses created two-thirds of the new jobs over the last 15 years. However, a lack of credit and tight lending standards left 45 percent of small businesses seeking loans unable to have their credit needs met in 2009. The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act (H.R. 5297; passed today) and Small Business Jobs Tax Relief Act (H.R. 5486; passed Tuesday) are fully paid for and will be combined to:Leverage up to $300 billion in loans for small businesses through a $30 billion lending fund for small and medium-sized community banks, which focus on lending to small firms, and $2 billion for innovative state lending programs supporting small business;Restart private investment to meet small businesses’ evolving financing needs through a new SBA public-private partnership; andProvide $3.5 billion in bipartisan tax incentives to spur investment in small businesses and the formation of new small businesses, and grant small business tax penalty relief. According to the CBO, all of the funding in the Small Business Lending Fund will be repaid with interest, resulting in a $1 billion profit over the next decade for American taxpayers.This lending bill has earned support from the National Small Business Association, Small Business Majority, National Association of Realtors, Conference of State Bank Supervisors, Independent Community Bankers of America, American Bankers Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization and National Bankers Association
06.09.10	06.09.10 Schiff Applauds UN Vote on Iran Sanctions Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement today after the UN Security Council passed a resolution on Iran sanctions:“Despite four rounds of UN sanctions, including today’s passage of tighter finance curbs and an expanded arms embargo, Iran has not been deterred in its quest to develop nuclear weapons. “While this latest round of sanctions is a welcome step, there is deep skepticism that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the hard-line clerics who rule Iran can be dissuaded from their present course. An Iran armed with the bomb would be catastrophic, further destabilizing the Middle East and triggering an arms race in the region.“President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have done a great service to Israel, to the greater Middle East and to the cause of international peace and security through their efforts to forge a consensus in the Security Council, and I offer them my personal thanks. “But, even as we applaud today’s sanctions vote, we must redouble our efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. I look forward to further diplomatic and unilateral initiatives to convince Tehran that the costs of continuing on this reckless path are greater than any perceived benefit.”
06.09.10	06.09.10 Rep. Schiff Applauds UN Vote on Iran Sanctions Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement today after the UN Security Council passed a resolution on Iran sanctions:“Despite four rounds of UN sanctions, including today’s passage of tighter finance curbs and an expanded arms embargo, Iran has not been deterred in its quest to develop nuclear weapons. “While this latest round of sanctions is a welcome step, there is deep skepticism that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the hard-line clerics who rule Iran can be dissuaded from their present course. An Iran armed with the bomb would be catastrophic, further destabilizing the Middle East and triggering an arms race in the region.“President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have done a great service to Israel, to the greater Middle East and to the cause of international peace and security through their efforts to forge a consensus in the Security Council, and I offer them my personal thanks. “But, even as we applaud today’s sanctions vote, we must redouble our efforts to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons. I look forward to further diplomatic and unilateral initiatives to convince Tehran that the costs of continuing on this reckless path are greater than any perceived benefit.”
06.08.10	06.08.10 New Steps to Expand Communication and Connectivity Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that he is taking new steps to expand communication and connectivity with constituents in California's 29th Congressional District, including his participation in the Online All-Star Competition from June 7 until June 21."Online social networks like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube present an unprecedented opportunity for me to directly engage with my constituents," Rep. Schiff said. “For this reason, we are going beyond our weekly e-newsletter and Facebook efforts, and kicking off Twitter and other social media. I will also be participating in the Member Online All-Star Competition and hope we can engage an even greater number of my constituents online." Winners of the Online All-Stars will be selected based on the total new Facebook fans, Twitter followers and YouTube subscribers acquired during the two-week contest. To help Rep. Schiff in the competition, add him as a friend on Facebook:www.facebook.com/CongressmanSchiff; follow him on Twitter:http://Twitter.com/RepAdamSchiff; and subscribe to his YouTube channel:http://www.youtube.com/user/AdamSchiff. "I look forward to increasingly using my Facebook page, YouTube channel and new Twitter account to ensure Californians are kept abreast of the work I am doing in Congress," Rep. Schiff said. “I will be sending out updates via these new-media channels so my constituents can find the most up-to-date information, and share their thoughts with me in an even more timely way. Please join our efforts and let me know what you think!" Rep. Schiff also urges constituents to sign-up for his Washington Update e-Newsletter if they haven't already, which provides information on his work in Washington, DC. Constituents are able to sign-up for the e-Newsletter on Rep. Schiff's Web site:http://schiff.congressnewsletter.net/mail.
06.07.10	06.07.10 Rep. Schiff Congratulates SpaceX on the Falcon 9 Rocket Launch Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement, congratulating SpaceX on successfully launching its Falcon 9 Rocket: “The successful launch of the first Falcon 9 rocket on Friday is a great accomplishment for SpaceX, California’s space industry, and America's future as the leader in space exploration. It is another piece of evidence that America’s innovative, high-tech companies can make getting to orbit less expensive and more reliable. The impressive progress of SpaceX should enable NASA to focus on deep-space exploration that pushes the boundaries and inspires the world.”
06.04.10	06.04.10 Rep. Schiff, National Park Service Kick Off Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resource Study Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) kicked off the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resource Study with the National Park Service at the Eaton Canyon Nature Center. The study will help to determine what portions of the Rim of the Valley might be eligible to be included in the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area and to receive Federal assistance or protection. It will offer recommendations for resource protection, public use and enjoyment, as well as opportunities to think creatively about how to protect natural and cultural resources while enhancing the quality of life in our community."California’s wilderness lands, including the Southern California foothills, are treasures that we must continually work to preserve for our children and our children’s children to enjoy,” Rep. Schiff said. “Today’s kickoff of the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resource Study is the culmination of a nine-year effort. The Study is a locally- driven process to develop a plan that balances preservation, recreation, and the needs and interests of those living in and around the area."Rep. Schiff first introduced Rim of the Valley Corridor Study legislation several years ago and it was included in the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 (S. 2739) and signed into law by President Bush in May 2008."The Rim of the Valley features spectacular natural beauty and recreational opportunities surrounded by vibrant cultural landscapes,” said Woody Smeck, Acting Deputy Regional Director, National Park Service, Pacific West Region. “We look forward to working with all stakeholders on appropriate conservation strategies."“We will be working closely with the National Park Service to provide input for this study, which is designed to evaluate alternatives for collectively managing the various land resources within the proposed corridor,” said Jody Noiron, Forest Supervisor, Angeles National Forest.The Corridor consists of parts of the Santa Monica Mountains, Santa Susanna Mountains, San Gabriel Mountains, Verdugo Mountains, San Rafael Hills, and adjacent connector areas to the Los Padres and San Bernardino National Forests—in essence many of the hills and mountains surrounding Burbank, Glendale, Pasadena, Altadena and other communities in our area.Key issues to be examined in the Rim of the Valley Corridor Special Resource Study include:Completion of the Rim of the Valley Trail System, including major feeder trails to connect adjoining communities and regional transit to the trail system;Resource and other needs of communities within, or in the vicinity of, the Rim of the Valley Corridor;Protection of wildlife habitat and linkages between major areas of open space;Preservation of recreational opportunities and access to open space for a variety of recreational users; andProtection of rare, threatened, or endangered species and rare or unusual plant communities and habitat.
05.28.10	05.28.10 Rep. Schiff Announces $1.6 Million Grant, Congratulates Glendale Fire Department Washington, DC - Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that the Glendale Fire Department has been awarded a $1.6 million grant under the Fiscal Year 2009 Assistance to Firefighters Grant through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Program. The funding, administered by the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency along with the U.S. Fire Administration, will be used to speed response times on fires. “Our fire fighters and first responders provide critically important services to keep our families and communities safe," Rep. Schiff said. "I congratulate Chief Scoggins and the Glendale Fire Department on being awarded this important funding, which will provide the Glendale Fire Department with the tools they need to continue their vital work and reduce emergency response times.” “On behalf of the 12 cities that our fire department provides dispatching services for fire and EMS, we are very pleased to have been awarded this $1.6 million Assistance to Firefighter Grant and thank Congressman Schiff for his support,” said Glendale Fire Department Chief Harold Scoggins. “These funds will help improve our response times, getting us out the door to respond to any given emergency in the communities that we serve even faster than we do today.”
05.28.10	05.28.10 Honoring Archbishop Hovnan Derderian CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMadam Speaker, I rise to commend Archbishop Hovnan Derderian on the 30th anniversary of his ordination into the Priesthood and the 20th anniversary of his elevation to the rank of Bishop. Archbishop Derderian is Primate of the Western Diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church of North America. The Western Diocese covers the Western United States.Archbishop Derderian was born in 1957 in Beirut, Lebanon. In 1980, he was ordained as a priest in the Armenian Apostolic Church. In 1987 Archbishop Derderian received his Master's Degree in Theology from Oxford University, and was raised to the rank of “Dzairakuyn Vartabed.” In 1990 he was elected Primate of the Diocese of the Armenian Church in Canada, and later in 1990, was ordained as a Bishop by His Holiness Vazken I. On February 18, 1993 he was made an Archbishop. In 2003, Archbishop Derderian was elected Primate of the Western Diocese of the Armenian Church of North America by the 76th Annual Assembly.Since being elevated to the rank of Archbishop, he has led many projects of great importance to the Church and the community. He created the Christian Youth Mission to Armenia in 2003 which builds ties between youths living in America to Armenia through travel and internship programs. Under his leadership, the Church is nearing completion of the first ever Cathedral of the Armenian Apostolic Church on the West Coast, located in Burbank, California. Additionally, since his appointment as Primate he has ordained five new priests to serve the Western Diocese.Archbishop Derderian's commitment to serving the faithful and the community are admirable. I congratulate him on his 30 years of service in the Priesthood and thank him for his leadership.
05.28.10	05.28.10 Honoring Betty White CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMadam Speaker, I rise today to honor Betty White, who is receiving the Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association's (GLAZA) Beastly Ball Award.Betty began her impressive performing career in the 1940s on the radio. Her first big break was in 1949 when she joined Al Jarvis on a daily, live, local television show, which she eventually hosted. In partnership with writer George Tibbles and producer Don Fedderson, she formed her own production company and produced her first comedy series, Life with Elizabeth, receiving an Emmy in 1952. Appearing frequently on major variety and game shows, she was a recurring regular with Jack Paar, Merv Griffin, and Johnny Carson, and a regular on Mama's Family.Ms. White's first appearance on The Mary Tyler Moore Show in the show's fourth season led to her becoming a recurring cast member, and her portrayal of Sue Ann Nivens, the Happy Homemaker, brought two Emmys for supporting actress in 1974-75 and 1975-76. She received her fourth Emmy for Best Daytime Game Show Host for Just Men. Nominated seven times for Best Actress in a Comedy Series for The Golden Girls, she won the Emmy in 1985, and won a sixth Emmy for Best Guest Actress in a Comedy Series in 1996 on The John Larroquette Show. Since 2000, Betty has appeared in Ally McBeal, That 70s Show, Boston Legal and The Bold and the Beautiful. In May 2010, Betty hosted Saturday Night Live, resulting in the long-running show receiving its highest ratings ever. In June of this year, she will appear in a new weekly TV Land Series, Hot in Cleveland. Betty's movies for television credits include Chance of a Lifetime, Stealing Christmas, Annie's Point, and Animal Planet's The Retrievers. Her big screen endeavors include Hard Rain, Dennis the Menace Strikes Again, Bringing Down the House, The Proposal, and You Again, which will be released in September 2010.Along with the Emmys, Betty has won numerous awards during her seventy-year career. They include the Pacific Pioneers in Broadcasting's ``Golden Ike'' Award, the Genii Award from American Women in Radio and TV, the American Comedy Awards' Funniest Female Award as well as their Lifetime Achievement Award. In addition, she was honored with the Career Achievement Award from the Television Critics Association, the Life Achievement Award from the Screen Actors Guild and the Lifetime Achievement Award in Acting from the American Women in Radio and Television. In 1995, Betty was inducted into the Television Academy's Hall of Fame.Betty's work on behalf of animals is close to her heart and legendary. She is President Emeritus of the Morris Animal Foundation, serving as a Trustee since 1972, a member on the Board of the Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association since 1974 and an eight-year Los Angeles Zoo Commissioner. Among the awards she has received for her work for animal welfare include the American Veterinary Medical Association's Humane Award, the Jane Goodall Institute's Lifetime Achievement Award, and an honorary doctorate from Western University Veterinary School as ``Doctor of Humane Veterinary Sciences.'' In 2006, Betty was honored by the City of Los Angeles with the title of “Ambassador to the Animals.”The time, energy and devotion Betty has given to GLAZA is extraordinary, and the residents of the greater Los Angeles area have benefited enormously from her generosity. I ask all Members of Congress to join me in commending Betty White upon receiving the 2010 Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association's Beastly Ball Award.
05.26.10	05.26.10 Rep. Schiff Testimony Before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) testified before the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, and called for a reconsideration and possible repeal of Forest Service policies prohibiting night time flights. Rep. Schiff’s testimony, as prepared for delivery before the Senate Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, was as follows:“Chairman Feinstein, Members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today about the challenges facing our wildland firefighters. These brave men and women perform vital, difficult work for long hours in dangerous conditions. We depend on them to protect our families, our homes and our forests, and they dedicate their time and sometimes their lives to that calling. Many of our firefighters have served for decades, developing the expertise needed to fight an unpredictable and resilient foe. I honor their service, and I hope that this hearing can help us provide them with the resources and support that they need to do their jobs in the safest and most effective way possible. “As the Chairman knows well, last summer the Station Fire ravaged the Angeles National Forest, burning 160,000 acres over 50 days, and threatening thousands of homes in my District and several adjacent districts. Almost all of the fire was contained to the National Forest, but, as usual, local, state and federal fire agencies across the region provided equipment and hundreds of firefighters to the effort. Two members of the Los Angeles County Fire Department, Captain Ted Hall and Firefighter Specialist Arnie Quinones, tragically lost their lives fighting the fire.“In addition, the Station Fire effort cost almost $100 million, a significant fraction of the Forest Service firefighting budget for the year. And because of its proximity to a major metropolitan area and its incredible expense, the fire illustrated many of the problems our firefighters face in the field, and why wildland firefighting has become increasingly expensive. “There were a couple of hundred fires in the Angeles Forest last year. Almost all of them were attacked and contained within 24 hours. Unfortunately, two fires escaped initial attack and spread across thousands of acres. Those two fires alone ate up much of the Angeles firefighting budget and caused almost all of the fire damage last year. Fire officials agree that the most important part of fighting fires is often the initial attack, which, if successful, keeps fires smaller, cheaper, and much safer for residents and firefighters. “In this respect, fighting fires is like health care, where early detection and aggressive action can prevent the need for long, painful and expensive care later. The cost and safety-conscious approach to fighting wildfire is to contain the fire early by making the initial attack as aggressively as possible, using as many firefighters and aircraft as possible, so that the hugely greater resources that are required to fight a massive fire are rarely needed. “The Station Fire was attacked promptly and aggressively by U.S. Forest Service and LA County Fire Department firefighters on the afternoon of Wednesday, August 26, 2009. Handcrews, engines and aircraft fought the fire until evening, when some resources were released. One night-flying helicopter, owned by LA County Fire Department was dispatched to the fire but was quickly diverted to perform its other responsibility—medical evacuation. “During the night, several hotspots developed in areas inaccessible to ground crews due to steep terrain and thick vegetation. The incident commander ordered aircraft for the next morning, to arrive at 7 a.m. Unfortunately, possibly due to limited resources and safety requirements for rest hours, the airtankers did not arrive until around 9 a.m. In the early hours, right after sunrise, the inaccessible hotspots flared up and threatened the road that firefighters were using to reach the fire, forcing a retreat, and the failure of the initial attack. As a post-action report from the LA County Fire Department stated: “[n]o one, no fire chief, no firefighter, resident or reporter can provide definitive evidence that anything would have made a difference in the outcome. Still we must look hard at every action. We must question and we must make changes where we can.” “One possible change is to equip the Forest Service with the capability to fly helicopters at night. There are night-flying helicopters in the Los Angeles area, but very few, and in the case of the Station Fire, they were unavailable for at least some portion of the crucial first night. If the Forest Service had a dedicated night-flying capability, it would dramatically increase night-flying firefighting capacity in the region. “Using night-vision goggles, the Forest Service operated night-flying firefighting helicopters on the Angeles National Forest during the 1970s. An accident in the late 70s caused many to question whether the risks of night flights were worth the rewards, and by the early 80s, the program had ended. The Forest Service and its contractors no longer have the training or equipment to fly at night. “However, the technology to enable night flying has developed dramatically in the three decades since. The LA County and LA City Fire Departments now fly helicopters at night, using technology several generations better than that of the 1980s. Military contractors have built ultra-modern night-flying systems for use by our forces overseas, and many of those technologies are now being developed for civilian use. In addition, many have concluded that much of the risk could be removed by operational changes that minimize the possibility of collisions in the two areas of greatest traffic and greatest risk—over the fire, and during landing and take-off.“In addition, a rapidly expanding urban-forest interface, modern, more-effective firefighting techniques, and a better understanding of the importance of early attack all mean that the need for night flights has dramatically increased since the 1970s. “The Forest Service must study this issue again, taking into account the increased need for aggressive firefighting techniques, as well as improved technology, which minimizes the risk to firefighter safety. I believe that if they do so, they will conclude that this is a capability they should once again acquire and deploy. Night-time flights are not a silver bullet, but they can significantly improve our ability to effectively fight fires near urban areas, and by helping reduce the number of catastrophic fires, they may save lives and pay for themselves. “The Angeles National Forest, like other forests across the country, has a rapidly growing urban area at its doorstep. Fires that start in the Forest and burn through remote, inaccessible areas can now threaten tens of thousands of people. The Forest Service employees and firefighters work hard to protect those people, but they are fighting an ever-more-difficult battle. We must be sure that we are providing them everything they need to fight fires in the safest, most cost-effective and most efficient way possible. “Chairman Feinstein, Members of the Subcommittee, thank you again for the opportunity to testify before the Subcommittee.”BackgroundIn March, Rep. Schiff proposed that the House Appropriations Committee include a provision in its 2011 funding bill directing the Forest Service to conduct a formal study on whether to acquire night-flying capability, as pioneered by the Los Angeles County Fire Department. Rep. Schiff called for the study to be completed within 90 days of the funding bill's enactment. In December, he asked for a Congressional inquiry into the night-flying prohibition, as well as the Forest Service's response to the Station fire that broke out in August, killing two fire fighters and devastating 250 square miles of the Angeles National Forest. Rep. Schiff also plans to convene a panel of Los Angeles-area Members of Congress to hear testimony from experts and local fire officials in the coming months. The panel will discuss issues that have been raised about decision-making during the early hours of the Station Fire.
05.20.10	05.20.10 The Gulf Oil Spill and the Future of Clean Energy CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMr. Speaker. In the short time I speak here today, thousands of gallons of oil will burst out of a broken well in the floor of the Gulf of Mexico. that oil will add to a catastrophic spill that is now spreading across a widening swath of ocean, coming ashore in Louisiana, and devastating the economy of the Gulf Coast. Every attempt to cap the gusher has failed, and it seems we can anticipate several more months of damage to our coastline, our fisheries and our environment.As a nation, we have been on an oil binge since the 1850s, when we started running out of our previous nonrenewable energy resource--whale oil. The wide-scale destruction that the whale hunts of the 19th century visited on our seas is now mirrored by the damage that offshore drilling is visiting upon the Gulf.Two decades ago, Congress first recognized the danger of offshore drilling and passed a moratorium banning it outside Alaska and the Gulf. In California, many will remember the 1969 Santa Barbara oil spill that spewed out almost 100,000 barrels of oil over eight days. Lax safety standards and corner-cutting were the immediate culprits in that spill, but the Gulf spill shows us that even with today's advanced technology, offshore drilling is fundamentally dangerous. Thousands of gallons of oil is spilled each year during normal operations. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita sent over half a million gallons into the Gulf. And even without spills, piping and onshore operations destroy wetlands, disturb wildlife and limit tourism.Californians are not willing to risk our tourism and fishing industries, or our pristine environment, with additional off-shore drilling, and I'm happy that the governor has stepped back from his plan for more drilling off the coast near Santa Barbara. Instead of more drilling, and more spills, Californians are leading the way to a high-tech, clean energy future.A few blocks from my office in Pasadena, you'll find a business incubator that has helped turn clean-energy ideas into successful companies employing hundreds of Americans. One of these companies is now deploying modular concentrating solar power stations in the Mojave Desert, using mass-produced panels and modern manufacturing techniques to create some of the cheapest solar power in the world. Others are working on more efficient solar cells for rooftops, and many other revolutionary technologies.This kind of technological innovation isn't limited to Southern California--renewable energy is booming in Texas and Massachusetts, South Dakota and Georgia. And with the first mass produced plug-in hybrid cars appearing this fall, clean energy will soon be fueling our vehicles as well.But our American-made high-tech boom is threatened by subsidies that keep fossil fuel prices artificially low, stifling competition and sustaining our dangerous dependence on foreign oil. Some of those subsidies are direct, like tax breaks for oil companies. The Administration's budget has proposed ending $45 billion worth of subsidies that tilt the playing field away from clean energy.Other subsidies are indirect, like limited liability for oil spills and air pollution. In the Los Angeles basin, endemic smog caused by fossil fuels is a hidden tax on every resident, costing millions of dollars in additional health care and lost work hours. Last year, the National Academy of Sciences estimated that health care and other costs created by gasoline consumption come to about 30 cents a gallon, without considering global warming. That cost is absorbed by all of us, in the form of hospital bills and asthma attacks. We must rebalance our energy subsidies so that clean energy can compete on an equal footing with oil, coal and natural gas.And we need to adapt quickly, because China is now the leader in clean-energy technology. In a few short years, the Chinese have developed a vibrant industrial base that produces more photovoltaic cells than any other nation. Meanwhile, China's demand continues to grow--it is the world leader in hydropower and second in wind power, stimulating a job-intensive domestic industry to meet the demand. To boost its green economy, China created a stimulus package worth hundreds of billions of dollars. And Chinese universities and research centers are quickly gaining expertise in developing the new green technologies that will power economic growth for upcoming decades.We can recapture our leadership role by supporting renewable energy companies here at home, realigning our energy incentives, and investing in the research and development that will create new technologies. This week, we considered the America COMPETES Act, which outlines a doubling of federal research over the next decade. Although this bill is opposed by those that favor the same energy sources now devastating the Gulf, I am confident we will pass this critical measure. And with this investment, we will ensure that new energy ideas are created here at home, by American students and American entrepreneurs.But we also must ensure that those ideas turn into American companies. We must provide green-tech business with the tools they need to grow, train and hire new workers. We must establish renewable energy standards, like the one in California that is stimulating investment up and down the state. We must strengthen our electrical grid, so that new sources of energy can be added without stressing the system. And we must update our electrical meters, so that homeowners can pay less if they shift some of their energy use to off-peak hours.Our new whale oil has lasted longer than the original, but it is easy to see now that it no longer makes sense, for our economy, for our national security, or for our environment. We face a challenge we can and will meet, but it is not one we can face if we put our heads in the sand and invest more money, lives and effort in the last century's energy source. Instead we must move forward to the new renewable energy future, that awaits us--the most industrious and inventive nation on Earth.
05.19.10	05.19.10 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils "2010 International Piracy Watch List" Washington, D.C. - At a press conference today the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), unveiled the “2010 International Piracy Watch List.” In an effort to combat international copyright piracy by calling attention to countries where piracy has reached alarming levels, the Caucus announced they will closely monitor the serious problems of copyright piracy in the following five countries: China, Russia, Canada, Spain, and Mexico. The advent of digital technology holds the promise of a golden age for movies, music, video games and other forms of entertainment. More new devices for watching, listening to, recording, sharing and saving music and movies have emerged in the last decade than in the previous 100 years. And these technologies are a key to American economic growth: indeed, the combined copyright industries – movies, home video and television programming, music, books, video games and software – generate more revenues than any other single manufacturing sector, including automobiles and auto parts, aircraft and agriculture.Disturbingly, however, an explosion in piracy and a diminution in copyright protection have accompanied these exciting new advances in entertainment technology. Organized crime has become heavily involved in foreign DVD and CD piracy. Criminals are using the same formidable distribution network and resources that were developed for drug trafficking and arms smuggling. The result, in these and other countries, is a virtual evisceration of the legitimate market for American entertainment. “International piracy of American intellectual property weakens a segment of our economy that long has supported innovation and great American jobs,” said Senator Whitehouse. “Congress must work on a bipartisan basis to protect the creative industries and the jobs they support. The United States has been on the losing end of the largest theft of intellectual property in history. This must be stopped, and soon.” America is the largest creator, producer, and exporter of copyrighted material. In 2009, industry estimates that global piracy costs U.S. firms over $25 billion in lost sales annually. “Our nation and our economy is what it is today, because of the ingenuity and ideas of our people – ideas that have been safeguarded through strong intellectual property rights protections. But, as the 2010 Watch List report makes clear, those very ideas are increasingly at risk from piracy and counterfeiting abroad,” said Senator Hatch. “What is stunning is that piracy isn’t just emanating from countries like Russia and China, but also from Canada and Mexico, our largest trading partners. Now is the time for policymakers to come together to tackle this global threat that cripples economic growth and stifles the innovation that has made our nation great.” The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus once again focuses on copyright piracy problems in Canada, China, Mexico, Russia and Spain. These countries make the Watch List because of the scope and depth of their piracy problems, which cost U.S. copyright industries and millions of Americans who work in these companies billions of dollars, and because piracy in these countries is largely the result of a lack of political will to confront the problem. These same countries were included on the 2009 Watch List. However, in the last year, no meaningful progress has been made to enforce intellectual property rights. “Intellectual property must be protected if our economy is to thrive -- and enforcing these protections does not stop at the water’s edge,” said Congressman Adam Schiff. “American entrepreneurs invest their time, money and sweat into creating the next must-have music, film and technology, and justly expect to be compensated by the market. To assure the continued creation and distribution of music, movies, software and books, from which we all benefit, we must ensure that our artists, creators and producers are paid for their work, and take much stronger action to ensure countries on the anti-piracy watch list are forced to take piracy seriously.”Congressman Goodlatte said, “It is tempting to think of crimes involving piracy, or intellectual property theft, as victimless, but this is simply untrue. Piracy denies individuals who have invested in the creation and production of these goods a return on their investment thus reducing the incentive to invest in innovative products and new creative works. The end result is the loss of billions of dollars in revenue for the U.S. each year and even greater losses to the U.S. economy in terms of reduced job growth and exports. Not only is the problem of piracy plaguing U.S. creators but it has become a global epidemic. We must encourage other countries to enact and enforce strong intellectual property laws in order to fully protect America’s inventors and authors, as well as their own.”Additionally, the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus highlighted the problem of websites, which are hosted overseas, that provide access to unauthorized copies of copyrighted works made by U.S. creators. China’s Baidu, Canada’s IsoHunt, Ukraine’s mp3fiesta, Germany’s RapidShare, Luxembourg’s RMX4U.com and Sweden’s The Pirate Bay were identified as priority sites. These sites are among the most heavily visited websites worldwide. The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which was originally formed in 2003, is made up of 70 members of Congress. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
05.18.10	05.18.10 Rep. Schiff on the Passage of Katie's Law CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES I thank the gentleman for yielding. DNA is perhaps the most powerful and most reliable tool at the disposal of criminal investigators today. As a former Federal prosecutor during the early days of the DNA revolution, I have seen firsthand the power of DNA to prove the guilt or innocence of a suspect.In 2008, I proposed an amendment to the Debbie Smith Act reauthorization that would have put in place a 10 percent bonus in Byrne/JAG grants for States to collect DNA profiles from anyone arrested for certain serious felonies. It passed the House with a strong bipartisan vote, but the clock ran out in the Senate. I could not be more pleased that Congressman Harry Teague has taken up the banner on this issue. I hope this year we can finally get it across the finish line.You have heard the tragic story of Katie Sepich, for whom this bill is named. Katie was a bright, vivacious 22-year-old from New Mexico who was murdered in 2003. Police were able to extract the DNA profile of her attacker from beneath Katie's fingernails, but they got no match to anyone in the offender database. When they finally did get a hit on the attacker's DNA, they discovered that the murderer had been arrested repeatedly for burglaries after 2003, but because he was never convicted, he was not required to submit a DNA sample for the database. Had New Mexico had arrestee testing at the time, Katie's killer would have been taken off the streets years earlier.There are 23 States, including my home State of California, that have now adopted DNA collection upon arrest or indictment for at least some violent felonies. By doing so, these States increase the power of the national database to solve crimes. The bonus in Federal law enforcement grants provided by Katie's Law will encourage additional States to adopt arrestee testing law. The legislation preserves civil liberties protections by requiring the FBI and the States to expunge the DNA of suspects who are acquitted.We know the power of this technology. We also know the cost of delay, the cost of an inadequate database, and it is simply this: that as we wait to run these samples or if we miss the opportunity to test the samples of those arrested for violent felonies, we know with a virtual statistical certainty that people we could take off the street, people that have committed rape or committed murder, will, in the interim between the time we do take the sample of the arrestee or between the time we do erase the backlog, will go on to murder others, to rape others. And what a tragedy it is when we have this tool not to utilize it to its full extent.I want to thank my colleagues for their leadership on this issue. Harry Teague has been a great champion. Congressman Reichert has been a great champion, and we are indebted to their leadership on this. This legislation is the product of years of work and debate in Congress. It will help law enforcement use DNA to solve crimes, and it will keep in place existing civil liberties protections. So hats off to Representatives Teague and Reichert for their leadership on this issue and to Chairman Conyers and to Chairman Scott for their support as well. I urge its adoption.
05.17.10	05.17.10 Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act Signed into Law Washington, DC — Today, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), and Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Pence (R-IN), co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, issued the following statements following the enactment of the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act:“Daniel Pearl’s tragic death shocked the world and, at the same time, opened our eyes to the abuse and harassment that many journalists face across the globe. With this bill, we pay tribute to Daniel’s life and his work by shining a spotlight on this sort of all-too-frequent repression,” said Dodd. “It’s an honor to be here today with so many members of Daniel’s family—including his wife, Mariane, his son Adam, and his parents, Judea and Ruth—all of whom have done so much to keep alive Daniel’s legacy and the importance of a free press.”“This legislation will help the United States work with other nations to better protect journalists working on the frontlines in the fight for greater accountability and transparency," Congressman Schiff said. "Freedom of expression cannot exist where journalists are not safe from persecution and attack. Our government must promote freedom of the press by putting on center stage those countries in which journalists are killed, imprisoned, kidnapped, threatened, or censored. Daniel Pearl’s life was an inspiration to all of us, and I am glad the Pearl family could be present and share in today’s ceremony.”“The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act is named in honor of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan in the months following the attacks of September 11, 2001,” Congressman Pence said. “In every corner of the globe, journalists like Daniel Pearl are being silenced by intimidation, imprisonment or murder as they seek to bring to light information in the public interest. The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act will result in a concerted effort to highlight and promote freedom of the press by including such reports in the State Department’s Annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices.”Rep. Schiff joined Senator Dodd, the Pearl family and President Obama at a bill signing ceremony, signing the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act into law. H.R. 3714, the House bill authored by Reps. Schiff and Pence that was signed into law by the President today, passed in the House of Representatives on December 16, 2009, and was agreed to in the Senate on April 29, 2010. The text of the legislation can be found here. The bill was championed by Senator Dodd, who introduced S. 1739, companion legislation to the bill in the Senate. The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act is named in honor of former Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan, just four months after the September 11th attacks. Provisions in the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act will spotlight governments that seek to silence media opposition.This legislation calls upon the Secretary of State to greatly expand its examination of the status of freedom of the press worldwide in the State Department’s Annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices. Specifically, the legislation requires the State Department to identify countries in which there were violations of press freedom; determine whether the government authorities of those countries participate in, facilitate, or condone the violations; and report the actions such governments have taken to preserve the safety and independence of the media and ensure the prosecution of individuals who attack or murder journalists.
05.14.10	05.14.10 Rep. Schiff and LA Members Ask AG Holder and FBI Director Mueller to Develop Immediate Solutions to Expeditiously Process Remaining Sexual Assault Evidence Kits Washington, DC – With Los Angeles struggling to eliminate a backlog in the processing of more than 7,000 rape kits – the evidence collected from the crime scene and victim’s body after a rape report – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and members of Congress from the Los Angeles area sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director Robert Mueller asking that they work with the City of Los Angeles to develop immediate solutions to expeditiously process remaining sexual assault evidence kits. In the City of Los Angeles alone, 1,700 kits were awaiting a technical review on March 1, and that number is only growing.“The thousands of sexual assault evidence kits currently awaiting technical review could be uploaded into the national database much more quickly in a reformed technical review process,” Rep. Schiff said. “We believe that Los Angeles can serve as a pilot to demonstrate the feasibility of alternatives, taking dangerous people off the street, speeding justice for victims of assault, saving scarce resources, and improving our use of DNA technologies."The City of Los Angeles has attacked its backlog by sending evidence kits to accredited private laboratories, which process the evidence, identify any possible suspect DNA profiles, and send it back to the LAPD’s crime lab. Unfortunately, FBI rules require a time-consuming, manual review by the LAPD lab before a kit can actually be uploaded into the national database (called CODIS) to be matched against possible suspects. Of the thousands of kits that have received technical reviews by the LAPD, none has identified a mistake that would impact the integrity of the DNA database or allow a rapist to go undetected. After years of resistance, the FBI has agreed to look at the technical review rules to make them less onerous on law enforcement. “We welcome this development, but for Los Angeles, the six months to a year that it will take to undertake this review is simply too long,” Rep. Schiff said. “It will result in millions of dollars in unnecessary spending and, most importantly, it will slow the process of identifying potential suspects in these assaults.” "Closing the rape kit backlog requires a sustained commitment," said Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. "Congressman Schiff's leadership has been invaluable in pushing to revise current rules to provide immediate financial relief for the City and bring swifter justice for rape victims." “Failure to upload results into CODIS in a timely manner denies the investigators access to valuable investigative information and justice for crime victims, allowing criminals to continue to roam and prey on society,” said Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck. “Although we’ve made substantial progress in eliminating the backlog, the current requirement for a law enforcement lab to verify the outsourced results is redundant, bureaucratic, and defeats the purpose of outsourcing. We hope Congressman Adam Schiff’s attention to this important issue will result in new procedures that will allow us utilize our resources more efficiently and identify potential suspects in Los Angeles.” Below is the full text of the letter sent to Attorney General Holder and FBI Director Mueller: May 11, 2010Dear Attorney General Holder/Director Mueller:We write as Members of Congress from the Los Angeles area with a commitment to law enforcement and the rights of sexual assault victims. As you know, Los Angeles has been struggling to eliminate a backlog of thousands of sexual assault kits that have waited years for processing. Through a joint federal and local effort, the end is finally in sight for the rape kit backlog, in large part because the City has dedicated substantial resources to outsourcing the extraction of suspect DNA profiles to accredited private laboratories. However, due to burdensome and unnecessary technical review requirements required by the Quality Assurance Standards for Forensic DNA Laboratories, there is a second backlog of cases developing. These are kits that have been returned to the public lab, but due to a lack of resources and manpower they wait months to be uploaded into CODIS. In the evidence that awaits review, there are doubtless profiles of offenders who will continue to walk the streets and assault additional victims while this evidence awaits entry to CODIS. In the City of Los Angeles alone there were 1,700 kits awaiting technical review on March 1, and the number is only growing.We appreciate that the FBI announced in March a review of the technical review rules with an eye towards revising them later this year. We eagerly await further details as to what the review will entail. However, in the meantime, the problem in Los Angeles is more pressing than the months or years this review could take. The LAPD has performed thousands of technical reviews on rape kits already, and they have not found a single error by a private lab that would impact the integrity of CODIS or allowed a suspect to escape scrutiny. The Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department has a similar experience.We are concerned that even the most aggressive timeline will result in months of delays in the closing of the rape kit backlog in Los Angeles and cost millions of scarce budget funds. For that reason, we ask that you work with the City of Los Angeles to develop immediate alternatives to 100 percent technical review. The thousands of sexual assault evidence kits currently awaiting technical review could serve as the proof of concept for a reformed technical review process. We believe that Los Angeles can serve as a pilot to demonstrate the feasibility of alternatives, thereby speeding justice for victims of assault, saving scarce resources, and improving our use of DNA technologies. We are eager to work with you to make this vision a reality, along with Mayor Villaraigosa and the leadership of Los Angeles.Your timely consideration of this matter is appreciated.Sincerely, Rep. Adam SchiffRep. Howard BermanRep. Henry WaxmanRep. Lucille Roybal-AllardRep. Linda SanchezRep. Laura RichardsonRep. Diane WatsonRep. Dana RohrabacherRep. Judy ChuRep. Jane Harman
05.11.10	05.11.10 Rep. Schiff Testifies at House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) testified at a House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security that focused on two pieces of pending legislation introduced by the Congressman: HR 4055, the Honest Opportunity Probation with Enforcement (HOPE) Initiative Act of 2009, which would reduce drug use, crime and the costs of incarceration; and HR 4080, the Criminal Justice Reinvestment Act of 2009, which would establish a criminal justice reinvestment grant program to help states and local jurisdictions reduce spending on corrections, control growth in the prison and jail populations, and increase public safety. Below is Rep. Schiff’s full testimony as prepared for delivery:“Mr. Chairman, I’d like to thank you for calling this hearing today and for inviting me to testify before the Subcommittee. Under your leadership, this Subcommittee has closely examined criminal justice policy issues by focusing on the promotion of proven strategies demonstrated through the use of evidence-based research. Today’s hearing will focus on two pieces of legislation I have introduced that are based on innovative and highly promising approaches to addressing criminal justice issues. “A recent PEW study shows that 1 in 31 adults is currently under correctional control, up from 1 in 77 in 1982. Over the past two decades, corrections has been the second fastest growing area of state expenditures, second only to Medicaid. State corrections costs now top $50 billion, consuming one in every 15 discretionary dollars, a significant increase from the $10.6 billion spent some 20 years ago. “These numbers are unsustainable, and it is clear that our approach must drastically change. Determining how to best address our criminal and juvenile justice systems is a task that policymakers have grappled with for years. New and innovative approaches often lose out to established and well-known initiatives, even where outcomes are not sufficiently positive, as Congress is generally wary of experimentation. “As policymakers we must think outside the box more often and explore new and innovative ideas to tackle criminal justice issues. This is especially important in areas that we have attempted to address for some time, but with little success. “Budget cuts and prison overcrowding are creating a crisis situation in many states. In my home state of California, prisons house over 171,000 inmates, nearly twice their operating capacity, and we spend almost 10% of total general fund expenditures on corrections. Because of unacceptable overcrowding, we are now faced with a judicial order to release about 25% of our prison population. “Data-driven, “justice reinvestment” strategies can assist policymakers in California to reduce spending on corrections, while increasing public safety. Promising results have been seen in Texas, Kansas, and other jurisdictions after such strategies have been implemented, and you will hear about how these successes were accomplished in the second panel. “Based on this successful work, I have introduced the bipartisan Criminal Justice Reinvestment Act of 2009 with my colleague Rep. Dan Lungren, and Senators Sheldon Whitehouse and John Cornyn have introduced identical legislation which was recently reported out of the Senate Judiciary Committee with bipartisan support. “The legislation is designed to assist state and local governments in implementing justice reinvestment strategies. No two states are the same and the drivers of increased corrections costs and prison populations are unique in each state. The legislation therefore devotes grant funding for intensive analysis of criminal justice data, policies, and the cost-effectiveness of current spending on corrections, in order to develop data-driven policy options that can address this. The bill then provides resources for the implementation of solutions – for example, providing training and technical assistance or support for the delivery of risk-reduction programs – and for reinvesting averted prison costs to bolster such initiatives. “Currently there are at least 14 states on a waiting list, seeking such technical assistance, and eight other states are seeking to expand such work. Congress has the opportunity to step in and answer this call for assistance. “Another area where we must look for new ideas and approaches is in our drug policy. The conservative American Enterprise Institute concluded in a study that “tough enforcement, the centerpiece of American drug policy in terms of rhetoric, budget, and substance, has little to show by way of success.” “A substantial amount of crime, and a substantial share of prison occupancy, is directly tied to illicit drug consumption. In addition, we know that a relatively small group of chronic drug users consumes the vast majority of illicit drugs in the U.S., and approximately three-quarters of this group pass through the criminal justice system at some point. So reducing drug consumption in the U.S. requires effectively addressing the drug habits of supervised offenders. “Furthermore, the failure of individuals serving terms of probation to successfully complete these terms is a major contributor to prison admission. For example, in 2007, more than 250,000 individuals on probation were admitted to prison. Effectively addressing drug use by these individuals will reduce national drug consumption, crime rates, and taxpayer burdens. “In 2004, Judge Steven Alm of Hawaii launched a pilot program to reduce probation violations by offenders at high risk of recidivism. This intensified supervision program – called Hawaii’s Opportunity Probation with Enforcement, or “HOPE” – uses graduated sanctions, beginning with the threat of short jail stays, as an incentive for compliance. Defendants are clearly warned that if they violate the rules, they go to jail. Participants receive swift and immediate sanctions for each violation, such as testing dirty for drugs or missing appointments with a probation officer. “The results of a one-year, randomized controlled trial indicate that Hawaii HOPE probationers were:· 55 % less likely to be arrested for a new crime· 72 % less likely to use drugs· 61 % less likely to skip appointments with their supervisory officer; and· 53 % less likely to have their probation revoked“An article in the Journal of American Medical Association found that if the HOPE initiative was replicated effectively in multiple jurisdictions, the program might have broader benefits beyond assisting probationer participants at risk for heavy drug use, such as helping to shrink the market for illegal drugs and the profits of drug trafficking organizations. “I have introduced bipartisan legislation, with my colleague Rep. Ted Poe of Texas, that would promote and expand the use of this model in a number of jurisdictions across the country. The Honest Opportunity Probation with Enforcement, or “HOPE”, Initiative Act of 2009 is designed to promote the establishment of probation demonstration programs that reduce drug use, crime, and recidivism by requiring swift, predictable, and graduated sanctions for noncompliance with the conditions of probation. Stringent requirements will ensure that the pilots are designed and evaluated in an appropriate manner, and our legislation would require a determination of the amount of cost savings resulting from the program and an accounting of reinvestment of those savings for expansion of the program. “Earlier today, President Obama transmitted to Congress the “2010 National Drug Control Strategy.” In this blueprint for reducing illicit drug use and its harmful consequences in America, support is specifically outlined for Project HOPE and drug testing with certain and swift sanctions in probation and parole systems. The Strategy notes that Federal agencies will look for opportunities to expand such programs throughout the country in collaboration with State, local, and tribal agencies. “In closing, Mr. Chairman, I would like to commend you again for your leadership in this area and for focusing the Subcommittee’s attention on these two innovative and promising approaches. I urge the Subcommittee to act on these proposals so that we can address these issues this Congress.”
05.11.10	05.11.10 Honoring the 75th Anniversary of Griffith Observatory CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMadam Speaker, I rise today to honor the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Griffith Observatory in Los Angeles, California.In 1896, Griffith J. Griffith donated 3,015 acres to the City of Los Angeles for Griffith Park and several years later in December of 1912, he offered funding for a public observatory to the Los Angeles City Council. When Mr. Griffith died in 1919, he left funds for construction of the Observatory and the Greek Theatre in his will. The groundbreaking for the new Observatory building occurred in June of 1920, and in 1934, the Astronomers Monument was dedicated.The formal dedication of Griffith Observatory was on May 14, 1935, and it opened to the public the next day. Soon afterward, the Observatory began its school field trip program, which ran continuously until 2001 and brought millions of students to the Observatory.The Observatory has played a crucial role in our nation's history--whether during the 1940s, when military pilots trained in the planetarium theater to learn to navigate by the stars and the 121st Coast Artillery members were garrisoned at the Observatory, or in the hundreds of motion pictures filmed at the Observatory, including The Phantom Empire, Rebel Without a Cause, and Jurassic Park.The 75 years have brought many exciting additions and changes at the Observatory. 1958 saw the retirement of the first Observatory Director, Dr. Dinsmore Alter, after 23 years. In the 1960s, the original Zeiss Mark II planetarium projector was replaced with a Zeiss Mark IV projector, Apollo astronauts were trained to navigate by the stars in the planetarium theater, and Dr. Clarence Cleminshaw retired after 34 years of service as the Assistant Director (1935-1958) and Director (1958-1969). In November of 1973, Laserium premiered--a program that continued until January 2002. After Dr. William Kaufman's resignation as Director (1970-1974), Dr. E.C. Krupp became the fourth Director of the Observatory, a position he currently holds after over 36 years, making him the longest-serving Director. The 1970s also saw Griffith Observatory designated as Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument No. 168 and the official incorporation of the Friends Of The Observatory by Dr. Krupp and Debra and Harold Griffith.In 1985, the fiftieth anniversary was celebrated on May 14, Halley's Comet brought in unprecedented crowds, and on January 1, 1989, the Observatory was featured on a Rose Parade float in the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Parade. In the 1990s, a master plan for the Observatory's future was approved, the Astronomers Monument restoration was completed, and huge crowds saw live telescopic viewing of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 crashing into Jupiter. In 2002, the Observatory closed to the public after 67 years of service for renovation and expansion and on October 30, the groundbreaking for the project occurred. After a $93 million makeover, the Observatory building and grounds reopened to the public on November 2, 2006. Since that time, the Observatory has continued serving the public with new educational school programs and events.I consider it a great privilege to represent Griffith Observatory and I ask all Members to join me in congratulating this iconic, cultural landmark upon its seventy-fifth anniversary.
04.30.10	04.30.10 Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act to be Sent to the President Washington, DC — Yesterday, the Senate unanimously passed the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act, championed by Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), and Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Pence (R-IN), co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press. Senator Dodd introduced S. 1739 in the Senate as a companion to H.R. 3714, the House bill authored by Reps. Schiff and Pence that will now go to the President to be signed into law. This legislation expands the examination of press freedom worldwide in the State Department’s annual human rights report. “In many parts of the world, the freedom of the press is the last—or even the only—safeguard against the complete erosion of all other human rights,” Senator Dodd said. “The horrific murder of Daniel Pearl that shocked the world also opened our eyes to the abuse and harassment that many journalists face, too often at the hands of government authorities. With this bill, we pay tribute to Daniel’s life and his work by shedding a bright light on this repression, and hope to prevent this sort of tragedy from ever happening again.”“Daniel Pearl’s life was an inspiration to all of us,” Congressman Schiff said. “We hope this legislation will help the United States work with other nations to better protect his colleagues serving on the frontlines in the fight for greater accountability and transparency. Freedom of expression cannot exist where journalists are not safe from persecution and attack. Our government must promote freedom of the press by putting on center stage those countries in which journalists are killed, imprisoned, kidnapped, threatened, or censored.”The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act is named in honor of former Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan, just four months after the September 11th attacks. Provisions in the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act will spotlight governments that seek to silence media opposition. Specifically, the measure calls upon the Secretary of State to greatly expand its examination of the status of freedom of the press worldwide in the State Department’s Annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices. The legislation requires the State Department to identify countries in which there were violations of press freedom; determine whether the government authorities of those countries participate in, facilitate, or condone the violations; and report the actions such governments have taken to preserve the safety and independence of the media and ensure the prosecution of individuals who attack or murder journalists.
04.30.10	04.30.10 Sec. Locke and Rep. Schiff Urge Asian American and Pacific Islander Communities To Participate in the 2010 Census Washington, DC – Census forms were mailed to every household across the nation in March, and tomorrow, Census Bureau workers will begin going door-to-door, visiting households that did not complete and mail in their Census forms. As Census Bureau workers begin knocking on doors, Commerce Secretary Gary Locke and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) encourage members of Asian American and Pacific Islander communities to open their doors and feel comfortable participating in the 2010 Census.“Many Asians and Pacific Islanders are reluctant to participate in this important count because of fear, distrust, and language and cultural barriers,” Rep. Schiff said. “These barriers resulted in the Asian Pacific American community being historically undercounted. However, full participation in the 2010 Census and a representative count are critically important to match our service needs, and preserve the health and wellbeing of our communities.”The first step in ensuring delivery of resources is to identify communities with unique needs. For example, the APA community, when compared to the general population, is disproportionately affected by Hepatitis B. Without accurate Census data, it may be difficult to allocate the proper resources to combat the disease. According to the 2000 Census, Asian Pacific Americans (APA) make up approximately 25 percent of California’s 29th Congressional District, represented by Congressman Schiff.“I urge members of the Asian and Pacific Islander community in Southern California to open your doors to Census Bureau employees and participate in the Census to ensure a complete count,” said Locke, Commerce’s first Chinese-American secretary. “Completing your Census form will empower your community and bring important benefits, services and much-needed resources.”Conducted once every 10 years and mandated by the U.S. Constitution, Census counts help determine how more than $400 billion a year in federal funding will be allocated to communities across the nation for infrastructure and government services, including public schools, housing, health care, job training, and economic development. Each individual who goes uncounted will cost our local community more than $14,000 over 10 years in funding for these important public services.Census figures are also used to shape federal, state, and local voting districts, which determine whether Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are fairly represented in Congress, state legislatures and local councils and boards. Additionally, Census data are used to enforce the federal Voting Rights Act, protecting Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders from discrimination.“It is important to remember that Census answers are strictly confidential and protected by the strongest national privacy laws,” Locke said. “No other government agency – not immigration officials, law enforcement, housing authorities, or the courts – will have access to individual census answers. Similarly, census workers collecting your information are required to swear an oath to keep the collected information confidential. Violators who do not keep that confidentiality can be imprisoned and fined.”
04.29.10	04.29.10 Schiff Bill to Combat Arson Passes Senate Committee Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) and Congressman Adam Schiff (CA-29) praised the Senate Committee passage of a version of their legislation (S. 1684) aimed to prevent arson across the country. The Managing Arson Through Criminal History (MATCH) Act, will create a comprehensive, nation-wide database for law enforcement to track convicted arsonists. The MATCH Act, introduced by Bono Mack and Schiff last year, already passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support. The legislation now continues through the legislative process in the Senate.“This legislation will provide our law enforcement and fire officials with valuable information that will help them prevent and prosecute criminal arsonists,” Bono Mack said. “As we know all too well in California, arson has the power to destroy entire communities and take innocent lives. I am proud that this bill that started as a local idea has gained such overwhelming support in Congress, and I am hopeful that the Senate will continue to move forward with this bill that will help our firefighters who put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe.”“Arson has caused some of the most destructive fires in California, yet less than 20 percent of arsonists are held accountable for their crime,” Schiff said. “The Station Fire in August exemplifies the kind of damage and devastation that arson can cause to both life and property. The MATCH Act, much like a Megan’s Law-type registry, will provide valuable tools for law enforcement officials to catch arsonists, prevent additional fires, and keep our communities safe. I commend the Senate Judiciary Committee for passing this important legislation today, and I look forward to further action on this bill in the Senate.”In 2006, five firefighters lost their lives battling the Esperanza Fire in Southern California, which was caused by arson. This fire affected countless lives and property and destroyed hundreds of square miles of National Forest. In August last year, the Station Fire, which investigators believe to be caused by arson, burned more than 160,000 acres in Los Angeles County and the Angeles National Forest, taking the lives of two brave firefighters. “A comprehensive database like this will provide for more coordinated and efficient enforcement of arson laws,” said Burbank Fire Chief Ray Krakowski. “Our fire department is very much in support of this kind of legislation, and we are thankful to Congressman Schiff for his work on this important issue.” “Today's action by the Senate Judiciary Committee brings us one step closer to establishing a national system to track convicted arsonists and provides our fire investigators with an invaluable tool,” said Cathedral City Fire Chief Bill Soqui. “Any advantage we can get to help track down individuals who cause fire and endanger life and property, we want to have that advantage,” said Glendale Fire Chief Harold Scoggins. “Congressman Schiff’s MATCH Act would be incredibly beneficial in reducing the amount of life and property that are lost each year through arson fires.”“Arsonists endanger the public and Firefighters; the properties they burn not only effect the property owners and occupants, it also places Firefighters in harm’s way as they battle a senseless fire that was intentionally started,” said Pasadena Fire Chief Dennis J. Downs. “The Fire Service has long awaited legislation that would enable Fire Departments to share information about and track convicted arsonists. H.R. 1727, introduced by Representatives Schiff and Bono Mack, finally fulfills that need. I am proud to say that Congressman Schiff represents more than the people in his district; in introducing H.R. 1727 he also represents the men and women of the Fire Service.”
04.28.10	04.28.10 Rep. Schiff Votes for Measure to Eliminate Billions in Wasteful Government Spending Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) voted to save taxpayers up to $98 billion by curbing waste, fraud and abuse in government spending due to poor oversight on the part of federal agencies. The Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act, co-sponsored by Rep. Schiff, will help identify, reduce and eliminate improper payments, as well as recover lost funds that federal agencies have improperly disbursed. Specifically, the bill contains provisions to increase transparency by lowering the improper payment threshold for agencies, requiring agencies to develop action plans to avoid future waste, recovering overpayments, and holding agencies accountable. “We can't allow a single taxpayer dollar to be wasted on overpayments or careless accounting mistakes,” Rep. Schiff said. “This legislation is one of several bills aimed at rooting out waste and increasing efficiency by auditing government agencies, and assessing their progress in reaching their objectives.” According to the Office of Management and Budget, federal agencies made an estimated $98 billion in improper payments in FY2009. These improper payments may occur as a result of fraud or from poor financial management systems that do not detect or prevent mistakes before federal dollars are misspent.
04.23.10	04.23.10 2009 Press Releases
04.23.10	04.23.10 2008 Press Releases
04.23.10	04.23.10 2009
04.23.10	04.23.10 2008
04.22.10	04.22.10 Rep. Schiff Urges President Obama to Properly Acknowledge the Armenian Genocide Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to President Obama urging him to properly characterize the murder of 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children as “genocide” in his statement marking the April 24 anniversary of the start of the genocide. On Saturday, it will have been 95 years since the systematic and deliberate annihilation campaign was launched by the government of the Ottoman Empire against its Armenian population. While the Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than 20 nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament, it has not been formally recognized by the U.S. Congress in decades. Congressman Schiff is the primary sponsor of H. Res. 252, the Affirmation of the U.S. Record on the Armenian Genocide, which would recognize and commemorate the genocide.“Wholesale massacres, forced marches through blistering deserts, rapes, and looting were visited upon the Armenians of eastern Anatolia,” Rep. Schiff said in the letter. “By the time that the killings ended in 1923, one and a half million Armenians were dead and the world’s oldest Christian nation had been shattered – with its survivors scattered around the world.” “Mr. President, you have always been a leader on the important issue of human rights,” Rep. Schiff said. “I urge you to stand with the ever-dwindling number of survivors, as well as the descendants of others, who survived the Armenian Genocide and continue to suffer the ‘double killing’ of denial, by referring to it as a genocide.”Below is the full text of the letter sent to President Obama:The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, DCDear Mr. President:As the primary sponsor of H. Res. 252, the Armenian Genocide resolution, I urge you to properly characterize the murder of 1.5 million men, women and children as “genocide” in your statement marking the April 24 anniversary of the start of the genocide.Ninety-five years ago this month, in the spring of 1915, the government of the Ottoman Empire launched a campaign against its Armenian population. Wholesale massacres, forced marches through blistering deserts, rapes, and looting were visited upon the Armenians of eastern Anatolia. By the time that the killings ended in 1923, one and a half million Armenians were dead and the world’s oldest Christian nation had been shattered – with its survivors scattered around the world. As a Senator, and during the 2008 presidential campaign, you repeatedly spoke of the massacres of Armenians at the hands of the Ottoman government as genocide. This was in line with the overwhelming majority of historians, including some notable Turkish historians, and the genocide has also been recognized by many local and state governments here in the United States and by many governments around the world.Last April you did not use the term “genocide” to describe the events of 1915-23. At the time, some argued that the possible reconciliation between Armenia and Turkey was a reason to hold off on recognition. This misapprehended the nature of reconciliation, which can never find a sound basis in the denial of genocide, or silence when confronted by denial. Now, despite the signing of the Protocols, the Turkish government has given every indication that it will not ratify or implement the agreement and has sought to make resolution of the Nagorno-Karabakh issue a precondition for any action by the Turkish parliament. I have repeatedly warned that Turkey would attempt to use the protocols process as a means to prevent the Administration from using the word “genocide,” and to try to forestall consideration of a genocide resolution by the Congress. That must not be allowed to come to pass. Linking the process of the protocols to the Armenian Genocide resolution actually encourages Turkey to not ratify them, since the Turks know that prolonging the process serves to provide opponents of the resolution with a continuing excuse to delay recognition of the Armenian Genocide.Mr. President, you have always been a leader on the important issue of human rights. I urge you to stand with the ever-dwindling number of survivors, as well as the descendants of others, who survived the Armenian Genocide and continue to suffer the “double killing” of denial, by referring to it as a genocide. Sincerely, Adam B. SchiffMember of Congress
04.22.10	04.22.10 The Fight Against Malaria CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMadam Speaker, I rise today to remind my colleagues that April 25th is World Malaria Day. On this day, global health advocates around the world will be raising awareness about malaria, and the fight against this deadly disease.Malaria is an acute and often fatal disease transmitted to humans by mosquitoes. The World Health Organization estimates that annually, there are approximately 250 million cases of malaria and nearly 1 million deaths, primarily among children in Africa under five.Malaria is highly preventable and treatable with existing tools, including insecticide-treated bed nets, indoor residual spraying of insecticides, and anti-malaria drugs. Through the President's Malaria Initiative, contributions to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria, and other investments, the United States has played a prominent role in the global effort to fight this deadly disease.This effort is already showing impressive results, but ensuring that available anti-malaria tools reach all of the people who need them will require greater dedication of resources from the U.S. and our partners. Furthermore, drug and insecticide resistance mean that today's tools are likely to lose their efficacy over time. Therefore, it is critical to invest in research on new tools, including drugs, insecticides, diagnostics, and, eventually, a malaria vaccine.The past several years have seen remarkable gains against malaria. Securing and expanding these gains will require continued U.S. leadership and investment.
04.21.10	04.21.10 Rep. Schiff Votes to Strengthen Veterans' Health Services Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) voted to ensure that veterans and their families receive the care and support they need and deserve after putting themselves in harm’s way for our safety. The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act will reform and improve veterans’ health services by supporting wounded veterans, their families and caregivers, expanding care for female veterans, improving mental health services, and increasing access to health care for veterans in rural areas. “Day in and day out our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and coast guardsmen put their lives on the line to protect our own,” Rep. Schiff said in a statement on the House floor today. “Our men and women in uniform are the bravest among us, making unparalleled sacrifices to protect our precious liberties and freedoms. We must do everything in our power to support them.” To address the unique needs of the growing number of returning women soldiers, this bill will improve health services for almost 2 million female veterans. With this legislation, the VA will be able to provide care for female veterans’ newborns for the first time in history. It will also improve access to care for veterans in rural areas, ensure that the VA can better treat veterans suffering from mental health issues, and provide the VA with resources to learn more about the tragically high suicide rate among veterans. This legislation will also support family members and caregivers who look after our injured veterans to bring them the relief they deserve. “Today, we voted to provide our veterans and their families with the valuable benefits they need, have earned, and deserve,” Rep. Schiff said on the House floor. “This legislation is an important component of our ongoing effort to give back to our Veterans and their families.” The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act passed today builds on a number of recent accomplishments for veterans and troops, including the new G.I. Bill, which restores the promise of a full four-year education to our service men and women to make them part of our economic recovery; historic investments in veterans’ health care and providing that funding one year in advance to prevent political or legislative delays; the Recovery Act, which provides a tax credit to businesses for hiring out-of-work veterans, funds for improvements to veterans' hospitals, and provided disabled veterans with a payment of $250; and improving care for those with PTSD.The bill passed by the House today is supported by a broad coalition of veterans groups including the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS, Paralyzed Veterans of America, the Wounded Warriors Project and the National Military Family Association.
04.21.10	04.21.10 Congressman Schiff's Web Site Wins Gold Mouse Award Washington, D.C. — Today, the Web site of Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) was recognized by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) for having one of the best Web sites in Congress. CMF analyzed all 620 Congressional Web sites, including those of all Senate and House Members, committees (both majority and minority Web sites), and official leadership Web sites. Schiff’s site, http://schiff.dchou01.house.gov, was one of only 135 Web sites commended by CMF in its 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project. "I am proud that my Web site was recognized by the Congressional Management Foundation as a Gold Mouse Award winner,” Rep. Schiff said. “CMF performs valuable work evaluating the constituent services of Members of Congress. I continually strive to improve and enhance communications with my constituents, and this CMF report provides useful feedback on how to meet that goal using my Congressional Web site.”Rep. Schiff is always working to make his Web site as user-friendly as possible and an effective tool for communicating with his constituents. He routinely evaluates his Web site and updates it with the latest technology aimed at keeping his constituents informed and up-to-date on his work in Congress on their behalf. The Web site features a blog updated by Rep. Schiff, which serves as an informal way for him to communicate with constituents on issues ranging from the news of the day to community events to Congressional oversight hearings. Constituents can also sign up for Rep. Schiff’s weekly e-newsletter, “The Washington Update,” from his Web site. The e-newsletter includes a Congressional update, helpful links to his Web site, and access to his email. The most popular feature of the e-newsletter is a point-and-click survey about one of the week's top issues. Survey results are provided the following week, showing what constituents and their neighbors thought of these pivotal questions. The Congressman’s Web site also includes a feature entitled the “Capitol Report,” a half-hour public affairs show taped on Capitol Hill. Each month on the Capitol Report, important Washington-based officials join Rep. Schiff to talk about issues important to Southern Californians.The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Awards are part of CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union, which seeks to improve the quality of communication between Members and their constituents. For this project, CMF partnered with researchers from the Harvard Kennedy School, Northeastern University, University of California–Riverside, and the Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. “One of the key reasons for the awards is to highlight best practices so offices can improve their sites by learning from those already excelling in online communications,” said Beverly Bell, CMF’s Executive Director. “Web sites like Schiff’s serve as a prime example that we hope other Congressional offices will follow.” “Congressman Adam Schiff’s Web site shows that he understands how to meet the needs of his District online,” said Bell. “The Congressional Management Foundation congratulates Congressman Schiff for having a Web site that is among the best-of-the-best on Capitol Hill, and we are pleased to present Congressman Schiff with the 111th Congress Gold Mouse Award.”“The 111th Congress report shows that Web sites continue to be a critical channel through which Members and Congressional committees can communicate with, and hear from, citizens. The Internet is a vital tool for elected officials and the public to use in the give-and-take of ideas and opinions that has characterized the American form of government since its founding,” Bell said.Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five core principles that CMF identified through extensive research as critical for effectiveness: know your audience, provide timely and targeted content that meets their needs, make the site easy to use, foster interaction both on and offline, and add value through innovation.Using these core principles, an evaluation framework was developed by CMF and their research partners, which would be fair and objective while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor's experience on a Web site. The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project report, a full listing winners, and other comparative data is available on CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union Web site at www.pmpu.org.
04.21.10	04.21.10 On Equal Pay Day, Rep. Schiff Says More Needs to be Done to Close the Wage Gap between Women and Men Washington, DC – Yesterday, as the nation observed Equal Pay Day, which marks how many additional days into the year a woman must work, on average, to earn as much as a man earned during the previous year, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) said more needs to be done to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men.“Forty-seven years have passed since President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act into law in 1963,” Rep. Schiff said. “Yet in many cases, the wage gap persists between women and men, as there is still not equal pay for equal work in our country. In this great nation, it should not be that way.”When the Equal Pay Act was signed into law in 1963, women who worked full-time year-round made an average of 59 cents for every dollar earned by men. In 2008, women earned 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. While progress has been made, the wage gap has only been narrowed by less than half a cent per year.To achieve equal pay for women, Rep. Schiff voted in favor of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the first major bill signed into law by President Obama. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act restores the right of women and other workers to challenge unfair pay in court. Specifically, it rectifies the May 2007, Ledbetter v. Goodyear Supreme Court decision that overturned precedent and made it much more difficult for workers to pursue pay discrimination claims. The bill protects women and other workers by restoring the longstanding interpretation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and other discrimination statutes.“The passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Act was a major victory for women in America,” Rep. Schiff said. “To truly achieve pay equity, the Senate should pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, which the House passed in January 2009, and send it to the President to become law.”The Paycheck Fairness Act would give teeth to the Equal Pay Act of 1963. It would close numerous loopholes in the Equal Pay Act and stiffen penalties for those who discriminate based on gender. Additionally, it would create initiatives to provide negotiation skills training programs for girls and women.“Gender-based pay discrimination remains a serious issue,” Rep. Schiff said. “On this Equal Pay Day 2010, let us all recognize the need to strengthen our families and ensure fairness in the workplace. Together, we can achieve an America where women receive equal pay for equal work.”
04.21.10	04.21.10 Supporting Care for Disabled Veterans CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act. Day in and day out our soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and the Coast Guard put their lives on the line to protect our own.Our men and women in uniform are the bravest among us, making unparalleled sacrifices to protect our precious liberties and freedoms, and we must do everything in our power to support them. This legislation is an important component of our ongoing effort to give back to our veterans and their families.It will provide long overdue support to those who care for the disabled, ill and injured veterans. It will enhance health services for 1.8 million women veterans, including care for newborns for the first time in history. It will expand mental health services for veterans and health care access for veterans in rural areas. It will end co-pays for veterans who are catastrophically disabled.Today we have an opportunity to provide for our veterans and families the valuable benefits they need, have earned and deserve. On behalf of our brave men and women in uniform, as well as their friends and family, I join my colleagues in strong support of the bill.
04.15.10	04.15.10 Rep. Adam Schiff Receives Perfect Score on Voting Record for Legislation Affecting Women and Girls p align="center"> Thursday, April 15, 2010Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Rep. Adam Schiff Receives Perfect Score on Voting Record for Legislation Affecting Women and GirlsWashington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) received a 100 percent score from the American Association of University Women (AAUW) for critical votes he cast in the 111th Congress on issues affecting women and girls. The AAUW is a charitable membership organization, with a nationwide network of nearly 100,000 members, including more than 20,000 in California.“The AAUW and its members do an exceptional job breaking through educational and economic barriers that have impeded the advancement of women for decades,” Rep. Schiff said. “I thank them for the exceptional work that they do to keep the public and public officials well informed, and for recognizing my efforts on behalf of families in the 29th Congressional district.”Scored legislation was selected on the basis of the AAUW Public Policy Program priorities, including economic security, work-life balance, education, and civil rights. Specifically, the AAUW Congressional Voting Record scored Members of Congress on their votes on: pay equity; paid sick days; parental leave; hate crimes prevention; Title IX accountability in high schools; and college affordability."On behalf of the more than 100,000 bipartisan members and donors of the American Association of University Women (AAUW), I want to thank Congressman Schiff for his 100 percent rating in the AAUW Action Fund Congressional Voting Record for the 111th Congress, First Session," said Lisa Maatz, AAUW's Director of Public Policy and Government Relations. "We appreciate his support for AAUW’s priority issues, including his key votes to improve women's economic security and to make higher education more affordable, as well as his co-sponsorship of legislation to enhance work-life balance for employees.”According to the AAUW, 2009 successes include: H.R. 626, the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act; H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act; and H.R. 2460, the Healthy Families Act, which would provide employees with seven paid sick days per year.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
04.12.10	04.12.10 Alhambra High School Student Wins 2010 Congressional Arts Competition Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that Hetty Diep, a 12th grade student at Alhambra High School, won the 2010 29th Congressional District Arts Competition. Hetty’s piece “Shadows,” will be included in the nationwide Congressional Arts Competition: An Artistic Discovery in Washington, D.C. Her artwork will hang in the U.S. Capitol for one year, along with that of other winners from across the nation. Jonathan Shin, an 11th grade student at Flintridge Preparatory School in La Cañada, and Wendolyn Rebollar, a 12th grade student at Pasadena High School, were named the second and third place winners, respectively. “The quality of artwork submitted in the arts competition each year is extremely impressive, and this year was no exception,” Schiff said. “All the students deserve recognition for their hard work and extraordinary talent. I congratulate Hetty, Jonathan and Wendolyn on being named the winners and look forward to enjoying their artwork in the Capitol and in my offices throughout the coming year.” Hetty’s artwork was awarded first prize by a panel of local artists at the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens yesterday afternoon before a crowd of more than 300 people.Second place was awarded to Jonathan Shin for his work titled “Change.” Jonathan’s artwork will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, D.C. office for one year. Third place was awarded to Wendolyn Rebollar for her work titled “Reflecting Pool.” Wendolyn’s piece will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Pasadena office for one year. This year, there were 60 entries representing 25 high schools in the 29th Congressional District. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Recognition from Congressman SchiffThe panel of local artists included: Peter Adams, who is president of the California Art Club and nationally recognized for his enigmatic still life, figure and landscape paintings; Guy Fish, the Art Education Specialist at the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens; Lyudmila Garayan, founder and Art Director of the Fine Arts Studios and the Royal Gallery, known collectively as the Xpress Art Center, located in Glendale; Joan Marshall, the Executive Director of Pacific Asia Museum; and Kellye Nakahara Wallett, a watercolor artist also known for her role as “Nurse Kellye” in the TV series “M*A*S*H.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, more than 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nation-wide competition.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Carole Rodenbucher Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Carole Rodenbucher for her commitment and service to Temple City by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Few people take the chance to give back to their community to the extent that Carole has,” said Schiff. “Carole has helped develop our next generation of bright and giving Americans, and we are fortunate to have her leadership in our community.”In 1985, when her son Ryan was at Young People’s Village Preschool, Carole started volunteering by attending all off-site outings and working on the first ever Camellia Parade float entry. Since 1988, Carole has served as the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) president at Emperor Elementary School and at Temple City High School (TCHS). She also held several PTA executive board positions and chairmanships. She served on the Emperor School Site Council for two terms as chairman and secretary. Carole volunteered as Den Leader for Cub Scout Pack 169; Webelos Leader; Den Leader Coach; and Tiger Cub coach, secretary, treasurer, and committee chairman for seven years. She was also on the Lucky Baldwin Round Table Staff and Scout Expo, Pow Wow, Cub Scout, and Webelos Day Camps both at Trask and Cherry Valley. She also taught “Cooking with Carole” for three years at Camp Trask. She also served as the assistant to the Webelos Day Camp Director at Camp Trask for five years. In 1999, Carole was a chaperone for the TCHS trip to Germany, and in 2003, 2004, and 2005, Carole and her husband, Bob, were chaperones on the TCHS Washington, D.C. trips. In 2005, Carole joined Friends of Foster Children in San Gabriel Valley. Carole’s family has coordinated the Camellia Festival grandstand seating for the last twelve years. Carole is the General Chairman for 2010 and was Assistant General Chairman in 2009. She was also in charge of the TCHS Grad Night Ram Discount Card in 2000 and 2004, helped on the game booths for Grad Night 2004, and continues to volunteer at Grad Night celebrations.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who – through their work or volunteerism – have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Shirley Hwong Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 30, 2010Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Shirley Hwong Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Shirley Hwong for her commitment and service to Monterey Park by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Shirley has made a tremendous difference in improving education for our kids,” said Schiff. “Her dedication to our schools and the countless hours she has spent raising money for local charities and non-profit organizations make her well deserving of being named a Woman of the Year.”Shirley has lived in Monterey Park with her husband Leo for over thirty-five years. Shirley served on Monterey Highlands School Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) for more than ten years. She held the roles of PTA president and treasurer and did significant fundraising to help teachers and students. She was also involved in the Mark Keppel Alliance at Mark Keppel High School for four years and successfully fundraised for the Mark Keppel Band. Shirley has proven to be invaluable in her ability to raise money for charitable causes. In 2005, she was a chair person of “City with a Heart" fundraising for Hurricane Katrina relief. They raised more than $55,000 to help the victims in New Orleans. She has also been quite active in raising money for the Monterey Park Bruggemeyer Library.She was on the Monterey Park Community Relations Commission for eight years. For all eight years on the commission, she was the chair of the Harmony Festival Ball. Shirley is currently a commissioner of the Sister Cities Commission and has been a chair person for the past two years. She helped raise money at last year’s Sister Cities International Mardi Gras Ball, of which over $7,000 was donated to the Monterey Park Fire Department for emergency laptops that were much needed. In 2008, she went to South Korean sister city Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea with eight other people from Monterey Park.Shirley has served three terms as vice president of the Chinese American Citizens Alliance of Greater San Gabriel Valley and is currently serving as a board member. Shirley was also active with the Monterey Park Rotary Club for five years.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Yvette Herrera Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Yvette Herrera for her commitment and service to the community of Burbank by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Yvette’s dedication to the community and the Big Sister Program are exactly the kind of efforts we need in these troubled times,” said Schiff. “As a volunteer with Big Brothers myself, I know how much her hard work strengthens the community and provides new opportunities for young women.”In 1993, Yvette was honored at the White House as National Big Sister of the Year for her volunteer efforts to help develop multi-cultural programming as well as fundraising for Big Sisters of Los Angeles and modeling the agency’s first Asian Big-Little Sister match. A graduate of the statewide leadership development program for women, Leadership California, she currently serves on their Board of Directors. Yvette’s previous community service activities include serving as President of the Asian Pacific Women’s Network and co-chairing the City of Los Angeles Asian Pacific Heritage Month Celebration. She has also served as Board President of the Burbank Community YMCA since 2008. During her term, the YMCA built and opened a much needed parking lot and conducted its most successful annual campaign, meeting the challenge of raising $100,000 in donations during difficult economic times. In 2009 she co-chaired a first-time event for the Asian Pacific Women’s Center, which exceeded its fundraising goal, netting over $25,000 for victims of domestic violence. Yvette currently works in the non-profit sector as a Planning Director for United Way of Greater Los Angeles. During her tenure at United Way, she has developed an outreach infrastructure to the growing Asian Pacific Islander communities in both the San Fernando and San Gabriel Valleys and raised funds coordinating United Way workplace campaigns. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Nova Hindoyan Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 30, 2010Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Nova Hindoyan Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Nova Hindoyan for her commitment and service to Pasadena by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Nova has been a tremendous contributor to the community here in Pasadena,” Schiff said. “Her passion for music and commitment to serve her fellow immigrants is indicative of her great talent and generous nature.”Nova came to the United States in 1975 from Damascus, Syria to attend her brother's wedding. While here, she met Garabet Hindoyan, then a student and now the co-owner of Burger Continental Restaurant in Pasadena. They fell in love and married within the same year. They are blessed with a son and two daughters. Nova has been a long-time dedicated member of the Armenian Relief Society of Western USA, Inc. (ARS-WR), and has held executive positions as Chair of the Armenian Relief Society of Pasadena Chapter "SOSSE," as well as serving on the Executive Board of Directors of the ARS-WR as vice chair and chair. She has worked on the ARS Public Relations Committee’s special events, Red Cross blood drives, and the City of Hope Bone Marrow Registry. Nova has always been an active parent and was on the Parent-Teacher Association while all three of her children were in school. With her leadership, she was able to raise funds for special projects for ARS, most recently for the Society's Centennial Fund. She was also on the Board of Directors of the Old Town Conservatory School of Music in Pasadena, as well as on the Board of Directors and an active participant of the Lark Musical Society. Nova has sponsored and opened her home to foreign students who have come to the United States for their studies. Today, Nova is on the Board of the Directors of the ARS Central Executive, while staying active in her chapter in Pasadena.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Kay Rosser Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 30, 2010Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Kay Rosser Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Kay Rosser for her commitment and service to South Pasadena by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “South Pasadena is fortunate to have so many superb cultural arts programs and organizations, and that is due, in large part, to the efforts of Kay,” said Schiff. “Kay sets a tremendous example of what it means to give back to the community.”Kay began her volunteer work in South Pasadena when her two daughters were in elementary school during the early seventies. Kay helped in the classroom and with Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) special projects dealing with teen suicide and teen alcoholism. She was instrumental in creating the Theatre Arts Angels, a parent support group for the South Pasadena High School drama program.She has been a volunteer in the South Pasadena Public Library since the early nineties and was a member of the Board of Trustees for seven years. Today, she is still intimately involved with the library and co-chairs the Library’s Restoration Concerts, a classical and jazz concert series that benefits the restoration of the library’s community room. Embarrassed to have major artists perform on the library’s aging piano, Kay plunged herself into researching and leading the effort to raise $35,000 to purchase a refurbished Steinway. When the funding for the piano was complete, Kay led the effort to raise more donations to fund a Quartet in Residence, the highly-acclaimed New Hollywood String Quartet, now performing in its third season. In addition to her work in South Pasadena, Kay has been a volunteer coordinator for thirteen years with Plaza de la Raza, a school of performing arts with afternoon classes in music, theatre, dance, and the visual arts offered to children in East Los Angeles and beyond.In 1990, Kay worked as an assistant to the Chairman of Volunteers for the Los Angeles Festival, and in 1993, she became Chairman of Volunteers and recruited over 1,000 volunteers for the Festival. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who – through their work or volunteerism – have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Juanita West Tillman Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 30, 2010Contact: Maureen Shanahan (202) 225-4176 Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Juanita West Tillman for her commitment and service to Altadena by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “For more than 25 years, Juanita has worked tirelessly on behalf of students providing our children a brighter future,” explained Schiff. “Her expansive efforts in educating and mentoring children demonstrate the potential just one dedicated individual can have on her community.”Juanita has been a resident of Pasadena and Altadena for fifty-five years. For the past 26 years, she has taught in the Los Angeles Archdiocese and Pasadena Unified School District (PUSD). During her career at PUSD, Juanita served on School Leadership Teams, School Site Councils, School Library Grant Writing Committees, the Pasadena Historical Society Curriculum Committee, and in a Professional Development Academy and Literacy Academy. Her focus on improving the lives of African American youth continues to be a central tenet of her efforts. She is an advisor and active supporter of the Mentoring & Partnership for Youth Development (MPYD), a male mentoring program at John Muir High School. She is a co-founder of Entering the College Zone, a National Black Child Development program; and a founding member and past president of the Pasadena Delta Foundation, which is the first African American Organization in the Pasadena area to establish a six-figure scholarship endowment fund. As chairperson of the Education Committee of the Pasadena NAACP Branch, Juanita has utilized the resources of a national organization to spearhead local education initiatives. Today, Juanita can be found at the Pasadena Playhouse where she is a member and volunteers as an usher; or at the First AME Church where she serves as a Class Leader providing encouragement and service to her class members. In addition to mentoring and advising children, Juanita has been a leading organizer in getting citizens registered to vote and out to the polls.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Dr. Gay Toltl Kinman Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 30, 2010Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Dr. Gay Toltl Kinman Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Dr. Gay Toltl Kinman for her commitment and service to Alhambra by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Volunteering her time and talent in ever increasing abundance, Gay’s work continues to benefit the entire Alhambra community,” said Schiff. “She shows great care and dedication in all her efforts and we are grateful for the tremendous difference she has made in the life of our community.” Gay has been active with both the City of Alhambra and the Alhambra Chamber of Commerce. As vice president of the Housing and Urban Development Committee for the City of Alhambra, Gay assisted the Alhambra Historical Society in obtaining a grant for the Alhambra Historical Society Museum. Gay also served as president of the Civil Service Commission for the City of Alhambra. While a member of the Alhambra Chamber of Commerce, Gay formed the planning committee for the Chinese New Year Festival Parade, which still takes place today, and then was chair of the parade. Gay also served as Chair of Transportation on the Government Affairs Committee for the Alhambra Chamber of Commerce.Gay has been involved with Soroptimist International (SI) of Alhambra, San Gabriel, and San Marino. As president of the chapter, Gay helped bring in a record of nine new members, established the Friendship Link exchange where members of SI Burnley, England visited, helped establish the link between Alhambra Curves and La Casa de San Gabriel Community Center, and was the chair of various committees. She also founded the Soroptimist Camino Real Region’s Friendship Grant Committee, which provides hospitality and professional education every two years for a Soroptimist from another part of the world. Currently, she is the Alhambra, San Gabriel, and San Marino chapter’s co-vice president of programs, chair of the Woman of Distinction Award Committee, and co-chair of Reading is Fundamental, which buys books for third graders in the Alhambra and San Gabriel School Districts.In addition to Soroptimists, Gay has given her time to various organizations throughout Alhambra. For the Alhambra Historical Society, she has served as president and publicity chair. As a board member for the Alhambra Educational Foundation, she started the Authors Festival, which brings over eighty children's authors, storytellers, and illustrators to the Alhambra Unified School District. As chair of the Alhambra Red Cross Council, she helped restore the presence of the Red Cross in Alhambra and taught volunteer training classes. She has been secretary for the Alhambra Toastmasters, a volunteer for Meals on Wheels, and is currently head usher at Alhambra’s All Souls Church. In addition, she helped design Alhambra’s float for the Tournament of Roses Parade.On top of all this, Gay has been active outside of Alhambra with the YMCA West San Gabriel Valley, the Special Libraries Association of Southern California, the Los Angeles County Deputy Commissioner of Civil Marriages, the League of Women Voters Greater Pasadena Area, and the Huntington Library, Art Collections, and Botanical Gardens.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.30.10	03.30.10 Catherine Keen Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 30, 2010Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Catherine Keen Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Catherine “Cathy” Keen for her commitment and service to Glendale by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “The children of Glendale could not ask for a more effective and enthusiastic advocate than Cathy,” Schiff said. “Her involvement in education and philanthropy on behalf of children make her worthy of being named Woman of the Year.” Cathy has served the Glendale community primarily in the area of child advocacy, spending many years as an officer in the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) at the elementary, middle school, high school, and council levels, including president of the Glenoaks PTA for two years. She was awarded the California Golden Oak Service Award by the State PTA, the highest level award bestowed by the PTA. She also served as president of the Glenoaks Elementary School Foundation in 1994.Cathy is active in Las Candelas, a philanthropic group which works to improve the lives of emotionally disturbed children. Cathy served as president of Las Candelas for two years and has chaired their biennial benefit twice, raising $140,000 for programs for emotionally disturbed children. In 1993, she was a finalist for the Glendale News Press Woman of Achievement, nominated for her help with the family of a dying child.She chaired the Glendale Healthy Kid’s (GHK) popular “Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner?” for nine years and also served on the Board of Directors of GHK for six years. She served as president of the Board of GHK and temporarily filled in as executive director. Cathy personally published the GHK newsletter for five years and received the GHK Volunteer of the Year Award.Cathy is currently serving as president of the Kiwanis Club of Glendale, the second woman in eighty-nine years to hold this position. In Kiwanis, she has served as Chairman of Youth Services for two years, overseeing nineteen Kiwanis projects to help community youth, and has served on the Board of Directors. Cathy also publishes the weekly Kiwani News and is a regular reporter for the news when not serving as president. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.25.10	03.25.10 Rep. Schiff Applauds MTA Agreement that Clears the Way for Construction to Begin on Gold Line Foothill Extension Washington D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff applauded the Los Angeles Metro Transportation Authority (Metro) on approving two agreements today that will allow construction to begin on Phase 2A of the Gold Line Foothill Extension from Pasadena to Azusa in June. The two agreements, the Master Cooperative Agreement (MCA) and the Fund Transfer Agreement (FTA), allocate hundreds of millions of Measure R dollars for Phase 2A of the extension and set a timeline for it to be completed. The project will create thousands of jobs in the local construction industry, which has been hit hard by the recession. “This is great news when we need it most,” said Schiff. “Constructing the Gold Line Foothill Extension will give our local economy a significant and greatly needed boost. It will create jobs immediately and generate hundreds of millions in economic activity once it is completed.” These agreements also include guidelines for the Metro and the Metro Gold Line Foothill Construction Authority to work together on overseeing the progress of the design and construction of the new line. In recent months, Rep. Schiff had several productive conversations with Metro urging the two organizations to work together to ensure that today’s agreements were reached in order to ensure that the project remained on track to break ground in June.Once completed the Gold Line Foothill Extension will bring hundreds of millions of dollars in commerce to the communities along the line. It will also ease congestion on overcrowded local roads and highways and improve air quality.
03.21.10	03.21.10 Voting On Historic Health Care Reform Legislation CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESTwo years ago, during a telephone townhall with my constituents, one of my neighbors in Burbank told me that her young daughter had become ill. Our children played together in preschool, and they lived just a few doors down. When her daughter became sick, they were able to get her the health care she needed through a program called Healthy Families. She was now, thankfully, all better. But now, my constituent told me, she herself was ill. She and her husband were both self-employed and could not afford health insurance, and she was scared to death to get her illness treated at the emergency room. Her question to me that night was: “Is there any hope for families like mine?” The answer tonight is "yes." There is now hope for millions of self-employed Americans who cannot afford health care, and millions more who are small business people struggling to provide health care for themselves and their employees. And there is hope for millions of others who have pre-existing conditions and cannot obtain health insurance. And for millions of seniors who have fallen through the donut hole in their prescription drug coverage. Because tonight's bill will address the needs of each and every one of these Americans who are struggling to afford the coverage they have, or find health insurance when they are without.Our health insurance system is intrinsically linked to our Nation's and California's economic recovery. There are now more than 30 million American citizens who do not have health insurance coverage, and every day, 14,000 Americans lose their coverage. In fact, Californians are more likely to be uninsured than most Americans--over 7 million Californians are uninsured this year.Millions of Americans now receive their care at the emergency room, and millions more must make the difficult choice of whether to pay their medical bills or pay their mortgage because they cannot afford to do both; two-thirds of all bankruptcies and half of all foreclosures are a result of a health care crisis in the family.This recession has highlighted wide and growing gaps in our health care system. Families lose their insurance coverage when a parent in the household becomes unemployed, and too many parents without employment are falling through those widening cracks--unable to afford COBRA, ineligible for public coverage, and precluded by high premiums and/or pre-existing conditions from obtaining private insurance.Collectively, as a Nation, we spend almost twice as much per person on health care as any other country, or about 17 percent of our gross domestic product, and this number is growing every year far faster than inflation.Tonight, I'm voting to pass legislation that will substantially reform the health insurance industry and practices, extend quality coverage to millions of Americans, and hold down national, public, and private health care costs. This bill will help provide stable coverage that cannot be taken away and won't be lost when you change jobs, and will provide additional insurance choices in an invigorated and competitive marketplace.In my district alone, this bill will provide tax credits and financial assistance to over 135,000 families and 15,000 small business owners in order to help them afford coverage, and extend coverage to 80,000 uninsured residents. This bill will close the "donut hole" for 94,000 seniors, and extend the life of Medicare. Further, we act tonight in a fiscally responsible manner, reducing the deficit by over $1.3 trillion during the next two decades.Tonight, we make it illegal to deny health coverage to the 15,000 constituents in my district with pre-existing conditions. We ensure that the costs of health care won't threaten their family's finances, that their doctor is paid for making them well and not ordering unnecessary tests, and that their health care premiums are spent on actual care, not paying for paperwork and red tape.I have two young children, and I cannot imagine the dread that a parent must feel who has a sick child for whom they cannot provide care. That is an agony no parent should ever know. Not here. Not in America. I have had one steady guide through my years in Congress, and it is my two children. When they are old enough to know of my work in Congress, I want them to be proud of what their father did when he had a chance to serve this great Nation. And I believe they will be proud of me for casting my vote to provide health care for millions who do not have it, just as I am proud of the generation who went before and provided health care for millions of seniors when they had the courage to pass Medicare.I strongly believe that access to affordable, quality, stable health care is the key to a productive work force, small business innovation, and the economic as well as health security of our families and Nation, and I'm proud to vote for this bill.
03.18.10	03.18.10 Rep. Schiff Continues Fight to Reduce DNA Kit Backlog During Committee Hearings with the Attorney General and FBI Director Washington, D.C. - Rep. Schiff this week pressed forward with his efforts to reduce the nation’s DNA kit backlog during hearings with Attorney General Holder and FBI Director Mueller. At Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee hearings this week, Rep. Schiff questioned these top Administration officials about their departments’ efforts to help reduce DNA kit backlogs. In response, both men made strong commitments to eradicating the backlogs and each provided progress updates on their departments’ ongoing efforts.“DNA evidence is the one of the best tools we have to help solve violent crimes,” said Schiff. “It is deplorable that we have a backlog of DNA rape kits when we know that these tests can help catch murderers and rapists and take them off the street before they can victimize others. The FBI could speed up the process of uploading DNA profiles and save the Los Angeles millions of dollars if we reduce unnecessary redundancy and make the process of analysis more efficient. I thank Attorney General Holder and Director Mueller for their commitment to work on this issue.”At a hearing on Tuesday, Attorney General Holder stated, “We have for fiscal year [2011] a $150 million DNA initiative to try to deal with the backlog, and also deal with ways in which we can ring out from this very, very promising technology efficiencies. I think people oftentimes think of DNA as only the thing that springs people who were unjustly accused of a -- of a crime. And it certainly has had that impact. But it is also a very, very important law enforcement tool that convicts people who have committed very, very serious crimes.”Director Mueller indicated progress in reducing the backlogs in stating, “I would say that the backlog that we've had in terms of ingesting the samples into DNA will be reduced to almost nothing by September. We now ingest, I think it's 25,000 samples a month. That will go up to 90,000 a month given the resources that were appropriated for -- appropriated for us back in 2009. We've now brought those persons onboard, and we are using -- reorienting how we do things. And we're also using robotics in ways we have not in the past. So that by September our hope is that there'll be no more than a 30-day delay in ingesting any samples, new samples that come in, regardless of the amounts that have tripled, quadrupled over the years, as I know you understand.”In response to a question from Congressman Schiff related to the FBI technical review requirements, Director Mueller stated that the FBI was reviewing their policy and would be announcing a fix in that area shortly. Both the Los Angeles Police Department and the Los Angeles Sherriff’s Department have used private labs to expedite the processing of the rape kit backlog, but FBI technical review requirements create a second backlog, slowing down the closing of the backlog.For years, Rep. Schiff has been spearheading Congressional efforts to reduce DNA kit backlogs. As a member of the Appropriations Committee, he secured $500,000 for the Rape Kit Backlog Elimination Program run by the Los Angeles Police Department in the Omnibus that passed in December 2009. In the same bill he also helped secure $500,000 for DNA equipment for the Regional Crime Lab being established in Glendale and $1,000,000 for County of Los Angeles Sheriff's Department for its Rape Kit Backlog Reduction Program. Rep. Schiff has also pushed legislation to require the DNA testing of anyone arrested for a violent felony, a proposal give new momentum recently when the President embraced the idea during his appearance on John Walsh’s 1000th episode of America’s Most Wanted.
03.11.10	03.11.10 House Impeaches U.S. District Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr. Washington, D.C. – Today on the House Floor, House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment Chairman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Ranking Member Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), presented the case for impeachment of Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr., of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana to the full House. After the presentation, the House unanimously approved four impeachment articles relating to Judge Porteous. Following the impeachment vote, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte were named the lead impeachment managers for the Senate trial. “Our investigation found that Judge Porteous participated in a pattern of corrupt conduct for years,” said Schiff. “Litigants have the right to expect a judge hearing their case will be fair and impartial, and avoid even the appearance of impropriety. Regrettably, no one can have that expectation in Judge Porteous' courtroom. We hope the Senate will schedule the trial expeditiously, so that we may prove our case and remove him from office."“Indeed, it is a rare and solemn occasion when the House of Representatives must vote on articles of impeachment against a federal judge,” said Goodlatte. “Today’s vote marks only the second time in over 20 years that this has occurred. However, when evidence emerges that an individual is abusing his judicial office for his own advantage, the integrity of the entire judicial system becomes compromised. Today the House of Representatives took swift action to restore confidence in the judicial system by impeaching Judge Porteous.”According to the Congressional Research Service, Judge Porteous is only the 15th federal judge in the nation’s history impeached by the House. In January, the House Judiciary Committee’s Task Force on Judicial Impeachment and the full House Judiciary Committee unanimously approved the four articles of impeachment. Now that the full House has passed these articles of impeachment, a trial for Judge Porteous’s removal will be held in the Senate. As the lead impeachment managers, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte will make the case in the Senate for Judge Porteous’s removal. Following an initial investigatory phase, the Task Force on Judicial Impeachment held four separate evidentiary hearings over five days in November and December 2009, in order to determine whether Judge Porteous’s conduct provides a sufficient basis for impeachment and to develop a record upon which to recommend whether to adopt Articles of Impeachment. This investigation led the Task Force and the full committee to unanimously approve four articles of impeachment citing evidence that Judge Proteous intentionally made material false statements and representations under penalty of perjury, engaged in a corrupt kickback scheme, solicited and accepted unlawful gifts, and intentionally misled the Senate during his confirmation proceedings.
02.26.10	02.26.10 House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment Recommends Impeachment of Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr. Tuesday, January 26, 2010Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment Recommends Impeachment of Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr. Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment, Chaired by Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Ranking Member Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), concluded its inquiry of Judge G. Thomas Porteous, Jr., of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana by recommending articles of impeachment to the full House Judiciary Committee. The Task Force concluded that Judge Porteous violated his Constitutional oath by engaging in high crimes and misdemeanors. “Judge Porteous engaged in a pattern of conduct that is incompatible with the trust and confidence placed in him as a Federal judge,” said Schiff. “His longstanding pattern of corrupt conduct, so utterly lacking in honesty and integrity, demonstrates his unfitness to serve as a United States District Court Judge.”“After hearing the testimony of witnesses and examining all the evidence it has become clear that Judge Porteous engaged in misconduct that warrants the issuance of articles of impeachment against him,” said Rep. Goodlatte. “The evidence shows Judge Porteous was abusing his judicial office for his own advantage, that he violated court orders and lied under oath, compromising the integrity of our entire judicial system. The House of Representatives has the duty to investigate the matter and take the appropriate actions to end this abuse and restore confidence in the judicial system.”Following an initial investigatory phase, the Task Force on Judicial Impeachment held four separate evidentiary hearings over five days in November and December 2009, in order to determine whether Judge Porteous’s conduct provides a sufficient basis for impeachment and to develop a record upon which to recommend whether to adopt Articles of Impeachment. This investigation led the Task Force to unanimously approve four articles of impeachment citing evidence that Judge Proteous intentionally made material false statements and representations under penalty of perjury, engaged in a corrupt kickback scheme, solicited and accepted unlawful gifts, and intentionally misled the Senate during his confirmation proceedings. Judge Porteous would be only the 15th federal judge in the nation’s history to be impeached in the House. The full House Judiciary is expected to consider the impeachment articles recommended by the Task Force in the coming days.
02.25.10	02.25.10 In Support of the Intelligence Authorization Bill I thank the gentleman for yielding.Madam Chair, I rise in support of the intelligence authorization bill. As a member of the committee, I am confident it provides our intelligence community with the tools it needs to keep our country safe. There are two aspects of the bill that I would like to highlight.First, the bill includes the most substantial reform to the oversight relationship between Congress and the executive branch in a generation. The bill requires that the President provides all notifications in writing and to maintain a record of briefings. It requires the President to inform all members of the Intelligence Committees when a Gang of Eight briefing is conducted, giving members who are not in the Gang of Eight the awareness they need to prevent abuse of the process. It requires the President to open up the briefing to the full committee after 180 days unless the Director of National Intelligence recertifies that the standards of the statute are still met.Second, the bill makes critical investments in our overhead infrastructure and architecture. This is essential to our intelligence capability and wouldn't be possible without the work of some of the most brilliant minds in the country, like the scientists at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.We are not giving the administration a blank check. It is imperative that our major acquisitions stay on budget and on schedule. Resources are scarce, and we cannot allow a handful of programs to spin out of control. The committee will keep a close eye on those programs.
02.19.10	02.19.10 Schiff to Host Panel Discussion with Experts Washington, DC – On Sunday, February 28, 2010, Congressman Adam Schiff will host a panel discussion about the crisis in Haiti and efforts underway to rebuild the country. The panel will be held from 5:00 to 7:00 pm in the Altadena Public Library’s Community Room and will include experts involved in the recovery efforts and an overview from Rep. Schiff on aid being provided by the American government. “Haiti is still very much in crisis and the potential loss of life is every bit as great over the next several months as it has been over the last several weeks. I have heard from many concerned constituents who want to know what they can do to help,” said Schiff. “This panel is comprised of experts who have travelled to Haiti since the earthquake, and have firsthand knowledge and I look forward to hearing what they have to say and to suggest.”Below are the confirmed panelists:Dr. Henri Ford, Surgeon-in-Charge at the Children’s Hospital of Los Angeles – Dr. Ford is a native of Haiti and recently returned from the country after performing hundreds of hours of emergency surgery.Andrew Mollenbeck, reporter for KNX 1070 News Radio – Mr. Mollenbeck is a reporter for KNX 1070 News Radio who recently returned from a week-long trip to Haiti where he covered the aftermath of earthquake.Dr. Jean Bouchebel, Director Resource Development for World Vision – Dr. Bouchebel has served as the Resource Development Director for World Vision International since 1999. World Vision is a development and advocacy organization that has worked in Haiti for over 30 years. Since the earthquake the agency has been distributing shelter supplies to thousands of people in camps and has helped more than half a million people with food and other emergency assistance.Event Details:Sunday, February 28, 20105:00-7:00 p.m.Altadena Public Library, Community Room600 E. Mariposa St., Altadena, CA 91001
02.16.10	02.16.10 President Signs Into Law Schiff Legislation to "Fingerprint" Nuclear Material Washington, DC – Today, President Obama signed into law Rep. Adam Schiff’s Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act (H.R. 730). The legislation will strengthen efforts in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material, and will also encourage the President to negotiate international agreements to govern international nuclear forensics activities. “If we can determine the source of nuclear material, we can better attack smuggling networks and plug the security holes that allow deadly material to be obtained in the first place,” said Schiff. “Nuclear states like North Korea may be deterred from transferring nuclear material if they know it can be traced back to them.”In the event of nuclear material being intercepted at a border crossing or in a sting operation, there may be few clues to assist investigators in determining where the bomb or material originated. The radioactive material itself may be the only lead. Each sample of nuclear material has an elemental fingerprint that can help determine its source. However, current efforts to trace materials are often incomplete because the technology is still in development and information on foreign reactors and stockpiles is not available. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act will authorize the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center at DHS to coordinate the government’s nuclear forensics efforts and encourage technicians and scientists to enter the field. It will also call upon the President to lead international efforts to share nuclear forensics data.Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on securing vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. Last year, Rep. Schiff co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security, which seeks to identify the most urgent vulnerabilities and take immediate action to improve nuclear safeguards, secure fissile materials, and prevent the misuse of sensitive nuclear materials and technologies. Congressman Schiff has introduced several bipartisan bills that would reduce the threat of a nuclear disaster. He introduced legislation this Congress to fight nuclear terrorism by classifying nuclear smuggling as a crime against humanity. In the last Congress, he introduced legislation that would prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. Rep. Schiff is a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, the House Appropriations Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
02.12.10	02.12.10 Latest News
01.20.10	01.20.10 On Passage of the Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMadam Speaker, at the outset, I want to thank and congratulate the Homeland Security Committee and Chairman Thompson. The committee has taken an important step forward towards preventing nuclear terrorism by persevering with this legislation, and I appreciate all of the hard work that the chairman and staff have put into it.I also want to thank other Members who have contributed greatly to the effort, one being the ranking member, Peter King.Mr. King, once again, I thank you for your leadership in this area.I want to thank the former chairman of the Emerging Threats Subcommittee, an early supporter, Jim Langevin; the current chairwoman of that subcommittee, Yvette Clarke; as well as the ranking member of the subcommittee, Dan Lungren; and in the last Congress, Michael McCaul.The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act will help us fight one of the most important national security threats we face, that of nuclear proliferation. Countries around the world now have access to technology that was once the realm of the few; and dangerous nuclear materials are, unfortunately, sprinkled around the world. This is not a new problem. Illicit nuclear material has been intercepted in transit out of the former Soviet Union many times since the end of the Cold War, and the material we catch is surely only a small fraction of the total amount trafficked.Last year, Graham Allison wrote in Newsweek that the only thing that could keep nuclear bombs out of the hands of terrorists is a brand-new science of nuclear forensics. He continued that the key to a new deterrent is coming up with some way of tracing the nuclear material backward from an explosion in New York City to the reactor that forged the fissile material, even to the mines that yielded the original uranium ore.The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act is designed to do just that. It is aimed at the decision-makers in North Korea, Pakistan, Iran or elsewhere who could sell nuclear material, as well as the smugglers and corrupt officials around the world who could steal it. Those parts of the nuclear network can be deterred by the knowledge that, if their material is later intercepted, the United States will find out and will hold them responsible.This bill expands our ability to determine the source of nuclear material by authorizing the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center in the Department of Homeland Security. This center will coordinate the various agencies, and it will ensure an efficient combined response when nuclear material is intercepted or used, God forbid, in a weapon. It will also advance the science of nuclear forensics, bringing in new radiochemists and physicists to rejuvenate a rapidly aging workforce and funding research on new methods to identify materials. It also takes an important step toward building the nuclear forensic database we will need to effectively track nuclear material.The bill asks the President to negotiate agreements with other nations to share forensic data on their nuclear materials, both civilian and military.This effort is vital, and the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center must play a key role in negotiations to ensure that the data we obtain is the data we need for quick attribution and response.Nuclear terrorism is an indistinct threat of devastating consequence and therefore difficult to guard against. But as communications and transportation revolutions bring us ever closer to our allies, they bring our enemies close as well. I believe this bill will help make sure that our ability to prevent a nuclear terror attack keeps up with our enemies' ability to attempt one.Again, I want to thank the chairman and ranking member for their leadership and urge all Members to support the bill.
12.19.09	12.19.09 Celebrating Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension Authority's Ten Years of Service Madam Speaker, I rise today to congratulate the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension Construction Authority as it celebrates ten years of service and commitment to the community. Since the Construction Authority was established by the California State Legislature to design and construct the Pasadena Metro Gold Line, it has completed 13.7 miles of light rail, which averages 24,000 daily weekday boardings.One decade ago, the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, faced with serious budgetary problems, delayed the construction of the light-rail line to Pasadena. Senate Bill 1847 was introduced to create the Construction Authority and finish the work that had already been started on the new rail line. The newly created Construction Authority was not only able to complete the project on time but was also able to build it under budget.Today, the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension Construction Authority is continuing its work in connecting downtown Los Angeles to the San Gabriel Valley and beyond. Funding has been secured to extend the line to the city of Azusa and plans are in place to continue the Gold Line to Montclair and Ontario International Airport. The success of the Gold Line is a testament of the collaborate efforts between the staff of the Construction Authority and the elected officials, civic leaders, and residents of the surrounding communities.The Gold Line not only provides a reliable and efficient source of transportation to residents of the greater Los Angeles region, it also alleviates traffic and is a part of our fight to reduce pollution. The congestion on the Gold Line corridor highways has continued to increase as the Inland Empire grows in population. As we work to find solutions to solve our traffic congestion dilemma, extending the Gold Line into our eastern cities is clearly part of the answer.It is with great pleasure that I congratulate the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension Construction Authority on its ten years of success. I am proud of the role I have played in helping the Gold Line become the pride of the San Gabriel Valley and I wish it continued success!
12.15.09	12.15.09 House Passes Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act Tuesday, December 15, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Passes Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act Measure requires expanded examination of freedom of the press worldwide WASHINGTON, DC— Today, the House passed the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act, a bill authored by Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Pence (R-IN) Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press. The legislation expands the examination of press freedom worldwide in the State Department’s annual human rights report. Earlier this year the bill passed as part of the State Department Authorization bill; however, that bill has stalled in the Senate. The bill that passed today stands on its own and its Senate companion is showing promise, having already passed the Foreign Relations Committee. “We have drawn inspiration from Daniel Pearl’s life and hope this legislation will better protect his colleagues who serve on the frontlines in the fight for greater accountability and transparency,” said Schiff. “Freedom of expression cannot exist where journalists are not safe from persecution and attack. Our government must promote freedom of the press by putting on center stage those countries in which journalists are killed, imprisoned, kidnapped, threatened, or censored.”“This bill is not only dedicated to Daniel Pearl in name, but it is a fitting tribute to the many who have gone before him, and those that still face similar dangers today,” Pence said. “As a conservative who believes in limited government, I believe the only check on government power in real time is a free and independent press. A free press ensures the flow of information to the public and serves as a vital check on abuses of power. During a time when the role of government in our lives and our enterprises seems to grow every day, ensuring the vitality of a free and independent press is more important than ever.”The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act is named in honor of former Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan, just four months after the September 11th attacks. The measure calls upon the Secretary of State to greatly expand its examination of the status of freedom of the press worldwide in the State Department’s Annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices. The Daniel Pearl Act requires the State Department to identify countries in which there were violations of press freedom, and whether the government authorities of those countries participate in, facilitate, or condone the violations. This report will spotlight those governments which seek to silence media opposition.
12.15.09	12.15.09 Supporting the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act I thank the gentleman. I will be very brief.Mr. Speaker, I wanted to add to the comments that my colleagues have made in their segue to the bill that follows the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act, which is the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act.I am a strong supporter of this legislation. I commend my colleagues, Chairman Berman and Ranking Member Ros-Lehtinen, for their leadership on this issue.One of the most serious threats facing our country is the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iran. This is an oppressive regime, one that has threatened to wipe one of its neighbors off the map. The possession of a nuclear bomb by Iran is enormously dangerous in its own regard, but it is all the more destabilizing in its potential of starting a nuclear arms race in the Middle East.The President has offered carrots and the international community has offered carrots to Iran to step back from its pursuit of nuclear weapons. The Congress today takes an important step to make sure that there are sticks which are offered as well if Iran refuses the very generous offer by the international community to reprocess uranium--to provide it for peaceful energy purposes, to have Iran send its uranium out of the country so that it can be put in a form where it cannot be used for nuclear weapons.This legislation, which will potentially crack down on Iran's ability to refine its petroleum, will put the most severe pressure on the Iranian regime to back away from a program that time and again we have seen it pursue, as much as it has declared to the contrary. So this legislation, I think more so than any other, will put teeth in a regime of sanctions, will put pressure on Iran to back away from its nuclear bomb-making efforts, and in so doing, will inure to the safety of our own country, to the safety of Israel and to the entire region.So I thank the chairman for his leadership on this. I urge my colleagues to support the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act.
12.10.09	12.10.09 Rep. Schiff Secures Federal Funds to Assist Local Law Enforcement Efforts and Bolster Regional DNA Forensic Technology Thursday, December 10, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Rep. Schiff Secures Federal Funds to Assist Local Law Enforcement Efforts and Bolster Regional DNA Forensic Technology WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.R. 3288), a bill that sets funding levels for a major portion of the federal budget for fiscal year 2010. Rep. Schiff, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, helped secure important federal funding in the bill for several local law enforcement initiatives to help improve local DNA testing capabilities, reduce the backlog of untested DNA rape kits in the Los Angeles area and upgrade communications systems for local law enforcement. The bill is expected to pass the Senate and then will be sent to the President to be signed into law.“DNA matching technology is one of the greatest advancements in forensic science since the fingerprint,” said Schiff. “The funding in this bill will help take violent felons off the street by speeding up DNA analysis through the establishment of a new lab in Glendale and by expanding training programs for DNA analysts in our region.”The bill includes $500,000 for DNA equipment for the Regional Crime Lab being established in Glendale. Although the regional DNA Laboratory will be located in Glendale, it will work in partnership with Burbank, Pasadena and surrounding cities and be capable of accepting evidence from throughout our region. Currently, these cities send their DNA to be tested by the County Crime Lab, which sometimes takes as long as nine months to process. This new lab will process crime scene and cold case evidence at a lower cost than a private lab. The County of Los Angeles Sheriff's Department will receive $1,000,000 for its Rape Kit Backlog Reduction Program. The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department has more than 4,700 unanalyzed sexual assault kits in evidence storage. Los Angeles County is implementing a new policy to test all rape kits and is aggressively working through the backlog of kits to complete this goal. These funds will be used to help reduce the backlog and ensure all kits are analyzed and uploaded into the FBI’s national DNA database. “This funding will help clear the backlog of DNA samples and stop predators before they strike again,” said Schiff. “These funds will go a long way toward finally solving hundreds, possibly thousands of cold sexual assaults cases – ultimately making our neighborhoods safer.”There is also $500,000 included in the measure for the Rape Kit Backlog Elimination Program run by the Los Angeles Police Department. Over the last 12 years, the Los Angeles Police Department has collected approximately 14,000 sexual assault evidence kits. These kits have not all been examined and are being maintained in LAPD evidence storage freezers. However, detectives only requested testing in about one-half of the cases in which a kit was collected. The LAPD has now adopted a policy of testing every sexual assault kit, and have tested more than half of the backlog kits. These funds will be used to ensure that each and every rape kit at the LAPD is processed. The Interagency Communications Interoperability System (ICIS) run by the Cities of Glendale, Burbank and Pasadena will receive $500,000. ICIS increases public safety by enabling local law enforcement, governments and first responders to better communicate with each other during an emergency using one comprehensive integrated communication system. This funding will be used to purchase additional microwave paths for network enhancement for the only regional interoperable radio system in the LA area. This will make the network less vulnerable to failure and provide additional capacity for expansion. The bill also includes $250,000 for the City of Monterey Park for Police Communications Upgrades. The City's current radios have been in use for about 10 years and are nearing the end of their useful lifecycle. If the police department’s current radios are not replaced by 2010, radios that become defective may not be repairable and could leave officers without proper means of communication. These radio upgrades will allow police to better protect the city in case of a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other emergency. “In the event of a terrorist attack or a natural disaster, it is imperative that law enforcement and first responders have the ability to communicate with each other to coordinate an efficient and effective response,” said Schiff. “These communication systems can help save lives by enabling the brave men and women protecting our communities to do their jobs better.”
12.02.09	12.02.09 Rep. Schiff Invites Constituents and Students to Participate in Holiday Card Drive Wednesday, December 02, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Rep. Schiff Invites Constituents and Students to Participate in Holiday Card DriveHoliday Cards to be delivered to Wounded Troops Recovering at Walter Reed Medical CenterWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff is inviting his constituents to join him this holiday season in writing holiday cards to wounded service members recovering from battlefield injuries sustained in Afghanistan and Iraq. Rep. Schiff is also coordinating the holiday card drive with local schools in the 29th Congressional District and is encouraging students to participate in writing an uplifting note to these brave men and women.“The holiday season can be a difficult time of the year for those who selflessly serve our country in uniform, particularly those who are recovering from injuries,” said Schiff. “Many soldiers are separated from their family and friends during the holidays, and thoughtful words of encouragement, gratitude and support can go a long way to boost the morale of our bravest heroes.”The card drive is open to all of Congressman Schiff’s constituents. To take part, constituents should either purchase or make a holiday card that includes a written message of thanks to a service member. The cards should be unaddressed with an unsealed envelope and should be dropped off or sent to Rep. Schiff’s district office (87 N. Raymond Ave, Suite 800, Pasadena, CA 91103) by December 11th. Rep. Schiff will then deliver the cards to service men and women at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C. on behalf of the people of the 29th Congressional District.
11.20.09	11.20.09 Schiff Announces $1.65 Million for Early Head Start Program at the Center for Community and Family Services in Altadena Friday, November 20, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Announces $1.65 Million for Early Head Start Program at the Center for Community and Family Services in AltadenaWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has awarded the Center for Community and Family Services in Altadena a $1.65 million grant for its Early Head Start program. The funding is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) and it will provide services to infants, toddlers and pregnant women to help ensure children are healthy from the time of birth. “Early Head Start is a proven program that helps ensure children are happy, healthy and ready for school,” said Schiff. “This is an investment in our most precious resource – our next generation."The Center for Community and Family Services through the Early Head Start program will design programs that respond to the strengths and needs of individual families. Its services will include education, in and out of the home; home visits, especially for families with newborns and infants; parent education, including parent-child activities; comprehensive health services, including services to women during and after pregnancy; and ongoing parental support through case management and peer groups. Head Start is a program that provides comprehensive early childhood development services to low-income children and their families. It promotes school readiness and provides a comprehensive array of health, nutritional and social services to eligible four and five year old preschoolers and their families. The program has enrolled more than 25 million children since its inception. The Early Head Start program was established in 1995 for children from birth to three years of age and pregnant women in recognition of scientific evidence that a child’s earliest years are extremely important to healthy development.
11.16.09	11.16.09 Legislation Introduced in House and Senate to Better Manage Prison Population Growth Monday, November 16, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Legislation Introduced in House and Senate to Better Manage Prison Population GrowthCriminal Justice Reinvestment Act Would Help Localities Conduct Studies to Control CostsWashington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the Criminal Justice Reinvestment Act of 2009 to help states and localities better understand how to manage the growth in prison and jail populations and increase public safety. The legislation would authorize grants to analyze criminal justice trends and to design and implement policies to better manage prison spending. United States Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), John Cornyn (R-TX), and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) also introduced companion legislation today in the Senate.“In California, we are all too aware of the costs of failing to end the revolving door in and out of prison,” said Congressman Schiff. “If we don't do a better job reducing the rate of return to custody, we will have little or no money to invest in education, health care and other critical priorities. The Criminal Justice Reinvestment Act will employ proven strategies that drive down costs as they drive down recidivism, and thereby improve safety in our cities and neighborhoods.”“This bill will help state and local governments spend their limited corrections budgets in a more targeted, rational way to both manage inmate population growth and protect public safety,” Senator Whitehouse said.“The Criminal Justice Reinvestment Act will help states find the best ways to help better manage prison spending. The experience of states like Texas with this type of program has been uniformly positive and should be replicated,” said Senator Cornyn.“In recent years, federal and state governments have passed many new criminal laws creating more and longer sentences for more and more crimes,” said Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “While it is important to ensure that serious crimes result in significant sentences, we must work to make our criminal justice system as effective and efficient as possible. We have an obligation to help states cope with overburdened criminal justice systems and rising recidivism rates. The Criminal Justice Reinvestment Act will help jurisdictions to deal with the increased costs facing our correctional systems across the country, while also improving public safety and reducing recidivism.”Over 2,200,000 American adults are incarcerated in state and local prisons and jails; the prison population alone nearly tripled between 1987 and 2007, from 585,000 to almost 1,600,000 inmates. States, in turn, have increased spending on corrections by $40 billion in the past 20 years. Despite the continued growth of the inmate population, about half the states plan to cut corrections budgets for FY2010 amid budget shortfalls. The Criminal Justice Reinvestment Act of 2009 would create a two-part grant program for governments to analyze criminal justice trends, develop policy options to address growth in the corrections system, and implement and measure the impact of the policy changes. Through Phase 1 grants, government entities will be able to conduct a comprehensive analysis of corrections data, evaluate the cost-effectiveness of state and local spending on corrections, and develop policy options suggested by the analysis. Phase 2 grants will provide funds to help government entities implement those policy options and to measure their effectiveness. Model programs in Rhode Island and Texas have already shown that this type of analysis can dramatically reduce unnecessary spending.
11.06.09	11.06.09 Schiff, Poe Introduce Legislation Creating Innovative Program to Address Drug Use and Crime Friday, November 06, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Poe Introduce Legislation Creating Innovative Program to Address Drug Use and CrimeHOPE Program would reduce recidivism through closely-monitored probations paired with strict consequences for violatorsWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX) introduced legislation that will create a new program to fight drug use and crime. The Honest Opportunity Probation with Enforcement (HOPE) Initiative Act, builds on an initiative started in Hawaii that uses intensified supervision of probationers and implements swift and immediate consequences for violators.“There are far too many repeat offenders plaguing our streets and clogging up our judicial system,” said Schiff. “Innovative approaches like HOPE help reduce drug use and crime by rehabilitating offenders before long costly jail sentences are necessary.”“As a former judge and prosecutor for 30 years, I have a good understanding of the problems plaguing our criminal justice system and communities as a result of repeat offenders," said Rep. Poe. "I regularly used creative sentencing requirements to deter recidivism by minor offenders and it was proven to be highly effective. The HOPE Act gives judges more authority to impose stricter conditions of supervision on law violators and hold them more accountable to the law and the community.”In traditional probation programs violations such as illegal drug use, missing probation appointments, treatment and drug tests are too often ignored. When punishments are finally handed down, they tend to be lengthy and costly jail sentences. In 2004, Judge Steven Alm of Hawaii launched a pilot program to reduce probation violations by offenders at high risk of recidivism. The original program -- called Hawaii’s Opportunity Probation with Enforcement -- used hands-on supervision and set consequences of short jail stays for noncompliance. The new federal HOPE program, introduced today by Reps. Schiff and Poe, builds on the success of the Hawaii program. The bill will create a new competitive grant program for state and local courts to establish probation programs to reduce drug use, crime, and recidivism by requiring swift, predictable, and graduated sanctions for noncompliance with the conditions of probation. Preliminary evaluations show that HOPE probationers have significantly improved outcomes compared with probationers assigned to probation-as-usual in terms of drug use, missed probation appointments, new arrests, and probation revocations.
11.03.09	11.03.09 Schiff Calls on Attorney General to Establish a Department of Justice Task Force on Intellectual Property Enforcement Tuesday, November 03, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Calls on Attorney General to Establish a Department of Justice Task Force on Intellectual Property Enforcement WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff authored a bipartisan letter cosigned by 23 current and former House Judiciary Committee colleagues calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to establish a task force in the Department of Justice (DOJ) dedicated to intellectual property enforcement. With limited resources at DOJ for intellectual property enforcement, the letter suggests that such a task force can streamline efforts and help determine the most efficient and effective federal solutions to protecting intellectual property. The letter’s cosigners included the House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX). “Intellectual Property production is a vital engine that drives the Southern California economy and pumps billions of dollars and countless jobs into the national economy,” said Schiff. “However, with advancements in technology piracy is growing every day and taking money out of the pockets of American workers. We owe it to hardworking Americans, like the stagehand in Burbank or the computer programmer in the Silicon Valley, to give intellectual property enforcement the attention it deserves in the Department of Justice.” Below is the text of the letter sent to Attorney General Holder. November 3, 2009The Honorable Eric HolderAttorney GeneralU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Ave., NWWashington, D.C. 20530Dear Mr. Attorney General:On March 31, 2004, Attorney General John Ashcroft created a Justice Department Task Force on Intellectual Property, chaired by his Deputy Chief of Staff. The Task Force’s October 2004 Report indicated that its mission was, “to examine all of the Department of Justice’s intellectual property enforcement efforts and to explore methods for the Justice Department to strengthen its protection of the valuable intellectual resources.” We believe the Task Force played a critical role in focusing the Department’s limited resources on the most efficient and effective federal solutions to intellectual property theft. Indeed, Congress worked to address many of the issues and needs identified by the Task Force in the “PRO-IP Act of 2008” signed into law last fall.We are writing to encourage you to establish a similar group of experienced experts from across the Department’s different disciplines, and to constitute them under the leadership of a senior official from within the Office of the Attorney General. America’s economic future is tied to intellectual property. Thus, it is critical that the federal government have mechanisms in place to vigorously enforce intellectual property laws and cultivate an environment where creative and innovative industries can flourish. To meet with success, the Task Force must be under the direction of a senior official working under your authority; an expert whom policymakers can turn to in order to provide input into your Department’s efforts and allocation of resources in this area. At the same time, private industry and victims of intellectual property crimes need an empowered leader they can turn to in order to seek assistance, provide intelligence about emerging threats, and help the Department set meaningful enforcement priorities. As strong supporters of the recently nominated Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, we believe that individual would be well-supported by a Task Force leader who could establish a clear line into the Department of Justice’s policy and enforcement personnel and priorities. Sincerely,
10.29.09	10.29.09 Schiff Secures Federal Support for Two Public Works Projects that will Improve Public Health and Safety Thursday, October 29, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Secures Federal Support for Two Public Works Projects that will Improve Public Health and SafetyWASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed the Department of the Interior Appropriations Act (H.R. 2996), which included funding Representative Adam Schiff helped secure for two important public works projects in South Pasadena and Temple City. The City of South Pasadena will receive $300,000 to help replace the Wilson Reservoir, which is South Pasadena’s most critical water storage facility. The bill also included $200,000 for Temple City to construct an underground storm drain, which will remove a pool of stagnant water that has become a public safety hazard. The bill is expected to pass the Senate in the coming days and then will be sent to the President to be signed into law.“The reservoir and storm water infrastructure in our community is in desperate need of reconstruction, and I'm very pleased we could obtain federal support for these vital public health efforts,” said Schiff. “The Wilson Reservoir provides critical access to drinking water, and the construction of the storm drain in Temple City will ensure that stagnant water doesn’t spread disease.”The Wilson Reservoir was purchased in 1923 and holds 900,000 gallons. It does not meet current earthquake standards and an inspection report has indicated that a severe roof collapse could occur at any time. The reservoir is the City's most critical water storage site, and if it is taken out of service the City will be completely dependent upon outside water sources. South Pasadena is going to provide matching funds to help complete the project.The funds for Temple City will be used to construct a storm drain on an easement that runs through private property to Arden Drive, which is creating a pool of stagnant and unsanitary water on Green Street.
10.29.09	10.29.09 Schiff Introduces House Resolution to Honor Los Angeles Police Chief William Bratton Thursday, October 29, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces House Resolution to Honor Los Angeles Police Chief William BrattonWashington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff introduced a Resolution in the House of Representatives honoring William Bratton for his career in public service as Chief of Police of the cities of Boston, New York, and Los Angeles. On August 5th, Chief Bratton announced he would step down as Los Angeles Police Chief at the end of October. Since taking over as Los Angeles Police Chief in 2002, violent crime in Los Angeles has decreased by 30 percent and homicides have decreased 42 percent, exceeding national rates of declines.“Chief Bratton has been a leader in law enforcement for decades, and as Chief of Police in Los Angeles, he has been enormously successful in making our city safer,” said Schiff. “The people of Los Angeles, and the nation owe Chief Bratton a debt of gratitude for his years of service and his contributions to public safety.”As Chief of Police in New York, Chief Bratton instituted the CompStat system, which uses real-time crime data to target criminals and promote accountability. In Los Angeles, he worked successfully to improve relationships with communities across the city and to build partnerships between cops and neighborhoods. Throughout his nearly 40 years in law enforcement, Chief Bratton has pushed for innovative new strategies to prevent crime and keep streets safe.
10.27.09	10.27.09 Schiff Announces $40 Million in Federal Grants for Energy-Efficiency Smart Grids in Burbank and Glendale Tuesday, October 27, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Announces $40 Million in Federal Grants for Energy-Efficiency Smart Grids in Burbank and Glendale Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff announced that the cities of Burbank and Glendale will each receive $20 million to help build energy-efficient smart grids. Burbank and Glendale received two of only 100 such grants in the country, provided by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act. The smart grids will promote energy-saving choices for consumers, increase efficiency, and help create local jobs. “Our future is much brighter with the advancement of green technology,” said Schiff. “Innovative energy-efficient solutions will help grow our economy and make our nation energy independent. Southern California is leading the way with initiatives like the smart grids in Burbank and Glendale.”Rep. Schiff has long been a supporter of Burbank’s and Glendale’s smart grids, having supported funding for them in the House Energy and Water Appropriations bill. Earlier this month he had announced he successfully helped secured additional federal funds for Burbank’s smart grid. The smart grids will use state-of-the-art smart meters, and implement high-capacity Wi-Fi technology. They are also a vital first step in readying our energy delivery system to allow homeowners to put energy back in the grid from their solar panels and be paid for it.An analysis by the Electric Power Research Institute estimates that the implementation of smart grid technologies could reduce electricity use by more than 4 percent by 2030. That would mean a savings of $20.4 billion for businesses and consumers around the country.One-hundred private companies, utilities, manufacturers, cities and other partners received the Smart Grid Investment Grant awards today. The awards announced today represent the largest group of Recovery Act awards ever made in a single day and the largest batch of Recovery Act clean energy grant awards to-date.
10.20.09	10.20.09 Fourteen Southern California Members of Congress Write to MTA Board Requesting Local Transportation Projects be Included in Long Range Plan Tuesday, October 20, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Fourteen Southern California Members of Congress Write to MTA Board Requesting Local Transportation Projects be Included in Long Range PlanWith lack of MTA action Los Angeles could lose out on hundreds of millions in federal fundingWASHINGTON, DC – A bipartisan coalition of fourteen Members of Congress wrote to the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority Board of Directors requesting that the board include three local rail projects in its long range transportation plan. The letter spearheaded by Representatives Adam Schiff (CA-29), David Dreier (CA-26), Judy Chu (CA-32), and Grace Napolitano (CA-38) calls on the Metro Transit Authority (MTA) to include the Gold Line Foothill Extension, Gold Line Eastside Extension Phase II and Crenshaw/South Bay Transit Corridor in Metro's New Starts funding priority list. The three projects could potentially bring hundreds of millions of federal dollars to Los Angeles, which would create jobs and help reduce congestion. If these projects are not included in Metro’s New Starts funding priority list, Los Angeles might not be eligible for federal New Starts funds for years to come.“The MTA long range plan does not currently have a strategy to access much-needed federal funds for several years,” said Rep. Schiff. “If the Board does not include these projects, we leave hundreds of millions of federal dollars on the table that will be directed elsewhere in the country. At a time when our unemployment rate is among the highest in the nation, the MTA Board cannot afford to overlook the economic imperative to include these projects in its long range plan and bring dollars and jobs to the region.”“Regardless of where you live in southern California, traffic congestion and air quality impact your quality of life,” said Rep. Dreier. ‘In order to combat gridlock and its effects, we must pursue effective transit alternatives and prioritize our entire region’s needs. We have a broad, bipartisan group of Members agreeing on the need to do just that. It’s our hope that the MTA Board will join us in moving forward to help secure the federal resources needed to create jobs and invest in an infrastructure that works for all southern Californians.”“We need a federal strategy that truly leverages the billions of dollars being raised by Measure R and gives the county the most bang for its buck,” said Rep. Chu. “If the Gold Line Foothill and East Side extensions and Crenshaw Line are excluded from entering the federal process, myself and the rest of the local Congressional Delegation will very literally have our hands tied from helping meet our community’s transit needs.”Rep. Jerry Lewis (CA-41) the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee as well as other Members throughout the region cosigned the letter. The other cosigners included Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), Rep. Mary Bono Mack (CA-45), Rep. Diane Watson (CA-33), Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), Rep. Gary Miller (CA-42), Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-44), Jane Harman (CA-36), Joe Baca (CA-43) and Linda Sanchez (CA-39).The full text of the letter is below.Board of DirectorsLos Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority One Gateway PlazaLos Angeles, CA 90012Dear Metro Board of Directors:Los Angeles County is the largest and most congested region in the United States, yet it has received significantly less federal funding for transit projects than other areas. You are faced with a critical decision on Thursday that could worsen this regional inequity. We are writing to strongly urge you to have a more inclusive, regional and longer term federal funding strategy. In order to maximize federal funding we strongly urge you to broaden the County’s federal strategy. We are very concerned that Los Angeles County is not positioning itself well to receive its fair share of New Starts funding in the near- and long-term. Metro staff has estimated that the County should be receiving $200 million in federal funding annually. However, Metro's current plan puts the County at risk of being out of the New Starts funding queue for several years, perhaps for the entire surface transportation reauthorization bill. It is highly unlikely that federal funding for the Westside Subway Extension and the Regional Connector Transit Corridor could be allocated through the federal New Starts process in as little as 3 years, leaving the County without a source of federal funds in the interim.A listing of the most projects approved by the Federal Transit Administration for Full Funding Grant Agreements (FFGAs) shows that light rail transit (LRT) projects range from 1.5 years to 7.8 years while heavy rail projects range from 5.75 years to 6.5 years from the point that FTA approves the project for entry into preliminary engineering (PE) to completion of the New Starts process and receipt of a Full Funding Grant Agreement. This does not account for the time each of these projects spent in alternatives analysis prior to entry into PE.A review of recent projects that received FFGAs indicates the following: Phoenix East Valley LRT– Opened in December 2008 – 7.5 years from entry into PE and signed FFGA Los Angeles Gold Line Eastside Extension – Opening December 2009 - 3.5 years from entry into PE and signed FFGA Denver SE LRT – Opened in November 2006 – 2.75 years from entry into PE to signed FFGA Denver West LRT – Opening May 2013 – 7.8 years from entry into PE to signed FFGA Portland South Corridor LRT – Opened September 2009 – 3.3 years from entry into PE to signed FFGA Dallas NW/SE LRT – Opening June 2011 – 6 years from entry into PE to signed FFGA Salt Lake Mid-Jordan LRT – Opening December 2011 –1.5 years from entry into PE to signed FFGA New York Second Avenue Subway – Opening June 2014 – 6.5 years from entry into PE to signed FFGA Washington Dulles Heavy Rail Extension – Opening December 2014 – 5.75 years from entry into PE to signed FFGAIt seems extremely short- sighted not to include the Gold Line Foothill Extension, Gold Line Eastside Extension and Crenshaw/South Bay Transit Corridor in Metro's New Starts funding priority list. The Gold Line Foothill Extension project, Azusa to Montclair, is developed enough to be ready for Federal New Starts funds in the years before the Westside Subway Extension and the Regional Connector Transit Corridor. The Crenshaw/South Bay Transit Corridor will provide a major connection with Los Angeles International Airport, connecting the Green and Expo Lines and possibly the Wilshire Corridor, serving 12,800 to 15,600 riders. The Eastside Extension will improve mobility in the communities east of Los Angeles, which are expected to experience 30% population growth over the next 20 years.It is not at all unusual for regions to have more than one project in the New Starts program at the same time. In fact, many of the regions listed below with multiple projects in the New Starts program at the same time have smaller populations than the Los Angeles region: New York – Long Island Railroad East Side Access and Second Avenue Subway Denver – Southeast and West Corridors New Jersey – Hudson-Bergen LRT and Access to the Region's Core Commuter Rail Seattle – Central Link and University Link LRT Salt Lake City – Mid-Jordan LRT and Weber County to Salt Lake City Commuter Rail Portland – South County LRT, Eastside Streetcar and Milwaukie LRTLos Angeles County is investing $40 billion over the next 30 years in local transportation projects through Measure R. It is imperative that we have a robust, long-term federal strategy that brings as much federal funding for the County's transportation needs as possible and leverage the significant local dollars on the table. Otherwise, we will continue to lose out on Federal funding to other regions in our State and across the country. We would like to work together as a team as we pursue New Starts funding for Southern California’s priorities on the federal level.
10.15.09	10.15.09 Schiff, Chu Help Secure Funds For New Emergency Operations Center in Monterey Park Thursday, October 15, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Chu Help Secure Funds For New Emergency Operations Center in Monterey ParkWASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act (H.R. 2892), which included funding Representatives Adam Schiff and Judy Chu helped secure to help build a new Public Safety and Emergency Operations Center in Monterey Park. The bill is expected to pass the Senate in the coming days and then will be sent to the President to be signed into law. “In the event of a terrorist attack or a natural disaster, it is imperative that law enforcement and first responders have the resources they need coordinate an efficient and effective response,” said Schiff. “The Monterey Park Emergency Operations Center is vital to helping first responders keep our communities safe.”“The Monterey Park emergency operations center will allow the City to meet the demands of a growing urban community and will enhance the delivery of daily public safety services and allow for a high level of coordinated efforts during times of natural or manmade disasters” said Chu.The bill will provide $375,000 for the construction of a new Public Safety and Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in Monterey Park. The City's current Emergency Operations Center is located in City Hall and has severe space constraints that limit the functionality of the Center. The new EOC will provide the space and equipment necessary to respond to major emergencies. The center will house communication equipment, which will fully interface with Los Angeles County and other municipalities.
10.01.09	10.01.09 Schiff Secures Federal Investment in Energy-Efficiency Initiative in Burbank Thursday, October 01, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Secures Federal Investment in Energy-Efficiency Initiative in Burbank Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed the Energy and Water Appropriations Act, a bill that included funds Rep. Adam Schiff helped secure for a smart grid initiative in Burbank. The City of Burbank will receive $500,000 to help develop an advanced smart grid program that will improve energy efficiency and provide incentives for consumers to reduce energy usage.“Our future is much brighter with the advancement of green technology,” said Schiff. “Innovative energy-efficient solutions will help grow our economy and make our nation energy independent. Southern California is leading the way with initiatives like Burbank’s smart grid.”The smart grid will use state-of-the-art smart meters, a high-speed load control system, and high-capacity Wi-Fi technology. Smart grid technology is a vital first step in readying our energy delivery system for the widespread use of innovative plug-in hybrid vehicles.
10.01.09	10.01.09 Schiff Secures Federal Funds for Arroyo Seco Thursday, October 01, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Secures Federal Funds for Arroyo Seco Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed the Energy and Water Appropriations Act, which included federal funds secured by Rep. Adam Schiff for the Arroyo Seco. The bill allocates $224,000 to allow the Army Corps of Engineers to complete a Watershed Management Plan Feasibility Study. “Restoration and conservation of our scarce open spaces is vitally important to ensuring a good quality of life,” Schiff said. “This funding will help ensure that the Arroyo Seco returns to its natural state - an environmental gem. Once it’s restored, it will provide enjoyable open space and recreation areas for generations to come.” The focus of the study is to address flood and stream management, habitat, water resources, and ecosystem restoration issues within this vital Southern California watershed. This funding will allow the Corps to conduct technical assessments of ecosystem restoration and watershed management programs to identify projects which will improve the management and conditions of the watershed.The Arroyo Seco Watershed Management Plan is a project supported and coordinated by the County of Los Angeles to develop a comprehensive, environmentally friendly approach to manage the Arroyo Seco Watershed. The project is supported by the Arroyo Seco Foundation, North East Trees, the California Coastal Conservancy, the Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority, and the cities in the watershed.
10.01.09	10.01.09 House Passes Schiff, Bilbray Measure to Expand Domestic Fuel-Efficient Car Technology Thursday, October 01, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Passes Schiff, Bilbray Measure to Expand Domestic Fuel-Efficient Car TechnologyWASHINGTON, DC – Today the House passed a measure spearheaded by Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Brian Bilbray (R-CA) that will expand production of domestic fuel-efficient vehicles. The amendment included in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act (H.R. 3183) expands the type of cars that would be eligible for the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program so that new companies and designs can compete on an even playing field with more traditional automakers. The bill is expected to pass the Senate in the coming days and then be sent to the President to be signed into law. “We need to think outside the box when developing new fuel-efficient vehicles, and that is exactly what some new car designers and manufactures are doing,” said Schiff. “Obsolete bureaucratic definitions should not create roadblocks and stifle innovation. This legislation clears the way for domestic manufactures to develop new innovative fuel-efficient cars here at home.” "This is a huge win for scientific innovation and the environment," said Congressman Bilbray. "I've always said that we need more innovation and less regulation when it comes to promoting new ways to save energy, and passing this legislation shows that there truly is a bi-partisan, pro-environment and pro-innovation movement in Congress." Innovative companies around the country, including Aptera based in Carlsbad and incubated at Pasadena's Idealab, are ready to produce highly efficient three-wheeled vehicles. However, advanced car designs that only have three wheels are not eligible for the DOE program, because of an antiquated definition used by the program to define cars that are eligible. Rep. Schiff’s amendment modifies the program to include new innovative vehicles that maximize aerodynamics. The amendment makes fully-enclosed vehicles that are capable of carrying two adults and get at least 75 miles per gallon eligible for the DOE’s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentives Program. The program provides loans to car manufacturers for up to 30 percent of the cost of reequipping, expanding or establishing manufacturing facilities in the U.S. for advanced technology vehicles or components, or for engineering integration performed in the U.S.
09.30.09	09.30.09 Schiff, Bono Mack Praise Passage of Arson Registry Bill Wednesday, September 30, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Bono Mack Praise Passage of Arson Registry Bill Legislation gives law enforcement valuable tool to prevent and convict arsonists Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff (CA-29) and Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) today praised House passage of their legislation to help law enforcement and fire officials track convicted arsonists and prevent unnecessary disasters caused by arson. The Managing Arson Through Criminal History (MATCH) Act, H.R. 1727, which Bono Mack reintroduced this year with Schiff, would establish a nationwide registry of convicted arsonists for law enforcement to better prevent repeat offenders.“The Station Fire is a prime example of the devastation and destruction that arson can cause,” said Schiff. “Having worked on arson cases as a federal prosecutor, I know firsthand the potential a Megan’s Law-type registry holds to help law enforcement catch arsonists and prevent additional fires.” “Our law enforcement and fire officials deserve this valuable tool to better prevent criminal acts of arson,” said Bono Mack. “In California, we know all too well the incalculable damage that can be caused by wildfire, and it’s always exponentially more devastating to learn that such disaster was caused at the hand of an arsonist. Too many brave lives have been lost because of arson – it is time we pass this legislation so that law enforcement officers can stop arsonists in their tracks and prevent unnecessary catastrophe.” Arson has caused some of the most devastating fires in California. In 2006, five firefighters lost their lives battling the Esperanza Fire in Southern California, which was caused by arson. This fire affected countless lives and property and destroyed hundreds of square miles of National Forest. This August, the Station Fire, which investigators believe to be caused by arson, burned over 160,000 acres in Los Angeles County and the Angeles National Forest, taking the lives of two brave firefighters. Statistics compiled by the California Department of Corrections show that within two years of parole, nearly 55% of criminal arsonists will return to prison. The MATCH Act creates a national arson registry, available to law enforcement and fire investigators to help them track criminal arsonists, regardless where they live or work. By creating a nation-wide database, the MATCH Act will enable law enforcement to share critical information across state lines and jurisdictions. The information gathered will be utilized in conjunction with existing Federal efforts, including the US Fire Administration at the Department of Homeland Security and the National Fire Incident Reporting System.
09.30.09	09.30.09 Schiff Bill to Increase Efficiency in Processing Foreign Evidence Requests for International Criminal Investigations Passes House Wednesday, September 30, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Bill to Increase Efficiency in Processing Foreign Evidence Requests for International Criminal Investigations Passes House Washington, D.C. – Today the House passed bipartisan legislation sponsored by Congressman Adam Schiff that will make it easier for U.S. Attorneys to process requests for evidence made by foreign authorities pursuing international criminal investigations. The Foreign Evidence Request Efficiency Act will allow U.S. Attorneys to more easily respond to requests for evidence and focus more of their time and resources on prosecutions. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) authored the Senate companion bill, which recently passed the Senate. The Department of Justice has endorsed the bill, and it will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “The current process is inefficient and burdensome for federal prosecutors across the country, and adds unnecessary hurdles to the efforts to catch criminals,” said Schiff. The important changes in this bill will greatly improve crime fighting abilities at home and abroad.” It is commonplace for the United State and other nations to assist each other by sharing information and evidence in international criminal investigations. This type of cooperation is vital for law enforcement as they work to build cases against international organized crime organizations, intellectual property violators, identity theft, drug cartels, purveyors of child pornography on the internet, and other criminal threats from outside our borders.Under existing law, international requests for evidence are processed under rules that require prosecutors to file in every district in which evidence or a witness may be found. For example, evidence sought for one criminal matter may involve financial records housed in banks in several different federal judicial districts, Internet records in more than one judicial district, and other evidence spread over several districts. Oftentimes, under current law over a dozen different U.S. Attorneys offices and several district courts can be required to work on an evidence request for a single case. The Foreign Evidence Request Efficiency Act would end this problem by creating a clear framework for handling foreign evidence requests. It does so without changing the types of evidence that foreign governments may receive from the United States or reducing the role of courts as gatekeepers for searches. The Foreign Evidence Request Efficiency Act would leave those important protections in place, while simultaneously streamlining the existing bureaucratic process imposed on U.S. Attorneys.
09.30.09	09.30.09 Supporting the Managing Arson Through Criminal History Act Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Managing Arson Through Criminal History Act, the MATCH Act, and am very proud to join Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack in sponsoring this important legislation and who has led the charge on this for several years now. I want to congratulate you on your perseverance. This, I think, will be a very important and powerful tool in bringing arsonists to justice.Our collaboration on this issue stems from a painful understanding of the devastation that arson can cause and has caused in both of our districts. In fact, as we debate this bill today, firefighters are still mopping up the last vestiges of the Station fire which has burned thousands and thousands of acres in the Angeles Forest in the past month and resulted in the tragic death of two firefighters. The fire was deliberately set, and the perpetrator is still at large. The bill before us today would create a nationwide registry of arsonists to help fire investigators find arsonists and prevent additional fires.Because arsonists commit their crimes in secret, arson is among the most difficult of crimes to investigate. According to FBI statistics, only about 18 percent of arsons from 2008 have been ``cleared'' by an arrest. In the wake of a fire, investigators are faced with the daunting challenge of piecing together evidence from a scorched tract of land or a house. The Station fire, for example, is a 250-square-mile crime scene. Investigators have isolated where they believe the blaze originated, but there have been no arrests thus far, despite the offer of a $150,000 reward.I know from firsthand experience the difficulty of an arson investigation. When I was an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles in the late 1980s and early 1990s, I prosecuted an individual who started fires in the San Bernardino Forest. The arsonist followed a pattern. He used a distinct incendiary device made from a cigarette with matches taped around it. He would drive through the forest and throw the cigarette with the matches taped around it into the brush. The cigarette would burn down to the matches, ignite the matches, which would ignite the brush. The cigarette was basically like a slow fuse. By the time the brush caught on fire, he was far away from the point of origin of the fire.Catching someone like that who doesn't have a traditional motive to set a fire or commit a crime is extremely challenging. Eventually, using video surveillance, law enforcement made an arrest.We discovered in the course of the investigation that the suspect had a history of setting fires using the same distinct incendiary device made from a cigarette with matches taped around it. We didn't discover that information in an electronic database or even in the suspect's criminal record. The information was eventually found before the trial, stored in a box in his former parole officer's basement.If we had a national arsonist registry at the time, we would have known of convicted arsonists who lived in the region. We would have known of their modus operandi. We might have been able to stop him before he set several of the later fires. Keeping records in your basement is not a sound investigative law enforcement strategy. The national arsonist registry created by the MATCH Act is.The MATCH Act would create a national registry of arsonists that is similar but more extensive than what three States have right now. Currently, three States, including California, maintain such registries, but they are very limited. Arsonists can and do cross State lines to start fires. They don't necessarily contain updated information about the arsonist's current address, their place of employment, where they go to school and a myriad of other pieces of information that could be useful to investigators.Under the MATCH Act, a convicted arsonist would be required to registerwith the State in which they reside and provide updated biographical information, along with a photograph and information on the cars that they own. No information in this registry would be publicly available. The information would only be accessible to law enforcement and fire investigators.Last year, the Congressional Budget Office scored the cost of implementing the act at $17 million over 5 years, that is, if we fully fund a small authorization to offset the costs to States in setting up the program. Given the millions and millions we spend fighting wildfires and the billions, literally billions, in property damage due to arson, this is a reasonable investment to save lives in the future.The House passed this legislation overwhelmingly in 2007, but unfortunately it was never enacted. It didn't clear the Senate. As my constituents can attest, though, the problem of arson is not going away. And so we press on for this bill that will assist investigators and, we hope, prevent arson fires in the future.I urge my colleagues to support the bill and reserve the balance of my time.
09.24.09	09.24.09 Schiff Lauds United Nations Security Council's Adoption of Resolution to Close a Dangerous Nuclear Loophole Thursday, September 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Lauds United Nations Security Council’s Adoption of Resolution to Close a Dangerous Nuclear Loophole Resolution increases deterrents for withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation TreatyWashington, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) hailed the United Nations (U.N.) Security Council’s unanimous passage of a resolution to deter nations from withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (NPT) and ensure nuclear materials remain secure. The United States-drafted resolution represents an important step forward in addressing the spread of nuclear weapons. In 2007, Congressman Schiff introduced bipartisan legislation in the House of Representative that called on the President to introduce a U.N. Resolution similar to the one adopted today. Congressman Schiff’s 2007 resolution (H. Con. Res. 228) encouraged the President to pursue a U.N. Security Council resolution that declares that withdrawal from the NPT requires the return of any internationally-obtained nuclear materials or technology. It also sought to prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the Treaty. “The NPT had become the shortest path to a nuclear weapon for unstable countries due to a dangerous loophole in the Treaty,” said Schiff. “Countries could obtain nuclear assistance while being signatories to the NPT, and later violate and withdraw from the Treaty retaining their ill-gotten nuclear gains.” Today’s special session was only the fifth time that the Security Council has met at the head-of-state summit level since the United Nations was founded, and President Obama was the first American President to preside over such a session. In a demonstration of the importance of the issue, the leaders of many of the world’s most powerful countries attended the special session to voice their support for the measure. Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, and President Hu Jintao of China all attended the Security Council meeting. The NPT has played an important role in reducing the number of nuclear nations. In the four decades since it was signed, only five additional nations have developed nuclear weapons and only four of those possess them now, far fewer than experts predicted at the time. However, the treaty has been under increasing strain due to rogue states that use the nuclear energy cooperation that the NPT promises to non-nuclear-weapon states as a stepping-stone to nuclear weapons.By attaching a clear penalty, nations would be discouraged from using the NPT to obtain nuclear technology and simply “opting out” at the last moment. A few years ago, North Korea demonstrated that it was possible to use the NPT to obtain dual-use nuclear energy technology that allowed it to proceed most of the way down the path to nuclear weapons, before leaving the treaty and developing weapons in short order. Iran appears to be following the same route, enriching uranium that is nominally for use in nuclear reactors, but could easily be fed into a nuclear weapons program.
09.22.09	09.22.09 Schiff Calls on Appeals Court to Rehear Case Regarding Insurance Claims of Armenian Genocide Victims Tuesday, September 22, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Calls on Appeals Court to Rehear Case Regarding Insurance Claims of Armenian Genocide VictimsWashington D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff, a Congressional Leader on Armenian issues and co-author of the California State law allowing family members of Armenian Genocide victims to request payment on the life-insurance policies of relatives, late yesterday filed an amicus brief with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in support of a petition for a rehearing before the entire Ninth Circuit Court. In late August, a three judge panel of the Ninth Circuit struck down the California state law which allowed the insurance claims, claiming the state law was pre-empted by federal policy. In the brief, Rep. Schiff argues that the federal government has never discouraged states from recognizing the Armenian Genocide or acted to pre-empt state efforts to allow insurance claims to go forward. Schiff also pointed out that the state law contains a "severability" clause, meaning any reference held to be invalid can be severed from the rest of the law. “It would be a tragically unjust result – not to mention one unsupported by law -- for this court to deny relief to the victims of these atrocities because of the use of an historically accepted term that, however proper, could be severed from the statute by its own terms,” said Schiff. “Nothing in law or equity compels such an injurious result.” In the brief, Rep. Schiff points out that neither Congress nor the Executive Branch has ever taken a position or acted to preempt state efforts to resolve insurance claims of Armenian Genocide victims and their heirs. Additionally, Rep. Schiff demonstrates that neither of these branches of government has ever acted to preempt or discourage states’ recognition of the Armenian Genocide.The U.S. government has consistently recognized that 1.5 million Armenians lost their lives at the hands of the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1923, and the federal government has always supported efforts by those who are the subject of horrific violence to obtain compensation for their injury – particularly when they have a valid contractual right to recover.
09.18.09	09.18.09 Congressman Schiff Honors John and Kathy Prosser of Glendale as Angels in Adoption Friday, September 18, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Congressman Schiff Honors John and Kathy Prosser of Glendale as Angels in AdoptionJohn and Kathy to be recognized at national event in Washington, DCWashington D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff has selected John and Kathy Prosser as 2009 Angels in Adoption for their outstanding dedication as adoptive and fostercare parents. The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI), which organizes the Angels in Adoption program, will honor the Prossers, along with more than 190 Angels, at an awards ceremony and gala event in Washington, DC on September 30th. “John and Kathy’s tireless dedication has enriched the lives of so many children in our community,” said Schiff. “They are tremendous advocates for foster care children and exemplify what it means to be Angels in Adoption.” John and Kathy Prosser’s contributions to the adoption and foster care field began more than two decades ago when John and Kathy began serving as foster parents in Los Angeles County. As the birth parents to two daughters, Mindy and Katie, the Prossers have welcomed 34 foster children into their home and adopted their daughter, Shelley, when she was 4 years old. When Shelley died unexpectedly as a young adult, the Prossers subsequently adopted her son Jacob, when he was three years old. They continue to be kept quite busy with Jacob and their four other grandchildren. The Prosser’s influence in the adoption and foster care field has extended outside of their home. Having served as the Board President for Child S.H.A.R.E. (Support, Hope, Advocay, Resources & Encouragement), a nonprofit agency working to find homes for abused and abandoned children, and most recently Board Vice President, John has been actively engaged as a community partner for more than two decades. Additionally, Kathy has actively spoken to various community groups and churches on foster care issues. The Prossers have influenced the lives of countless individuals and continue to do so through their personal example and dedication to the adoption and foster care field.The Angels in Adoption program is CCAI’s signature public awareness campaign and provides an opportunity for all members of the U.S. Congress to honor the good work of their constituents who have enriched the lives of foster children and orphans in the United States and abroad. “The Angels in Adoption program is unlike any other program in the Nation’s Capitol. Because of it, over 1400 Angels have come to share with Washington their adoption experience and left with a renewed excitement of all that adoption makes possible,” said Kathleen Strottman. “I learned one simple lesson from my time on the Hill, knowledge is power. Angels in Adoption is meant to give Members of Congress the knowledge they need to use the power they have toward making the dream of a family a reality for every child.” In addition to the more than 190 local angels from around the country, several National Angels will also be recognized at the ceremony and gala for their dedication and commitment nationally and internationally to child welfare on a grand scale. Former “National Angels” include First Lady Laura Bush, Patti LaBelle, Jane Seymour, Muhammad Ali, the late Dave Thomas, Steven Curtis Chapman, Bruce Willis, Alonzo Mourning, and Marcus Samuelsson.The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute (CCAI) is a nonpartisan organization dedicated to raising awareness about the tens of thousands of orphans and foster children in the United States, and the millions of orphans around the world in need of permanent, safe, and loving homes through adoption. CCAI’s goal is to eliminate the barriers that hinder these children from realizing their basic right of a family. CCAI was created in 2001 by the active co-chairs of the bicameral, bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Adoption (CCA) to more effectively raise Congressional and public awareness about the issue of adoption. The Angels in Adoption program was established in 1999 as a Congressional press conference to honor outstanding individuals. Since then, the program has developed into a yearlong public awareness campaign culminating in an extraordinary awards Gala and celebration in Washington, D.C. CCAI does not receive any government funding and they rely on the generous support of foundations, corporations, and individuals to accomplish their mission. For more information visit http://www.ccainstitute.org/.
09.15.09	09.15.09 Schiff Writes to U.S. Small Business Administrator to Request Disaster Assistance for Station Fire Victims Tuesday, September 15, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Writes to U.S. Small Business Administrator to Request Disaster Assistance for Station Fire VictimsWashington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff and nine Congressional colleagues wrote to the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Administrator Karen Mills in support of California’s request for a disaster declaration from the SBA, in the aftermath of the Station Fire. The SBA disaster assistance provides low interest federal loans to victims of disasters to help replace and rebuild damaged property not fully covered by insurance. “The SBA’s disaster assistance loans are one of the most effective ways to help get wildfire victims back on their feet,” said Schiff. “I saw firsthand the catastrophic damaged caused by the Station Fire and there is no doubt that the SBA’s disaster assistance is necessary and would go a long way in helping Southern California recover.” On August 26, a fire broke out in the Angeles National Forest, north of La Cañada Flintridge, and was subsequently named the Station Fire. The incident has ravaged over 160,000 acres of land and has thus far destroyed 89 residences and 26 commercial properties. On September 10, the California Emergency Management Agency (Cal EMA) along with the SBA, completed a survey to determine the extent of the fire damage. The study revealed that the local wildfires met the minimum criteria for a SBA disaster declaration and Governor Schwarzenegger has sent a request to the SBA Office of Disaster Assistance.SBA loans are available to homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and private, non-profit organizations. These loans can be used to replace or repair damaged property owned by victims including real estate, personal property, automobiles, inventories, supplies, and equipment. Below is the full text of the letter sent to the SBA Administrator.September 15, 2009Ms. Karen G. MillsAdministratorU.S. Small Business Administration409 Third Street, Suite 700Washington, DC 20416-0011Dear Administrator Mills:We write to you as members of the House of Representatives’ California delegation in support of the State of California’s request for a disaster declaration from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), as a result of the recent wildfires in Los Angeles County. On August 26, a fire broke out in the Angeles National Forest, north of La Cañada Flintridge, and was subsequently named the Station Fire. The incident has ravaged over 160,000 acres of land and has thus far destroyed 89 residences and 26 commercial properties. Sadly, the disaster has also claimed the lives of two of our bravest firefighters, who perished in the line of duty. Firefighters have done a tremendous job of protecting lives, property and the environment. Officials estimate that they will have full containment of the incident by September 19, 2009.On September 10, the California Emergency Management Agency (Cal EMA), along with the SBA, completed a survey to determine the extent of the fire damage. The study revealed that the local wildfires met the minimum criteria for an SBA disaster declaration and Governor Schwarzenegger sent a request to the SBA Office of Disaster Assistance. We ask that full and speedy consideration be extended to this request; so that we are able to do all we can to assist the residents in the recovery process.We appreciate your support as we go through this difficult process.Sincerely,
09.09.09	09.09.09 Schiff, Dreier Resolution Paying Tribute to Fallen Firefighters Passes House Wednesday, September 09, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Dreier Resolution Paying Tribute to Fallen Firefighters Passes House Resolution Honors the lives of Captain Tedmund “Ted” Hall and Specialist Arnaldo “Arnie” Quinones who died while bravely fighting the Station FireWashington D.C. – Today, Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and David Dreier (R-CA) paid tribute to Captain Tedmund “Ted” Hall and Firefighter Specialist Arnaldo “Arnie” Quinones who died on August 30th, while battling the Station Fire. Reps. Schiff and Dreier introduced a resolution honoring their lives and highlighting the contributions of the thousands of other personnel who have helped fight this massive wildfire. The resolution passed with overwhelming bipartisan support.“Firefighting is a selfless profession, and Captain Hall and Specialist Quinones gave their lives while protecting many thousands of families and their homes,” said Schiff. “My thoughts are with the families of these brave men -- we owe them a debt of gratitude we can never repay.” “The Station Fire, which claimed both homes and lives, was a genuine tragedy,” Dreier said. “The sacrifice of the families of Captain Hall and Specialist Quinones is greater than any of us can imagine. The U.S. House stands with them today in honoring these two extraordinary men. We also pay tribute to the firefighters who have taken on this fire and helped saved thousands of homes and lives. Southern California is fortunate to have such an outstanding group of men and women combating these fires.”Captain Hall, of San Bernardino County, was a twenty-six year veteran of the fire service, and is survived by his wife, two sons and his parents. Specialist Arnaldo Quinones, of Palmdale, was an eleven-year veteran of the fire service. The soon-to-be father is survived by his wife and his mother. The Station Fire began on August 26th and has burned more than 160,000 acres of public lands and private property in Los Angeles County and the Angeles National Forest. It has destroyed more than 200 structures and homes, and it continues to threaten over 7,000 more in communities like Altadena, La Canada Flintridge, Acton, Glendale, La Crescenta, Pasadena, Sierra Madre, Littlerock, Sunland and Tujunga.
09.09.09	09.09.09 Schiff, Bono Mack Call for Swift Passage of Arson Registry Bill Wednesday, September 09, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Bono Mack Call for Swift Passage of Arson Registry BillHighlight recent arson that caused the death of two firefighters and massive devastationWashington, D.C. – Calling attention to the tragic fire caused by arson that resulted in the death of two firefighters, Congressman Adam Schiff (CA-29) and Congresswoman Mary Bono Mack (CA-45) today urged Congressional leadership to act swiftly in passing their legislation to help law enforcement and fire officials track convicted arsonists and prevent unnecessary disaster caused by arson. The Managing Arson Through Criminal History (MATCH) Act, H.R. 1759, which Bono Mack reintroduced this year with Schiff, would establish a nationwide registry of convicted arsonists for law enforcement to better prevent repeat offenders.“Last week, I saw firsthand the terrible danger and catastrophic damage the Station Fire caused to homes in and around the Angeles forest,” Schiff said. “There is no doubt in my mind that the MATCH Act would be a very useful tool, much like Megan’s Law, to both identify the perpetrators of arson and also to deter them. The Station fire is only the most recent and most devastating example of the need to take stronger action to combat arson.” “We should not delay in giving law enforcement and fire officials this valuable tool to better prevent criminal acts of arson,” said Bono Mack. “I was deeply saddened to learn that the LA fire, which caused such heart-wrenching tragedy and destruction, was the result of arson. We as Californians understand the incalculable damages that can be caused by wildfire, which makes it all the more essential that we do everything possible to prevent unnecessary and senseless disaster at the hand of an arsonist. It is my hope that Congress will act quickly to pass this legislation so that repeat offenders are stopped in their tracks and our communities are better protected from those individuals bent on destruction.”In their letter to House leadership, Bono Mack and Schiff emphasized that arson has caused some of the most devastating fires in California. In 2006, five firefighters lost their lives battling the Esperanza Fire in Southern California, which was caused by arson. This fire affected countless lives and property and destroyed hundreds of square miles of National Forest. This August, the Station Fire, which investigators believe to be caused by arson, has scorched 160,000 acres in Los Angeles County and the Angeles National Forest, taking the lives of two brave firefighters. Click here to view a PDF of Bono Mack and Schiff’s letter to Congressional leadership urging for the passage of the MATCH Act. The following is the text of the letter: September 9, 2009The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Speaker United States House of Representatives Office H-232, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable John H. Boehner,Minority LeaderUnited States House of Representatives Office H-204Washington, D.C. 20515The Honorable John Conyers, Jr., Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary 2138 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Lamar S. Smith,Ranking MemberHouse Committee on the Judiciary2138 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20515Re: H.R. 1727, the Managing Arson Through Criminal History (MATCH) Act of 2009Dear Speaker Pelosi:As Members of Congress from the State of California, we understand the destruction and devastation fire can cause. Sometimes these fires occur naturally, however too often they do not. We write to you today to respectfully request that the MATCH Act, which provides another tool to fight arson, be brought up under the suspension calendar as soon as possible.Arson has been the cause of some of the most devastating fires in California. In 2006, five firefighters lost their lives battling the Esperanza Fire in Southern California. That fire affected countless lives, property and destroyed hundreds of square miles of National Forest. It was also caused by a cowardly act of arson. Today, arsonists continue to wreak havoc. This August, the Station Fire has scorched 160,000 acres in Los Angeles County and the Angeles National Forest and taken the lives of two brave firefighters. Investigators believe this fire was also ignited by an arsonist. In the 110th Congress, we introduced H.R. 1759, the Managing Arson Through Criminal History Act of 2007 ("MATCH Act"). This bipartisan bill was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. Hearings were held and the bill was reported favorably in November of 2007 by voice vote. One month later H.R. 1759 passed the House of Representatives on the suspension calendar by voice vote. Unfortunately, the MATCH Act stalled in the Senate.This Congress we re-introduced the MATCH Act as H.R. 1727 and it was again referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. As California and other states continue to deal with the devastation caused by arson, we believe that the time to act on this bill is now. Once again, we respectfully request that you bring this important bipartisan legislation to the floor as soon as possible so that we can provide investigators with a vital new tool in the battle against repeat arsonists. Respectfully,
07.24.09	07.24.09 Schiff Helps Secure Funds to Expand Health Care for Low-Income Families Friday, July 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Helps Secure Funds to Expand Health Care for Low-Income Families WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 3293), which included funding Rep. Schiff helped secure for two non-profit health care service providers in the 29th Congressional District. The funding will help provide critical health care services to local residents. “During tough economic times like these, many parents struggle to afford health care for their kids and for themselves,” said Schiff. “These funds will help provide a small patch to help those in need, while we in Congress work to overhaul our health care system to ensure all citizens receive the care they need.” The Community Health Alliance of Pasadena (CHAP) will receive $100,000 for its Education & Counseling Center. The funds will be used to renovate space at the Center and provide an alternative to hospital emergency room usage by families who lack the financial means to pay for health services. The center provides individual counseling, group support and education to low income families. There are more than 200,000 residents in CHAP's primary service area which covers Pasadena, Altadena and Sierra Madre. It is estimated that about one-in-four residents lack health insurance, with many living below the poverty level. “Federal support for the CHAP Education and Counseling Center will positively impact the overall health of our community’s low-income, uninsured and unemployed residents, said Margaret B. Martinez, CEO of CHAP. “The integration of behavioral health services with primary medical care will help our chronically ill patients better manage their conditions.” The bill also includes $100,000 for Young and Healthy to help fund mental health care for uninsured children. The funds will help provide comprehensive direct mental health services to low-income school children throughout Pasadena and its surrounding communities. The money will also provide school-based counseling and support groups, on-site counseling, in-service training for teachers, parent education, and consultation with teachers and school principals. “We see a growing need for access to health care services among children and families in this economy. As people lose their jobs, they often find themselves without health insurance. This funding is coming at the right time to help needy families and children,” said Mary Donnelly-Crocker, Executive Director, Young and Healthy.
07.23.09	07.23.09 Schiff Helps Secure Funds for Local Infrastructure Projects Thursday, July 23, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Helps Secure Funds for Local Infrastructure Projects Funding will help create local jobsWASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed the Department of Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 3288), which included funding Rep. Schiff helped secure for three local construction projects in the 29th Congressional District. The three programs will help the region’s economy, relieve congestion, add to the quality of life of local residents, and improve safety. “This bill will help create jobs through infrastructure spending and will improve the quality of life in our region,” said Schiff. “We need to get our economy moving again and projects like these will not only improve our region’s infrastructure, but will also produce local construction jobs.” The bill included $500,000 for the Alameda Corridor-East in San Gabriel, which will help construct a 2-mile railroad trench for trains to travel underneath roadway bridges in the City of San Gabriel. The current railway has accounted for three crossing collisions, with one motorist killed in 2002. Pedestrian safety will also be improved for students at nearby schools. “Alameda Corridor-East (ACE) Construction Authority is extremely pleased at the assistance Congressman Schiff has given us over the years,” said Rick Richmond, Executive Director ACE Construction Authority. “We hope that with his support we will be able to begin some early construction before the end of the year which will work to create jobs and improve safety in our community and we thank him for his continued aid.”The overall project will eliminate an estimated 420 hours of vehicle delay each day at four crossings, the busiest of which, San Gabriel Blvd., carries 37,500 vehicles per day. It will help improve air quality by cutting hundreds of tons per year of cancer-causing air toxins and greenhouse emissions by eliminating idling cars and trucks at the crossings. The broader project will create 8,964 jobs and it also received federal funds in the recovery package. The Alameda Corridor-East Construction Authority has already secured commitments of approximately 70% of the project’s cost in non-Federal funds. The bill also included $400,000 for a renovation and addition project at the Altadena Library. The Main Altadena Library is 41 years old and in desperate need of repair, renovation, and expansion to provide modern library services. It is overcrowded and shows the effects of past earthquakes with cracks in the ceilings, concrete slabs, and windows. It lacks energy efficiency, has antiquated lighting, has encapsulated asbestos throughout which needs removal, and is non-ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act) compliant. In addition, old bookstacks do not meet seismic codes and cannot be retrofitted because of age and welding. This funding will be used for design and engineering studies as well as construction. This funding will improve the quality of life for the entire community and will assist the library in continuing providing much needed public services in a safe environment.“This is a wonderful opportunity for the Altadena Library which, as an independent library district, is traditionally wholly dependent on property tax revenue for its funding,” said Dale E. LaCasella, President, Board of Trustees. “It will be a substantial step toward realizing our goal of making the library fully accessible to all residents.” Lastly, Monterey Park will receive $250,000 to widen the on and off ramps of the 60 freeway (SR-60) at Paramount Boulevard to allow for increased vehicular capacity. The project is vital to relieving traffic congestion along this freeway corridor and providing access to the newly redeveloped Market Place Shopping Center which will improve the local economy in this underdeveloped area of the city. Paramount Boulevard also provides access to the south side of the City of Monterey Park and the northern portion of the City of Montebello, and as these cities grow, congestion is increasing proportionately. “I am grateful for the initiative and hard work by Congressman Adam Schiff in securing the needed funds for the widening of the Paramount Boulevard off-ramp along the 60 freeway which will be the gateway to our new Monterey Park Market Place Shopping Center,” said Monterey Park Mayor Mitchell Ing. “This project will generate approximately 90 new construction and engineering jobs in our City. It is good news for the San Gabriel Valley region especially during this slow economic climate.”
07.23.09	07.23.09 Schiff, Berman Call for FAA to Approve Mandatory Nighttime Curfews at Bob Hope and Other Local Airports in Southern California Thursday, July 23, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Berman Call for FAA to Approve Mandatory Nighttime Curfews at Bob Hope and Other Local Airports in Southern California WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressmen Howard Berman (D-CA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) called for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to approve mandatory nighttime curfews at Bob Hope and other local Southern California airports. Yesterday, the two Valley Congressmen wrote a letter to the FAA in support of implementing nighttime curfews to provide noise relief to the communities surrounding local airports. The Bob Hope Airport is the first in the country to demonstrate adequately that it meets all the requirements for a curfew to be approved. Today on the House Floor, Reps. Schiff and Berman expressed their concerns with the fairness of the FAA’s curfew application process with the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, Rep. John Olver. Olver’s subcommittee funds the FAA.“I strongly believe that Bob Hope Airport in Burbank California has met the criteria for a curfew set by law,” Rep. Schiff stated today on the House Floor. “A curfew would impact a relatively small number of diverted flights while delivering significant reductions in both the noise impact to surrounding communities and costs associated with sound mitigation.” Rep. Berman noted that “Both Bob Hope Airport and Van Nuys Airport have been actively studying nighttime flight curfews on Stage III aircraft. In fact, the Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena Airport Authority has already submitted its completed Part 161 application to the FAA requesting a nighttime curfew…but the FAA has been all too willing to simply disregard the impact that nighttime flight operations have on nearby communities. I look forward to working to ensure that the FAA gives fair consideration to the concerns of those who must live with airport noise day and night.”Below is the full text of the letter sent to the FAA. Victoria CatlettFAA APP 400FAA, 800 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20591Attn: Docket No. FAA-2009-0546Dear Ms. Catlett:We are writing this letter to convey our support for the proposed mandatory nighttime curfew at the Bob Hope Airport located in Southern California. The proposed curfew, which will be the subject of FAA review under the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), as implemented by FAR Part 161, would provide meaningful nighttime noise relief to the communities surrounding the Bob Hope Airport in a cost-efficient manner while continuing to enable the Airport to serve the millions of annual passengers who use the facility each year. The unique standing of the Bob Hope Airport proposed curfew is significant: no other airport has ever succeeded in getting this far through the process and having the FAA deem their application complete. We believe that the proposed mandatory curfew meets the requirements set forth by the requirements of FAR Part 161. The Airport has demonstrated that the suggested curfew will ultimately cost less than increased acoustical treatment of homes that will be affected by airport noise in the future and it has also met the other five statutory tests. Congress intended for ANCA to permit airports, such as Bob Hope, to pursue and obtain FAA approval for access restrictions when the airport successfully demonstrates compliance with FAR Part 161. In particular, we note that the proposed curfew would impact a relatively small number of diverted flights (mostly cargo and general aviation) while delivering significant reductions in both the projected noise impact contour at the Airport and costs associated with sound mitigation. Similar, albeit not identical, nighttime restrictions already exist at a number of Southern California airports, including John Wayne, Long Beach, Santa Monica and Van Nuys and that the national aviation system can clearly handle the relatively small number of impacted operations of an additional nighttime restriction in Southern California. We also support the ongoing efforts by Los Angeles World Airports to enact various noise restrictions, including a mandatory curfew for the limited number of general aviation flights at nearby Van Nuys Airport that cause significant disturbances at night. Ideally, both curfews should be implemented in order to achieve a measurable goal of eliminating noise for those who live between Bob Hope Airport and Van Nuys Airport in the San Fernando Valley – a region of over 1.8 million residents. A majority of flights impacted by the curfew could be redirected to other airports with significant nighttime operations and comparable facilitiesWe would also like to propose that the FAA consider issuing a tentative decision in advance of November 1, 2009, with a public comment period, rather than summarily issuing a final decision on or before November 1. This will enable all parties to reach consensus on Part 161 and show that the application was considered objectively, thoroughly and was fair. It will show that Part 161 has meaning and credibility; it makes be clear to all that the process is real and can lead to results.In closing, we join with the Cities of Burbank, Glendale and Pasadena, and their residents, and those living throughout the San Fernando Valley in urging the Federal Aviation Administration to fulfill its obligations under ANCA and seriously consider, pursuant to FAR Part 161, the full mandatory curfew proposed for the Bob Hope Airport. Sincerely, ADAM B. SHIFFMember of Congress HOWARD L BERMAN Member of Congress
07.20.09	07.20.09 New Report Highlights Significant Contributions to the U.S. Economy by the Copyright Industries Monday, July 20, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 New Report Highlights Significant Contributions to the U.S. Economy by the Copyright Industries Report underscores need for strong international intellectual property protectionsWashington, D.C.: The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), commended a new report released today by the International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) that underscores the critical role that copyright industries play in supporting the U.S. economy. The report concluded that the copyright industries, which include music producers, authors, filmmakers, software manufactures and other creative works, is one of the strongest sectors of the American economy. The copyright industries contribute to economic growth in the U.S., account for a substantial part of the gross domestic product, employ millions of Americans, and have a trade surplus. However, according to industry estimates, global piracy of U.S. copyrighted works costs our economy around $58 billion each year, with 373,375 lost American jobs, $16.3 billion in lost earnings, and $2.6 billion in lost tax revenue to the government. "In tough economic times it's more important than ever to safeguard intellectual property," said Senator Whitehouse. "American copyright industries create millions of jobs, and generate millions of dollars in tax revenue. Piracy threatens those jobs and those revenues, and we need bipartisan solutions to stop it."“Today’s report underscores how vitally important the copyright industry is to our nation’s economy,” said Senator Hatch. “Now more than ever, it is imperative that we protect new ideas and investments in innovation and creativity to keep our copyright industries globally competitive. America’s ingenuity is the cornerstone to a vibrant, thriving economy.”“The copyright industries are one of the few bright spots in our struggling economy,” said Rep. Schiff. “As a Representative of so many of these industries and their employees, I know firsthand the importance they play in providing quality jobs for Americans. This report demonstrates that the copyright industries and the intellectual property they produce are essential to the future of the American economy.”“With strong U.S. laws to protect intellectual property, it is no surprise that the U.S. copyright industries continue to be an extremely successful piece of the U.S. economy,” said Rep. Goodlatte. “However, this sector is not indestructible, and we must continue to push hard for other countries to enact strong IP protections and to combat copyright piracy.”The report issued today underscores the need to crack down on international piracy of U.S. movies, music, and other copyrighted works, in order to ensure the protection of this important and valuable sector of the U.S. economy. This new report, Copyright Industries in the U.S. Economy: The 2003-2007 Report, completed by Economists Incorporated, was release today at a press conference with the Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke at the Department of Commerce. The report demonstrates the continuing positive impact these industries have on the U.S. economy in terms of contribution to economic growth, high-paying jobs and international trade. The report can be accessed on the IIPA’s web site www.iipa.com. In an effort to combat international copyright piracy the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus releases a watch list each year calling attention to countries where piracy has reached alarming levels. Earlier this year, the Caucus announced they will closely monitor the serious problems of copyright piracy in China, Russia, Canada, Spain, and Mexico.The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which was originally formed in 2003, is made up of over 70 members of Congress. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
07.17.09	07.17.09 Schiff Helps Secure Funds for Local Small Business Assistance and Job Training Programs Friday, July 17, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Helps Secure Funds for Local Small Business Assistance and Job Training Programs WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday, the House passed the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, which included funding Rep. Schiff helped secure for three local small business assistance and job training programs in Pasadena. The three programs will help the region’s economy by providing local small businesses with the tools they need to ensure profitability, and by providing low-income residents with job placement training. “This funding will help give local businesses and job seekers the tools they need to succeed and thrive,” said Schiff. “Small businesses are the engines of local economies, providing employment to local workers and valuable services to our community. Assisting small businesses and job seekers in these tough economic times is a common sense solution that will help turn our local economy around.”The Foothill Workforce Investment Board in Pasadena will receive $150,000 for its small business assistance program. This funding will be used to analyze companies’ needs and refer the companies’ management to resources that can help ensure businesses remain stable and viable. The program targets small businesses which employ 25 employees or fewer and will provide consultation services, workshops, technical assistance, and access to capital to emerging and existing small businesses and start up entrepreneurs in the region. The small business and entrepreneurship program at Pasadena City College will receive $150,000 to develop a business start-up consultation service throughout the region with a no-fee service. The funding will help create a series of short-course workshops that focus on business plans, products and services, industry analysis, marketing, funding sources, and fiscal responsibility. At a time when the number of available jobs is shrinking, this funding will grow new businesses and create new jobs.“We are delighted with the appropriations funds that will enable our Small Business and Entrepreneurship Center to more effectively reach out to the many individuals in the San Gabriel Valley who are seeking to find employment in these tough economic times. We wish to thank Rep. Schiff for his steadfast support for our community and Pasadena City College,” said President Dr. Paulette J. Perfumo. Women At Work in Pasadena will receive $150,000 for its career technology training program for low-income women. This funding will be used to help many women who have little formal education and training making them difficult to employ. The funding will be used to expand the programs and services available to assist job seekers of all ages in gaining essential and marketable skills and in understanding and using technology. “Women At Work is thrilled that our proposal for Career Technology Training for Low-income Women has been selected for funding,” said Adrienne DeVine, President of Women At Work. “Most jobs in today’s marketplace require at least minimal proficiency on computers and training women who typically do not have access or exposure to computers provides a tremendous pathway out of poverty. As the demand for our programs continues to rise, this funding will allow Women At Work to serve more women who come to our comfortable and supportive environment to learn and practice computer skills that will help them get and retain better jobs. On behalf of the community, and the clients, staff, volunteers, and Board of Directors of Women At Work, we appreciate Rep. Schiff’s hard work and support.”
07.16.09	07.16.09 Rep. Schiff and Sen. Casey Introduce Legislation to Safeguard Nuclear Weapons Material Thursday, July 16, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Rep. Schiff and Sen. Casey Introduce Legislation to Safeguard Nuclear Weapons Material WASHINGTON, DC- Coming on the heels of President Obama’s historic trip to Russia, where a framework agreement to reduce American and Russian stockpiles of strategic nuclear weapons was reached, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) introduced the Nuclear Trafficking Prevention Act. The legislation would bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists by establishing nuclear trafficking as a crime against humanity, making it easier to prosecute international nuclear traffickers in U.S. courts, and strengthening penalties for trafficking nuclear material. Just as the international community has agreed that such acts as slavery and genocide are crimes against humanity, so too should it come together to brand nuclear smuggling a crime against humanity. The pattern of undercover busts over the past fifteen years demonstrates that smugglers and other middlemen are willing to take risks to transport these materials not out of ideological zealotry, but rather for commercial gain. Any effective response to reduce the threat posed by nuclear terrorism must include the imposition of severe and drastic penalties, including lengthy jail sentences, to deter those who are tempted to engage in this trade for personal profit. The State Department’s Director of Policy Planning, Dr. Anne Marie Slaughter, endorsed this concept in an opinion piece published several years ago prior to her government service.“All around the world, there remain sources of nuclear material that are poorly secured,” said Rep. Schiff. “Ranging from research reactors to aging weapons arsenals, these materials pose a grave threat to the United States and other nations, as well as an attractive target for smugglers. We must make every possible effort to stop the deadly trade in nuclear material, and the first step is to establish a global understanding that nuclear trafficking is one of the most serious international crimes – in fact, a crime against humanity. We cannot wait until a nuclear catastrophe to go after the responsible, but must be proactive in our efforts to eradicate nuclear trafficking.”“As President Obama and other G-8 leaders reaffirmed last week in Italy, the challenge posed by nuclear terrorism is one of the gravest threats the world faces,” said Senator Casey. “Too often, we hear of individuals arrested for smuggling fissile material or other sensitive components receiving minimal sentences, as short as a few years in prison. That is unacceptable if we hope to deter such actions, especially when people are motivated by simple greed. The punishment must fit the scale of the crime, even if the crime is halted in its early stages. The United States must bolster its own internal laws to strengthen penalties against those who engage in nuclear trafficking and we should forge an international consensus that such acts constitute crimes against humanity.”The Nuclear Trafficking Prevention Act includes the following provisions: A formal statement of U.S. policy that the transfer of a nuclear weapon or device or of nuclear material or technology for use for terrorist purposes is a crime against humanity and that individuals abetting such activities are liable under customary international law; An amendment to the United States Code that any person seeking to engage or assist in the transfer of nuclear weapons, material, or sensitive nuclear technology to a terrorist organization, or actors thereof, shall be fined no less than $2 million and imprisoned for a minimum period of 25 years; A provision directing the Secretary of State to seek the adoption in the United Nations General Assembly of a resolution recognizing that the transfer of a nuclear weapon, fissile material, and related components for the purpose of an act of terrorism is a crime against humanity and to encourage other nations to adopt stringent national laws imposing severe penalties for individuals who aid or abet acts of nuclear smuggling; This legislation complements the President’s announcement, made last week at the G-8 Summit held in L’Aquila, of his plan to host a Global Nuclear Security Summit in March 2010. The Global Nuclear Security Summit will allow discussion of the nature of the threat and develop steps that can be taken together to secure vulnerable materials, combat nuclear smuggling and deter, detect and disrupt attempts at nuclear terrorism. Earlier this year, Senator Casey, along with Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), co-founded the Senate Weapons of Mass Destruction Terrorism Caucus. The Caucus has already sponsored a briefing with a senior official in the Office of the Vice President to review the Administration's efforts and is planning an event later this summer geared towards bio-terrorism. Congressman Schiff has long been a leading voice in Congress on securing vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. Earlier this year, the House passed Rep. Schiff’s Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act (H.R. 730). The legislation would strengthen efforts in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material, and would also encourage the President to negotiate international agreements to govern international nuclear forensics activities.
07.16.09	07.16.09 Schiff Amendment to Expand Domestic Fuel-Efficient Car Technology Passes in the House Thursday, July 16, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Amendment to Expand Domestic Fuel-Efficient Car Technology Passes in the House WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act which included an amendment authored by Rep. Adam Schiff that will expand production of domestic fuel-efficient vehicles. The amendment, approved by the House Appropriations Committee last week, expands the type of cars that would be eligible for the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program, so that new companies and designs can compete on an even playing field with more traditional automakers. The bill now awaits a vote in the Senate before it can be sent to the President to be signed into law. “We need to think outside the box when developing new fuel-efficient vehicles, and that is exactly what some new car designers and manufactures are doing,” said Schiff. “Obsolete bureaucratic definitions should not create roadblocks and stifle innovation. This amendment clears the way for domestic manufactures to find new innovative solutions for fuel-efficient cars to be produced here at home.” Innovative companies around the country, including one incubated at Pasadena's Idealab, are ready to produce highly efficient three-wheeled vehicles. However, advanced car designs that only have three wheels are not eligible for the DOE program, because of an antiquated definition used by the program to define cars that are eligible. Rep. Schiff’s amendment modifies the program to include new innovative vehicles that maximize aerodynamics. Earlier this year, Rep. Schiff cosponsored similar legislation introduced by Congressman Brian Bilbray. The amendment makes fully-enclosed vehicles that are capable of carrying two adults and get at least 75 miles per gallon eligible for the DOE’s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program. The program provides loans to car manufacturers for up to 30 percent of the cost of reequipping, expanding or establishing manufacturing facilities in the U.S. for advanced technology vehicles or components, or for engineering integration preformed in the U.S.The Energy and Water Appropriations bill also included funding for a Smart Grid Initiative in Burbank. The City of Burbank will receive $500,000 to help develop an advance smart grid program that will improve energy efficiency and provide incentives for consumers to reduce energy usage. The smart grid will put into use state-of-the-art smart meters, a high speed load control system, and a very versatile high capacity Wi-Fi technology.
07.08.09	07.08.09 Schiff Testifies at House Judiciary Subcommittee Hearing on U.S. Military Commissions Wednesday, July 08, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Testifies at House Judiciary Subcommittee Hearing on U.S. Military Commissions WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff testified at a House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties oversight hearing that explored the Obama administration’s proposed reforms to the military commissions used to try Guantanamo Bay detainees. Earlier this year, Rep. Schiff introduced the Terrorist Detainees Procedures Act which would close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and make use of the military courts-martial to prosecute detainees who are unlawful enemy combatants. Rep. Schiff’s legislation would ensure our national security needs are met and establish a level of due process that is consistent with our adherence to the rule of law.“Some have called for the creation of a new national security court to try detainees and others have advocated moving all detainees into the federal criminal courts. I have proposed an alternative that I believe better balances our national security needs with our adherence to the rule of law,” Schiff testified at today’s subcommittee hearing. “Military courts-martial have a long history of dispensing justice without compromising military operations.” Below is Congressman Schiff’s full testimony as prepared for delivery: Mr. Chairman, I’d like to thank you for providing me with the opportunity to testify before the Subcommittee today on this important issue.Since al Qaeda and Taliban detainees first arrived at Guantánamo in 2002, Congress has failed to adopt a framework for the detention and prosecution of unlawful combatants that could pass constitutional muster. During the years that immediately followed the establishment of Guantánamo, the Majority in Congress was not willing to confront this difficult issue, and was comfortable with delegating these hard decisions to the executive branch and eventually the courts. I want to commend the Subcommittee Chairman and the Full Committee Chairman for their leadership in convening this hearing today. Earlier this year, the President took an important step by indicating that the detention facility at Guantánamo Bay will be closed within a year. The poorly thought-out prison, and the torture that took place there, have called into question American adherence to the rule of law and discouraged our allies from cooperating with us. Apart from Guantánamo, however, a number of difficult questions still remain. Any post-Guantánamo system to detain unlawful combatants must meet our national security needs and also provide adequate due process to minimize the likelihood of error. Congress must be involved in the formulation of this new system, and changes should not be made solely by Executive Order.When a suspected terrorist is captured on a foreign battlefield, the accepted laws of war allow us to hold an unlawful (or unprivileged) combatant for the duration of the war and to prosecute them for crimes. Two determinations must then be made — whether the person is an unlawful combatant, and whether the person has committed criminal offenses. The question confronting us now is: Who should make these decisions, and how?The Bush administration established tribunals to determine whether someone at Guantánamo was an unlawful combatant, and military commissions to handle any prosecutions. The current Administration has indicated their intention to continue using military commissions after making a number of changes to the rules. Notwithstanding the changes announced by the Administration, I believe the commissions system has proved so flawed, and its due process so inadequate and discredited, that in the case of the detainees at Guantánamo, it should be completely junked. Some have called for the creation of a new national security court to try detainees and others have advocated moving all detainees into the federal criminal courts. I have proposed an alternative that I believe better balances our national security needs with our adherence to the rule of law. Earlier this year, I introduced H.R. 1315, the Terrorist Detainees Procedures Act of 2009 – legislation that would make use of the military courts-martial to prosecute detainees who are unlawful combatants. Military courts-martial have a long history of dispensing justice without compromising military operations. Cases are tried before military judges using a set of due process protections provided for under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Almost any wartime offense could be tried in a military court-martial, and their use would allow us to show the world that we are giving detainees the same procedural protections we give our own servicemembers. Military courts-martial are also well-equipped to provide for the safeguarding of classified information and to deal with unavailable witnesses or involuntary statements in a manner that is fair and provides due process. The military courts-martial framework does not currently have a mechanism to make initial determinations of whether someone is an unlawful combatant, but this can easily be changed by Congress – and my legislation would make such a change. Specifically, it would create a new status review procedure for all detainees currently held at Guantánamo to determine whether each individual is properly designated as an unlawful combatant. A panel of three military judges would be convened in the military courts-martial to conduct the reviews. This process, which replaces the previous Combatant Status Review Tribunals, would follow the same established pre-trial investigation procedures used before charges are referred to a court-martial under Article 32 of the UCMJ.The prior status review tribunal proceedings were so flawed that the threshold decision has to be remade to determine whether individuals are in fact unprivileged combatants. I believe this new review must take place before an independent fact finder and therefore should occur separate and apart from the current review of case files by the Administration.After the new status determination is made, my legislation would require any person determined to be an unlawful combatant to either be tried in court, with a preference for the courts-martial avenue; transferred to a NATO-run detention facility or another country; or held in accordance with the law of armed conflict until the cessation of hostilities directly related to the initial detention, or such time as they are no longer deemed to be a threat. Finally, my legislation would require that those determined not to be unlawful combatants and not suspected of violating any law, be transferred to the person’s country of citizenship, place of capture, or a different country, as long as there are adequate assurances that they will not be subject to torture; or be released.Mr. Chairman, I urge the Subcommittee to examine the courts-martial framework as an option that can both restore confidence in our detention regime while ensuring our national security needs are met.
07.08.09	07.08.09 Schiff Amendment to Expand Domestic Fuel-Efficient Car Technology Adopted by Appropriations Committee Wednesday, July 08, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Amendment to Expand Domestic Fuel-Efficient Car Technology Adopted by Appropriations Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Late last night, the House Appropriations Committee approved an amendment offered by Rep. Adam Schiff that will expand production of domestic fuel-efficient vehicles. The amendment expands the type of cars that would be eligible for the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program, so that new companies and designs can compete on an even playing field with more traditional automakers. “We need to think outside the box when developing new fuel-efficient vehicles, and that is exactly what some new car designers and manufactures are doing,” said Schiff. “Obsolete bureaucratic definitions should not create roadblocks and stifle innovation. This amendment clears the way for domestic manufactures to find new innovative solutions for fuel-efficient cars to be produced here at home.” Innovative companies around the country, including one incubated at Pasadena's Idealab, are ready to produce highly efficient three-wheeled vehicles. However, advanced car designs that only have three wheels are not eligible for the DOE program, because of an antiquated definition used by the program to define cars that are eligible. Rep. Schiff’s amendment modifies the program to include new innovative vehicles that maximize aerodynamics. Earlier this year, Rep. Schiff cosponsored similar legislation introduced by Congressman Brian Bilbray. The amendment makes fully-enclosed vehicles that are capable of carrying two adults and get at least 75 miles per gallon eligible for the DOE’s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentives Program. The program provides loans to car manufacturers for up to 30 percent of the cost of reequipping, expanding or establishing manufacturing facilities in the U.S. for advanced technology vehicles or components, or for engineering integration preformed in the U.S.
06.26.09	06.26.09 A Step Towards Energy Indepedence and Green Jobs CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESFriday, June 26, 2009Madam Speaker, the bill today that Chairman [Henry] Waxman has so carefully shepherded to the floor today is a landmark achievement for this body. For the first time as a Nation we are moving towards energy independence, creating millions of new clean jobs, and confronting the threat that global warming poses to the Earth.As parents, we all struggle to provide our children with a better life. Without the strong action embodied in this bill, the world that we bequeath to our children will be diminished by continued reliance on Middle Eastern oil, by exporting billions of hard-earned American dollars to petro dictatorships, and by a warming Earth.America has been at her best during her greatest struggles and, as before, her industry and entrepreneurial spirit will prevail. Already, the green technology industry is booming across the country, with new factories built and new companies formed every day.Unfortunately, the Federal Government itself has not been able to fully utilize renewable energy. Many renewable energy installations have large upfront costs, which then have to be recovered in the form of cheap energy over the course of many years. But the Federal Government has been restricted from signing long-term contracts for energy, so affordable renewable energy has been unavailable to thousands of government offices around the country.The rule for this bill inserts an important provision that I authored as independent legislation earlier this year and that I worked with many colleagues to include. It loosens the restrictions on energy purchases by the government, and that will spur local green energy development in every State in the Nation.I hope that we can support this measure, this rule, this bill and fulfill the promise that we have given to our constituents, that we will serve this country not only today and during this Congress, but for the long haul, that we will make not only the easy decisions, but the hard ones.
06.19.09	06.19.09 House Impeaches U.S. District Judge Samuel Kent Friday, June 19, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Impeaches U.S. District Judge Samuel Kent Schiff and Goodlatte to serve as lead impeachment managers during Senate trialWashington, D.C. – Today on the House Floor, House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment Chairman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and ranking member Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), presented the case for impeachment of Judge Samuel B. Kent to the full House. After the presentation, the House unanimously approved four impeachment articles relating to Judge Kent. The articles of impeachment included two articles based on sexual assault, and two others based on obstruction of justice. Following the impeachment vote, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte were named the lead impeachment managers for the Senate trial. “It is regrettable that we must use the extraordinary remedy of impeachment to remove a member of the federal bench,” said Schiff. “But Judge Kent's deplorable conduct leaves us no alternative. That he would still cling to the bench from the confines of his prison cell, and ask the public whose trust he has already betrayed to continue paying his salary, demonstrates how little regard he has for the institution he was supposed to serve.” “It is a rare occasion when the House of Representatives must vote on articles of impeachment against a federal judge,” said Goodlatte. “However, when evidence emerges that an individual is abusing his judicial office for his own advantage, the integrity of the judicial system becomes compromised, and the House of Representatives has the duty to investigate the matter and take the appropriate actions to end the abuse and restore confidence in the judicial system. Despite the fact that Judge Kent pled guilty and is currently in jail, he did not resign from his office which allows him to continue collecting his taxpayer-funded salary. The Congress will not sit idly by and allow Judge Kent to extort hundreds of thousands of dollars from the American people.”According to the Congressional Research Service, Judge Kent is only the 14th federal judge in the nation’s history to be the focus of an impeachment in the House. Earlier this month, the House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment and the House Judiciary Committee unanimously approved the four articles of impeachment. Now that the full House has passed these articles of impeachment, a trial for Judge Kent’s removal will be held in the Senate. As the lead impeachment managers, Reps. Schiff and Goodlatte will make the case in the Senate for Judge Kent’s removal. In February 2009, Judge Kent plead guilty to Obstruction of Justice. As part of his plea, he admitted to engaging in non-consensual sexual contact with two court employees. Judge Kent also admitted that he falsely testified before the Special Investigative Committee of the Fifth Circuit regarding his unwanted sexual contact with one of the women. On May 11, 2009, Judge Kent was sentenced to a term of 33 months in prison and ordered to pay fines and restitution. Judge Kent began serving his term of incarceration on June 15th.
06.18.09	06.18.09 Schiff Introduces Resolution Urging Release of American Journalists Held by North Korea Thursday, June 18, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Resolution Urging Release of American Journalists Held by North Korea WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday, Rep. Adam Schiff, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, introduced a resolution urging North Korea to release American journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee on humanitarian grounds. Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee have been held since March 17th when they were detained by North Korean soldiers on the border between China and North Korea. On June 8th, the Korean Central News Agency reported that Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee had been tried for violating North Korean law and sentenced to 12 years of hard labor.“Laura Ling and Euna Lee are two respected American journalists and should be released and returned to their families,” said Schiff. “This resolution is a simple humanitarian appeal to North Korea to release Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee; they should not be used as pawns in the standoff between Pyongyang and the international community over North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs.” Ms. Ling and Ms. Lee’s case has drawn international attention. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, the journalists’ families, international press freedom advocacy organizations, and major national news publications have all called for their release.
06.17.09	06.17.09 Schiff Requests Attorney General to Develop New Security Standards for JPL Employees Wednesday, June 17, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Requests Attorney General to Develop New Security Standards for JPL Employees WASHINGTON, DC – Late yesterday, Rep. Adam Schiff wrote a letter to United States Attorney General Eric Holder requesting that he decline the opportunity to appeal a June 4, 2009 decision by Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in favor of employees at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL). In 2007, employees working at JPL sued NASA over background checks ordered pursuant to Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), which required these employees to provided unnecessary personal information regarding workers health records, mental state, and sexual histories. In the letter, Rep. Schiff requested that the Attorney General develop new national security standards that protect our national security without trampling on the privacy of scientists and engineers. “I fully understand the importance of the cutting edge research that is done by NASA, and the need to safeguard information vital to our national security,” Rep. Schiff wrote in the letter. “We need to ensure the safety of our staff and information, and I am fully committed to that goal. At the same time, we must ensure that we are not gathering personal information unrelated to security concerns, and that personal information is not improperly disseminated.” Below is the full text of the letter sent to Attorney General Holder.June 16, 2009 The Honorable Eric HolderAttorney General of the United StatesDepartment of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Holder:On June 4, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of plaintiff employees at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Nelson et al. vs NASA. These employees, many of them my constituents, had sued NASA over a 2004 requirement that JPL employees be subjected to additional invasive background investigations. The Court denied a request for rehearing the appeal en banc, stating that “although the government asserted several legitimate interests in investigating its contract employees, it had failed to demonstrate that its inquiry was narrowly tailored to meet those interests.”I fully understand the importance of the cutting edge research that is done by NASA, and the need to safeguard information vital to our national security. We need to ensure the safety of our staff and information, and I am fully committed to that goal. At the same time, we must ensure that we are not gathering personal information unrelated to security concerns, and that personal information is not improperly disseminated. In the instant case, the plaintiffs, along with 97% of their colleagues, are considered to be “low risk” and the extensive background investigations required under the terms of the 2004 executive order (HSPD-12), are clearly unnecessary and violative of the plaintiffs’ privacy without any corresponding gain to the nation’s security.As the Ninth Circuit noted, “class members, many of whom have worked at JPL and Caltech for twenty to thirty years, have undergone serious security checks” and that the “record shows the very real potential for intrusions into undisclosed private sexual, financial, and health matters and the use of those private matters to determine job suitability.”I ask you to decline to appeal this decision and call on NASA to develop a security standard that will protect our national security without trampling on the privacy of our best scientists and engineers.Sincerely,Adam B. Schiff
06.17.09	06.17.09 Appropriation Subcommittee Approves Aid for Armenia and Nagorno Karabagh Wednesday, June 17, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Appropriation Subcommittee Approves Aid for Armenia and Nagorno KarabaghWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Schiff announced that the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations approved $48 million in foreign aid for Armenia and $10 million in foreign aid for Negorno Karabagh. Rep. Schiff, a member of the subcommittee, worked closely with Chairwoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) to ensure this critical funding was included in the foreign aid bill.“This is important funding that will help ensure peace and greater economic stability in the Caucasus,” said Schiff. “Armenia and Nagorno Karabagh are important partners in a troubled and economically stagnant region, and this funding will go a long way towards strengthening these emerging democracies.”The $48 million in economic aid matches Armenia’s total in the fiscal year 2009 bill and represents an enormous jump from the Administration’s proposal. The subcommittee increased the President’s proposal for aid to Armenia from $30 million to $48 million, and provided $10 million in humanitarian assistance for Karabagh. The President’s proposal had requested more funding for military assistance for Azerbaijan than for Armenia. However, the subcommittee restored military assistance parity between Armenia and Azerbaijan at $3 million for each country.The State, Foreign Operations Subcommittee also strengthened language governing the President's authority to waive Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act, a provision that restricts aid to Azerbaijan due to its blockades and other offensive actions against Armenia and Karabagh. The bill requires the president to consult with Congress before he can waive the Freedom of Support Act.
06.12.09	06.12.09 Burbank, Glendale, Pasadena to Receive Millions in Recovery Act Funds Friday, June 12, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Burbank, Glendale, Pasadena to Receive Millions in Recovery Act Funds Funding will help create local jobs and revitalize communities WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff announced that the cities of Burbank, Glendale and Pasadena will receive millions of dollars in bonds as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act), which Congress passed and President Obama signed into law early this year. The bonds will help these local governments obtain financing for critical economic development projects, such as public infrastructure development, at lower borrowing costs. The funding from the Recovery Zone Bonds program administered by the Treasury Department is aimed at areas particularly affected by job losses and home foreclosures.“At a time when California is facing a record budget deficit and local cities are struggling to make ends meet, this is welcome news,” said Schiff. “These funds will help jumpstart our local economy putting people to work and revitalizing our community through new development.” Below is a list of the funding each city will receive: Recovery Zone Economic Development Bond Recovery Zone Facility Bond Burbank $10,043,000 $15,065,000 Glendale $5,210,000 $7,815,000 Pasadena $2,552,000 $3,828,000 There are two types of Recovery Zone Bonds that the three cities will receive. The first is the Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds, a type of taxable Build America Bond, that allow state and local governments to obtain lower borrowing costs through a new direct federal payment subsidy, for 45 percent of the interest, to finance a broad range of qualified economic development projects, such as job training and educational programs.The second type of bond, the Recovery Zone Facility Bond, is a type of traditional tax-exempt private activity bond that may be used by private businesses in designated recovery zones to finance a broad range of projects that fall outside of typical public activities such as large manufacturing plants, distribution centers, and hotels.
06.11.09	06.11.09 House Passes Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act in State Department Authorization Bill Thursday, June 11, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Passes Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act in State Department Authorization Bill Measure requires expanded examination of freedom of the press worldwide and creates grants to strengthen press freedom around the globeWASHINGTON, DC— Late yesterday, the House passed the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act as part of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act (H.R. 2410). The measure, authored by Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, expands the examination of press freedom worldwide in the State Department’s annual human rights report and establishes a grant program aimed at broadening and strengthening media independence internationally. Rep. Schiff worked with Foreign Affairs Chairman Howard Berman to get the measure added to the Foreign Relations Authorization bill.“We have drawn inspiration from Daniel Pearl’s life and hope this legislation will better protect his colleagues who serve on the frontlines in the fight for greater accountability and transparency,” said Schiff. “Freedom of expression cannot exist where journalists are not safe from persecution and attack. Our government must promote freedom of the press by putting on center stage those countries in which journalists are killed, imprisoned, kidnapped, threatened, or censored.”The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act is named in honor of former Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan, just four months after the September 11th attacks. The measure calls upon the Secretary of State to greatly expand its examination of the status of freedom of the press worldwide in the State Department’s Annual Country Reports on Human Rights Practices. The Daniel Pearl Act requires the State Department to identify countries in which there were violations of press freedom, and whether the government authorities of those countries participate in, facilitate, or condone the violations. This report will spotlight those governments which seek to silence media opposition.The measure also established a grant program. Grants recipients will provide regionally and culturally relevant training to journalists and media organizations to help them meet international standards in both traditional and web-based reporting. For the first time, these grants can span multiple years, giving organizations much-needed time and flexibility to create a sustainable framework for media enterprises. Often, media assistance programs are short-term, ranging from one year projects to weekend workshops, which makes it difficult to build a solid foundation for independent media before funding runs out.
06.10.09	06.10.09 Schiff, Goodlatte Comment on Judiciary Committee Passage of Impeachment Articles for Judge Samuel Kent Wednesday, June 10, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Goodlatte Comment on Judiciary Committee Passage of Impeachment Articles for Judge Samuel Kent House to Consider 14th Impeachment of a Judge in Nation’s HistoryWashington, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment chairman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and ranking member Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), presented the case for impeachment of Judge Samuel B. Kent to the full Judiciary Committee today. After the presentation, the Judiciary Committee unanimously approved four impeachment articles relating to Judge Kent. The articles included two on the grounds of sexual assault, one on the grounds of obstruction of justice, and one on the grounds of providing false statements to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice. According to the Congressional Research Service, Judge Kent will be only the 14th federal judge in the nation’s history to be the focus of an impeachment in the House. “These acts of sexual assault and obstruction of justice are, as the judge who sentenced Mr. Kent to incarceration stated, ‘a stain on the justice system itself,’” said Schiff. “Were the House of Representatives to sit idly by and allow Mr. Kent to continue to hold the office of U.S. District Judge while sitting in prison, and after committing such high crimes and misdemeanors, it would be a stain on the Congress as well.” “When evidence emerges that an individual is abusing his judicial office for his own advantage, the integrity of our entire judicial system becomes compromised and the House of Representatives has the duty to investigate the matter and take the appropriate actions to end the abuse and restore confidence in the judicial system,” said Rep. Goodlatte. “After hearing the testimony of witnesses and examining all the evidence it has become clear that Judge Kent has engaged in conduct, including obstruction of justice and repeated sexual assaults on court employees, which merits the passage of all four articles of impeachment against Judge Kent.”Yesterday, the House Judiciary Committee Task Force on Judicial Impeachment unanimously approved the four articles of impeachment and recommended them to the full Judiciary Committee. Now that the full House Judiciary Committee has passed these articles of impeachment, they will now be considered on the House Floor. According to a federal Grand Jury indictment, Judge Kent is alleged to have committed acts constituting Abusive Sexual Contact and Attempted Aggravated Sexual Abuse in 2003 and 2007 against Ms. Cathy McBroom, a Deputy Clerk occasionally assigned to Judge Kent’s courtroom. Judge Kent is also alleged to have committed acts constituting Aggravated Sexual Abuse and Abusive Sexual Contact from 2004 through at least 2005 against Ms. Donna Wilkerson, Judge Kent’s secretary. Last week, at an evidentiary hearing the Task Force heard testimony from Ms. McBroom and Ms. Wilkerson. In February 2009, Judge Kent plead guilty to Obstruction of Justice. As part of his plea, he admitted to engaging in non-consensual sexual contact with Ms. McBroom without her permission in 2003 and 2007. Judge Kent also admitted to engaging in non-consensual sexual contact with Ms. Wilkerson without her permission from 2004 through at least 2005. Judge Kent also admitted that he falsely testified before the Special Investigative Committee of the Fifth Circuit regarding his unwanted sexual contact with Ms. Wilkerson. On May 11, 2009, Judge Kent was sentenced to a term of 33 months in prison and ordered to pay fines and restitution to Ms. McBroom and Ms. Wilkerson. Judge Kent is ordered to surrender himself on June 15th.
05.21.09	05.21.09 Schiff Lauds President Obama's Commitment to Closing Guantanamo Bay Prison Thursday, May 21, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Lauds President Obama’s Commitment to Closing Guantanamo Bay Prison WASHINGTON D.C. – Today Rep. Adam Schiff, author of the Terrorist Detainees Procedures Act (H.R. 1315), welcomed President Obama’s steadfast determination to close the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility. Rep. Schiff has been an outspoken critic of the prison for years and has authored a number of bills, similar to the President’s plan announced today, that aim to reform detention policy. Rep. Schiff is committed to seeing that the prison is closed, our national security objectives are met, and adequate due process for detainees being held at Guantanamo Bay is provided. “The President today demonstrated again why the American people have such confidence in him -- he does not shy away from the most difficult issues and his national security strategy is tough, smart and true to our highest ideals,” said Schiff. “I fully support his decision to close Guantanamo, his willingness to prosecute the detainees within the rule of law, and the necessity of our sharing the burden of their incarceration with other nations. I remain concerned about the continued use of the military commissions established by the prior administration, and believe we would be better served by prosecuting the detainees in the military courts martial, or, when feasible, in federal courts. It will also be important to ensure that those the Administration must continue to detain, receive an appropriate level of judicial review of their status as unprivileged belligerents. I look forward to working with the Administration to ensure that our national security is ensured, our values are upheld, and that the Congress provides the legislative means to accomplish these essential ends.”
05.20.09	05.20.09 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils "2009 International Piracy Watch List" Wednesday, May 20, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils “2009 International Piracy Watch List” Washington, D.C.: At a press conference today the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), unveiled the “2009 International Piracy Watch List”. In an effort to combat international copyright piracy by calling attention to countries where piracy has reached alarming levels the Caucus announced they will closely monitor the serious problems of copyright piracy in the following five countries: China, Russia, Canada, Spain, and Mexico.The advent of digital technology holds the promise of a golden age for movies, music, video games and other forms of entertainment. More new devices for watching, listening to, recording, sharing and saving music and movies have emerged in the last decade than in the previous 100 years. And these technologies are a key to American economic growth: indeed, the combined copyright industries – movies, home video and television programming, music, books, video games and software – generate more revenues than any other single manufacturing sector, including automobiles and auto parts, aircraft and agriculture. They are responsible for more than six percent of the nation’s GDP. The film industry alone has a surplus balance of trade with every country in the world. Disturbingly, however, an explosion in piracy and a diminution in copyright protection have accompanied these exciting new advances in entertainment technology. Organized crime has become heavily involved in foreign DVD and CD piracy. Criminals are using the same formidable distribution network and resources that were developed for drug trafficking and arms smuggling. The result, in these and other countries, is a virtual evisceration of the legitimate market for American entertainment.“In tough economic times it’s more important than ever to safeguard intellectual property,” said Senator Whitehouse. “American entertainment and software companies create millions of jobs, generate millions of dollars in tax revenue, and drive much of our country’s research and development. Piracy threatens those jobs, those revenues and the value of that research, and we need bipartisan solutions to stop it.”America is the largest creator, producer, and exporter of copyrighted material. Industry estimates that global piracy costs U.S. firms over $25 billion in lost sales annually.“Fostering strong intellectual property protection builds the economies of not only developed nations, like ours, but for any nation striving to achieve a vibrant and growing economy,” said Senator Hatch. “Conversely, counterfeiting and piracy cripple growth and stifle innovation. Many do not understand that ideas, inventions, artistic works, and other commercially viable products created out of one’s own mental processes deserve the same protection under the law as any tangible product or piece of real estate. Unfortunately, some believe that if they find it on the Internet then it must be free. We must stop this destructive mindset.” Senator Hatch continued, “Today’s release of the 2009 Watch List is a sobering reminder of how pervasive copyright piracy has become in the global IP community. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus to spearhead legislative initiatives to combat piracy and counterfeiting abroad.”The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus intends to focus on copyright piracy problems in China, Russia, Canada, Spain, and Mexico. These countries stand out because of the scope and depth of their piracy problems, which cost the U.S. copyright industries and the millions of Americans who work in these companies billions of dollars and because piracy in these countries is largely the result of a lack of political will to confront the problem. “The creation, production, and export of music, movies, software, and books, make up America’s new ‘assembly line’ of the 21st century,” said Congressman Schiff. “Just as we don’t allow cars to be stolen off the lots of Ford or GM dealerships, we cannot allow movies, music, and computer programs to be stolen from motion picture studios, recording studios, and software manufactures. The U.S. copyright industry deserves the same protection under the law.”Congressman Goodlatte said, “The U.S. is far and away the world's largest producer and exporter of the creative works that entertain, inform and educate the world. However, copyright piracy results in billions of dollars in lost revenue for the U.S. each year and even greater losses to the U.S. economy in terms of reduced job growth and exports. While the U.S. is the world’s leader in intellectual property protections, the problem does not stop at our borders. Piracy in today’s economy is a global problem. We must encourage other countries to enact and enforce strong intellectual property laws in order to fully protect America’s inventors and authors, as well as their own.”The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which was originally formed in 2003, is made up of over 70 members of Congress. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
05.14.09	05.14.09 House Passes Schiff's Bill to Pay Tribute to "Go for Broke" Regiments Thursday, May 14, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Passes Schiff’s Bill to Pay Tribute to “Go for Broke” Regiments Bill honors Japanese-American World War II veteransWASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed Rep. Adam Schiff’s (D-CA) legislation that will pay tribute to the Japanese-American 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments. The legislation awards these brave soldiers the Congressional Gold Medal for their dedicated service to our nation during World War II. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’s highest civilian honor and requires two-thirds of the House to cosponsor the legislation before it can be voted on by the House. Two weeks ago, Rep. Schiff collected the threshold 290th cosponsor and Majority Leader Hoyer quickly moved the bill to the floor for a vote today. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) will introduce companion legislation in the Senate this week. “These men served with pride, courage and conviction, waging a war on two fronts – abroad against a forceful and oppressive fascism, and at home against the intolerance of racial injustice,” said Schiff. “At a time when they could have easily turned their backs on a country which had sent their families to internment camps, these men chose instead to serve, and to inspire. It is long past due that Congress recognize their heroic efforts with Congress’s most prestigious award.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Stars and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.
05.12.09	05.12.09 Recognizing Asian American Pacific Heritage Month CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMadam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Last week marked the 30th anniversary of the first ever Asian Pacific American Heritage Week, made possible by a joint resolution signed by President Jimmy Carter.I am proud to represent one of the most diverse congressional districts in the country. One in four of my constituents is of Asian Pacific heritage--many of whom are of Chinese, Filipino, Korean, Japanese, and Vietnamese descent.The 29th Congressional District boasts of an impressive list of Asian Pacific American civic leaders who are strongly committed to this community. John Chiang, serving California as Controller, is the highest-ranking Asian Pacific American elected state official. Also, as one of California's twelve constitutional officers, Judy Chu serves as Vice Chair of the California State Board of Equalization. Other state officials include State Senator Carol Liu and Assembly Member Mike Eng. On the local level, we have Alhambra Council Members Stephen Sham and Gary Yamauchi; Alhambra Unified School Board Members Chester Chau and Robert ``Bob'' Gin; Garvey School Board Members Janet Chin, Henry Lo, and John Yuen; Monterey Park Mayor Mitchell Ing and Council Members David Lau, Betty Tom Chu, and Anthony Wong; San Gabriel Council Member Albert Huang; South Pasadena Council Member Mike Ten; South Pasadena Unified School Board Member Joseph Loo; Temple City Mayor Judy Wong and Council Member Vincent Yu; and Temple City Unified School Board Member Janet Rhee.During the 110th Congress, I had the distinct honor of introducing legislation to pay tribute to the former Mayor of San Gabriel, Chi Mui, by posthumously naming the San Gabriel Post Office in his honor. Chi was the first Chinese American mayor in San Gabriel, a city where close to half of the population is Asian American. The bill was signed into law on August 12, 2008 and the post office was dedicated on October 25, 2008, one day before Chi's fifty-sixth birthday, making this the third post office in the nation to be named after a Chinese American. In addition, to commemorate Women's History Month earlier this year, I had the privilege of naming Melinda Hsia and Yin Yin Huang Women of the Year in the 29th Congressional District. They are truly exceptional women who have improved the quality of life for our community.The contributions of Asian Americans to our country is not limited to the above-mentioned individuals. Our Nation has benefited from the contributions of Asian Americans for decades. The Japanese American 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the ``Go For Broke'' regiments, courageously served our nation during World War II and earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat. Earlier this year, I introduced legislation to pay tribute to the ``Go For Broke'' regiment by awarding them the Congressional Gold Medal, Congress's highest civilian honor.This past April marked the 30th anniversary of the Taiwan Relations Act. It has been three decades since the United States and Taiwan codified their commercial and cultural relations and a great number of my constituents have benefited greatly from this action. I also recently had the pleasure of participating in the Committee of 100 19th Annual Conference--a forum to address issues regarding U.S.-China relations and issues of importance to the Chinese American community.Americans of Asian descent are one of the fastest growing minority groups in the nation. I am positive that in the years to come, we will be adding many more names to the growing list of civic leaders and many more distinctions to their list of accomplishments. I am truly honored to represent the many extraordinary men and women in my district and commend their selfless dedication and service to the community.
05.11.09	05.11.09 Schiff Lauds Release of Iranian-American Journalist Roxana Saberi Monday, May 11, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Lauds Release of Iranian-American Journalist Roxana Saberi WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Schiff, Co-chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, lauded the release of Iranian-American Journalist Roxana Saberi. Ms. Saberi has lived and worked as a freelance journalist in Iran since 2003. In January, she was arrested for buying a bottle of wine, which is illegal in Iran. Later charged with spying, she was sentenced to 8 years in prison in April. However, today an appeals court reduced her sentence and freed her to return to the United States. “I am elated to hear the news of her release,” said Schiff. “The charges against Ms. Saberi were baseless, and her trial was a sham – lasting less than an hour. Unfortunately, journalists all around the world find themselves falsely imprisoned like Ms. Saberi, and the problem is widespread. I remain committed to promoting freedom of the press by putting on center stage those countries in which journalists are killed, imprisoned, kidnapped, threatened, or censored. Ms. Saberi and her colleagues provide a critical service to the public, and we must do all we can to raise awareness of the dangers they face in their profession.”
05.04.09	05.04.09 Recognizing World Press Freedom Day CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMonday, May 04, 2009(View Video)Madam Speaker, Sunday, May 3, was World Press Freedom Day. Three years ago, in conjunction with World Press Freedom Day, Congressman Mike Pence, Senator Chris Dodd, Senator Dick Lugar, and I established the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press.Since then, this bipartisan, bicameral caucus has sought to highlight the importance of free expression around the world. The caucus is a forum where Members of Congress can come together to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists worldwide. Our caucus works to send a strong message that Congress will defend democratic values and human rights wherever they are threatened.We have hosted panel discussions with press freedom experts, journalists, and victims of press freedom crimes; written to leaders of countries which jail journalists, impose censorship, and allow harassment, attacks, and threats to occur with impunity. We have spoken out here on the House floor and in the media to call for reforms in countries that seek to censor freedom of speech and expression.Just recently, Representative Pence and I introduced the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act, H.R. 1861. This bill is named in honor of former Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan just 4 months after the September 11 attacks.This legislation will establish annual State Department reports on the status of press freedom in every country in the world and create a grant program aimed at broadening and strengthening the independence of journalists and media organizations.Our government must promote freedom of the press by putting on center stage those countries in which journalists are killed, imprisoned, kidnapped, threatened, censored--and this will do just that.A free and independent media provides the nourishment for democracies to thrive and grow. Citizens rely upon credible, accurate information from the media to make informed decisions and hold their leaders accountable. Information is power, which is precisely why many governments attempt to control the press to suppress opposition and preempt dissent.Far too often, the reporters and editors who demand reform, accountability, and transparency find themselves at risk. The censorship, intimidation, imprisonment, and murder of these journalists are not only crimes against these individuals, but they also impact those who are denied access to their ideas and information.In 2008, the Committee to Protect Journalists reported that 41 journalists were killed in connection with their work. Another 125 were falsely imprisoned for their reporting. Unfortunately, 2009 is shaping up to be a similarly dangerous year, having already seen 11 journalists murdered.For Americans, this should spur us to consider the role that journalists play in our society and to ponder what our Nation would be like if this cornerstone of our liberty were to be curtailed. Many Americans take the concept of a free press for granted and don't realize that an unfettered press is vital to America's national security and to our democracy here at home.But much of the world's population is not as fortunate as we are when it comes to access to independent news. Recent national news accounts have highlighted American journalists being detained on trumped-up charges in Iran and North Korea.However, there are dozens of cases like these across the globe that don't get attention. That is why each year, as co-Chairs of the caucus, we host a Special Order hour to highlight countries whose abuses of press freedom are particularly egregious.In 2007, we focused on Russia, profiling the 18 journalists murdered in Russia during the administration of Vladimir Putin. Last year, we focused on China and its incarceration of more journalists than any other country.Later this month, we will host another Special Order hour where we will focus on growing press freedom abuses in Sri Lanka. Threats, attacks, imprisonment, and murders of journalists are becoming all too common in Sri Lanka.This week is a particularly noteworthy week for press freedom in Sri Lanka. J.S. Tissainayagam, a contributor and editor for a number of print and online publications, will stand trial on Wednesday, and he faces a possible 20-year sentence if he is convicted. He is being prosecuted for allegedly inciting communal disharmony related to articles that he wrote as early as in 2006.In March of 2008, J.S. was arrested under emergency regulations and held without habeas corpus for more than 5 months before being charged. His trial is set to resume on May 6, but it is our hope the Sri Lankan government will drop these baseless charges and release J.S. before the trial resumes.So today, Madam Speaker, we recognize World Press Freedom Day and call on nations like Sri Lanka to stop the persecution of innocent journalists. We use this day as an occasion to pay tribute to journalists and to reflect upon their role in advancing fundamental human rights.I want to thank all journalists around the world, especially those who work in harm's way, for doing all they do to foster democracy and promote freedom. Your work does not go unrecognized, and we appreciate your dedication to this noble profession.
05.04.09	05.04.09 A Tribute to Justice Sandra Day O'Connor Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, on the occasion of her recognition as a ``Person of the Century'' by the Rotary Club of Los Angeles in celebration of their Centennial year.In a year where we witnessed the first African-American assume the Office of the President of the United States, it is especially appropriate to honor a woman who shattered the marble ceiling of the United States Supreme Court some 28 years ago and served as an important role model for so many in this Nation.Born in El Paso, Texas in 1930, Sandra Day O'Connor spent several of her early years growing up on her family's ranch in Arizona. Later, in 1950, she graduated from Stanford University with a bachelor's degree in economics, followed by a juris doctorate in 1952. In 1952, she married John Jay O'Connor, Ill, and they have three sons. After working for a time in both California and Germany, Sandra Day O'Connor again took up residence in the state of Arizona.In Arizona, O'Connor held positions in both law and politics, working as an Assistant Attorney General and serving in the State Senate, appointed by the Governor to fill a vacancy. After twice winning reelection to the State Senate, she ran for the position of Judge in the Maricopa County Superior Court of Arizona in 1974. While a judge she gained a reputation for being firm but just, and she would later be appointed to the Arizona Court of Appeals.In 1981, Sandra Day O'Connor made history after being nominated by President Ronald Reagan for the position of Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. She received unanimous Senate approval, becoming the first woman to serve on the Supreme Court.During her tenure on the Court, Justice O'Connor gained a reputation for approaching each case with an open mind and for seeking out practical solutions to complex legal issues. Her pragmatic and centrist approach had an important moderating influence on the Court, and her independent philosophy had an important impact on a number of seminal cases. In 2006, Justice O'Connor retired after serving over 24 years on the Court.Justice O'Connor and I have a shared belief in the need for an independent judiciary and a shared desire to improve relations between our branches of government. As founder and Co-Chair of he Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch, I had the distinct pleasure of hosting Justice O'Connor in the U.S. Capitol, just before her retirement, for an event designed to jointly promote these common goals.I consider it an honor to recognize Justice Sandra Day O'Connor and ask my colleagues to join me in commending her on the occasion of her recognition as a Rotary Club of Los Angeles ``Person of the Century.''
04.28.09	04.28.09 Burbank High School Student Wins Congressional Arts Competition Tuesday, April 28, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Burbank High School Student Wins Congressional Arts CompetitionWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that Daeun Han, a student at Burbank High School and a resident of Burbank, has won the 2009 29th Congressional District Arts Competition. Ms. Han’s piece “Untitled 1,” will be included in the nationwide Congressional Arts Competition: An Artistic Discovery in Washington, D.C. Her artwork will hang in the United States Capitol for one year, along with that of other winners from around the nation. Lance Ridenoure, a student at John Marshall Fundamental School in Pasadena and Nicole Arkosy, a student at La Salle High School in Pasadena were named the second and third place winners, respectively.“I am always extremely impressed with the quality of artwork submitted in the arts competition each year,” Schiff said. “All the students deserve recognition for their hard work and exceptional talent. I congratulate Daeun, Lance and Nicole on being named the winners and look forward to enjoying their artwork in the Capitol and in my offices throughout the coming year.” Ms. Han’s artwork was awarded first prize by a panel of local artists at the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens last night. Second place was awarded to Lance Ridenoure, a Pasadena resident, for his work titled, “Food Fight.” Mr. Ridenoure’s artwork will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, D.C. office for one year.Third place was awarded to Nicole Arkosy, a Pasadena resident, for her work titled, “Naples.” Ms. Arkosy’s piece will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Pasadena office for one year.This year, there were 62 entries representing 24 high schools in the 29th Congressional District, and over 500 people attended the award ceremony. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Recognition from Congressman Schiff.
04.28.09	04.28.09 Local Cities Receive Stimulus Funding to Help Fight Crime Tuesday, April 28, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Local Cities Receive Stimulus Funding to Help Fight Crime WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Schiff announced that the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), a part of the Department of Justice, has awarded local cities funds that were provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act) of 2009. The grants awarded through BJA’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) will help local governments support a broad range of activities to prevent and control crime and to improve the criminal justice system.“During a time when state and local governments are strapped for cash and are struggling to pay for critical necessities, this is welcomed news,” said Schiff. “These funds will enable our cities to retain law enforcement personnel and continue to fund programs that help keep our neighborhoods safe.”These funds can be used for a variety of efforts such as hiring law enforcement officers; supporting drug and gang task forces; funding crime prevention and domestic violence programs; and supporting courts, corrections, treatment, and justice information sharing initiatives. The procedure for allocating JAG grants is based on a formula of population and violent crime statistics, in combination with a minimum allocation to ensure that each state and territory receives an appropriate share of funding. Below is a breakdown of grants of each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. ALHAMBRA CITY $143,111 BURBANK CITY $122,350 GLENDALE CITY $173,223 MONTEREY PARK CITY $80,668 PASADENA CITY $342,008 SAN GABRIEL CITY $98,260 SOUTH PASADENA CITY $19,018 TEMPLE CITY $36,610
04.23.09	04.23.09 Schiff Amendment to Bolster Law Enforcement's Investigative Capabilities Passes House Thursday, April 23, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Amendment to Bolster Law Enforcement’s Investigative Capabilities Passes House Measure enables hiring of forensic analysts to help catch rapists, murderers, and violent felonsWASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed an amendment authored by Rep. Adam Schiff, which will increase the number of forensic analysts and laboratory personnel working to catch rapists, murderers and other violent felons. The amendment was included as part of the COPS Improvements Act of 2009 (H.R. 1139), a bill that will reauthorize the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which provides grants to states and localities to hire law enforcement officers. Rep. Schiff’s amendment will expand the scope of the COPS program to cover forensic analysts and laboratory personnel who serve in crime labs and who are in high demand nationwide. “There are far too many stories of people being victimized by predators who should have been behind bars long ago,” said Schiff. “Forensic analysis is a proven tool that can catch rapists and murderers before they can strike again. This amendment will give law enforcement the resources they need to catch violent felons and make our communities safer.” Rep. Schiff’s amendment provides an exemption to the requirement that COPS funding be used to hire sworn officers and gives states and localities the leeway to fund forensic lab personnel with COPS funding. Understaffing and a lack of resources in labs are causing major delays in processing evidence, and sometimes evidence is not being processed at all. The most recent census of our nation’s public crime labs by the Bureau of Justice Statistics in 2005 found 359,000 backlogged pending requests older than 30 days. Los Angeles County alone has a backlog of approximately 4,700 unprocessed rape kits. In some cases forensic evidence collected from sexual assault cases, often including DNA, has sat on shelves for years. In 311 cases that Los Angeles County has identified in an audit, sexual assault kits are at least 10 years old, exceeding the statue of limitations so that no charges can be filed even if a DNA test yielded a solid match.
04.22.09	04.22.09 Celebrating Earth Day Madam Speaker, the Los Angeles basin holds one of the greatest concentrations of humanity in the world. People have come from all over the Earth to live there--when one walks down a street in Glendale or Alhambra one can hear a language from ten thousand miles away on one block and read signs in a vastly different language on the next. But if you look up a little higher, above the signs and above the buildings, you'll see gray-green mountains looking down on it all. In my district, we're right up against the Verdugo, Santa Monica and San Gabriel Mountains, and they surprise you all the time, appearing at street corners from behind the buildings, playing hide-and-seek with intervening hills and highways.Though few of my constituents live up there, I try to get up into the hills as often as I can, and I'm often surprised by how many of my neighbors I run into on the trail. I think that, like me, they wander in the chaparral and oak forests to get away for a while, and find some perspective in the process. Among the families, teenagers and retirees I pass, I see all of the cultures I know from the streets of my district, all enjoying the fact that they can find some peace and quiet just a few minutes away from one of the largest cities in the world.Our green spaces play an irreplaceable role in our communities, and on this Earth Day, I would like to celebrate them. This is a day to think globally, but it is also a day to act locally, by taking your family to the park and exploring all that you find there. In the words of John Muir, "When one tugs at a single thing in nature, he finds it attached to the rest of the world."
04.19.09	04.19.09 Confronting Hate: Preventing Another Holocaust Madam Speaker, at ten o'clock this morning, the nation of Israel observed two minutes of silence in observance of Yom Hashoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day. For those two minutes, all activity in the country ceased to honor of the six million Jews who were murdered by the Nazis during the madness of the Final Solution. For Israelis, the Holocaust remains the crucible that produced their state and its impact is felt daily across Israeli society--from politics to the arts.Here in the United States, the Holocaust is more remote. The GIs who helped to liberate the Nazi death camps more than six decades ago are fading into history and the grainy black and white footage of the victims images that stunned the world in the 1940s--now seem distant to many Americans.For Israelis, though, the Holocaust serves as an omnipresent reminder of the historical insecurity of the Jewish people for whom persecution and exile have characterized two millennia of wandering from their ancient homeland. Coupled with Israel's mainly hostile and fundamentally unstable neighbors, the memory of Hitler's attempt to exterminate European Jewry has served to make Israelis extraordinarily vigilant in the face of constant security threats.Israeli security analysts have focused their concern in recent years on Iran, which they see as the most critical existential threat to the Jewish state.Through its support for Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza and the West Bank, Tehran has taken up positions along Israel's borders and its proxies have repaid their Iranian masters handsomely by provoking large-scale military actions by Israel in 2006 and December of last year.Through its relentless pursuit of the nuclear fuel cycle, Iran's radical regime seeks to dominate the region and to erect a permanent threat to Israel's security and the Israeli people.Through its statements and the virulence of state-controlled media, Iranian leaders, particularly President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad are clearly fixated on the demonization and destruction of Israel. Just yesterday, the Iranian president sparked a walkout at a United Nations racism conference in Geneva when he launched into a rambling rant against Israel and Jews. The prospect of Ahmadinejad with nuclear weapons is one that keeps many Israelis up at night and should be keeping many of us awake as well.Given the potential consequences, the United States must make the prevention of Iran developing the bomb a cornerstone of both its strategy for the Middle East and its nonproliferation agenda. To do otherwise would place Israel in Iran's nuclear crosshairs and likely spur a regional arms race as Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates could seek to match any Iranian nuclear weapons capability.I support President Obama's decision to reach out to Tehran and I believe that tough, concerted diplomacy can be effective in getting the Iranian government to reassess its nuclear policy. But to be effective, that diplomacy must include a wide range of both inducements and disincentives. And it must take into account the character and nature of the current Iranian regime. And, finally, those charged with executing the policy must be willing to consider other alternatives should diplomacy fail.Tehran's current declared enrichment activities at its Natanz facility are subject to regular inspections by the InternationalAtomic Energy Agency, which should be able to spot diversion or any attempt to produce weapons grade material before it can be turned into a weapon. As long as the IAEA can maintain its surveillance of the Natanz facility, any Iranian intention to produce weapons-grade material there is likely to be frustrated.What concerns many senior officials in Israel, here in the United States and in Europe, is the possibility that Iran, which continues to withhold a lot of information about its nuclear program, may have a parallel, secret nuclear program that is beyond the reach of the IAEA and western intelligence monitoring. As David Albright, the President of the Institute for Science and International Security, told the Financial Times last week, aside from Natanz "we don't know anything about what they are doing, how many centrifuges they have made, or whether they are ready to go with a duplicate facility that would allow them to produce fissile material."The juxtaposition of renewed diplomatic overtures and the unease over the extent of what we do not know about Iran's capabilities or its intentions, may strengthen our hand with the other permanent members of the UN Security Council plus Germany, who are working to produce a collective response to the Iranian nuclear challenge. If our international partners perceive a new American willingness to explore seriously the prospect for a negotiated resolution to the Iran problem, they may also be ready to consider the more robust coercive measures that may become necessary if Iran is shown to be pursuing a nuclear weapons capability.International cohesion will be absolutely vital if we are to resolve this standoff without resorting to force. Tehran has been adroit at exploiting differences between the United States and its international partners, some of whom have been unwilling to consider the possibility that President Ahmadinejad's vitriol is not merely intended for domestic consumption but is a real reflection of his murderous intentions. This could prove a tragic mistake.Seventy-five years ago, Europeans, Americans and even many German Jews dismissed Hitler's threats against the Jews as political posturing. How could Germany, a nation with a rich and distinguished culture, whose cities embodied the best of cosmopolitan Europe, follow a depraved Austrian corporal into the depths of hatred? Humanity paid an enormous price for its passivity and the world pledged "never again."We may now be faced with a similar threat from another society with a rich culture going back thousands of years and a sophisticated citizenry. Do we dismiss Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as a hate-filled demagogue, or do we take his threats seriously? All of us--Americans, Israelis, Europeans and Russians--would be well advised to remember the past, even as we work towards what we hope will be a safer tomorrow.
04.01.09	04.01.09 Schiff, Pence Introduce Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act Wednesday, April 01, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Pence Introduce Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act Bill requires annual report on the health of freedom of the press worldwide and creates grants to strengthen press freedom around the globeWASHINGTON, DC— Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Pence (R-IN), co-chairmen of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, introduced legislation today to highlight and promote freedom of the press worldwide. The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act is named in honor of former Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl who was kidnapped and murdered by terrorists in Pakistan, just four months after the September 11th attacks. The legislation will establish an annual State Department report on the status of press freedom in every country in the world and create a grant program aimed at broadening and strengthening the independence of journalists and media organizations. “Freedom of expression cannot exist where journalists and the media are not independent and safe from persecution and attack,” said Schiff. “Our government must promote freedom of the press by putting on center stage those countries in which journalists are killed, imprisoned, kidnapped, threatened, or censored.”“I can think of no better way to honor the memory of Daniel Pearl,” Pence said. “This legislation takes valuable steps in highlighting and supporting the critical work of investigative journalism, while putting on notice those countries who choose to ignore the freedom of the press and perpetrate violence and censorship that should offend the conscience of all those who cherish freedom.”The legislation calls upon the Secretary of State to submit an annual report that will assess the state of press freedom in every country and will bring attention to those governments, extremists, and criminal groups which seek to silence free expression.Additionally, the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act will establish a grant program which will help foster the cultivation of independent media in countries where it is needed most. Often, media assistance programs are short-term, ranging from one year projects to weekend workshops, which makes it difficult to build a solid foundation for independent media before funding runs out. The Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act will give prominence to freedom of the press projects within the State Department, and ensure a long-term, holistic approach to journalist and media development.
03.31.09	03.31.09 House Approves Schiff Provision to Improve Veterans Access to College Financial Aid Tuesday, March 31, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Approves Schiff Provision to Improve Veterans Access to College Financial Aid Washington, DC – Yesterday, the House passed a bill to make changes to the Higher Education Opportunity Act which included a provision spearheaded by Congressman Adam Schiff that will ensure that returning Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans’ G.I. Bill benefits do not count against them when applying for college financial aid. Rep. Schiff’s provision corrects an oversight in the original bill that could have considered Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance benefits as earned income when those veterans applied for higher education financial aid, potentially reducing the amount of need-based aid veterans could qualify for. “Veterans returning from combat should have ready access to college to seek higher education or for job training,” said Schiff. “This change will make it easier and more affordable for veterans to pursue college degrees, and I thank Rep. George Miller for his efforts to move this legislation forward.”In passing the Higher Education Opportunity Act last year, Congress intended to provide qualified Veterans with 100% of the cost of a public four-year undergraduate education. After hearing from veterans and the University of California about veterans potentially finding trouble accessing the student aid necessary to cover their education costs, Rep. Schiff worked with Representatives George Miller and Susan Davis to make sure that the intent of Congress was met. The oversight in the original Higher Education Opportunity Act exempted veterans G.I. Bill benefits from counting as earned income beginning on July 1, 2010. This oversight may have affected those veterans applying for financial assistance for the 2009-2010 academic years. The legislation the House passed yesterday clarifies that Iraq and Afghanistan veterans’ benefits do not count as income, effective immediately, and lasting through the July 1, 2010 coverage date.
03.30.09	03.30.09 Bob Hope Airport to Receive Stimulus Funding for Safety Upgrades Monday, March 30, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Bob Hope Airport to Receive Stimulus Funding for Safety Upgrades Funding to create local construction jobsWashington, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff lauded the Department of Transportation’s announcement that the Bob Hope Airport will receive $3.5 million for safety upgrades on three taxiways. The funding is part of the stimulus package approved by Congress earlier this year and will help create approximately 35 local construction jobs. “This is great news for Burbank. This funding meets the stated goals of the stimulus – to create jobs quickly and improve our transportation system,” said Schiff. “This is a worthwhile investment improving passenger safety at Bob Hope Airport and helping to boost the local economy.”These stimulus funds will be spent quickly as the bill intended. The airport has already started collecting bids on the project, and it expects to award the contract in mid April and work on the project to start in early May. This project will complete the rehabilitation of the Bob Hope Airport taxiway system. The funds will be used to repave and restripe three taxiways at the airport. These taxiways are badly deteriorated with some as old as 20 years. Older deteriorated taxiways have loose gravel and impediments that can damage airplane engines. Repaving these taxiways will reduce the potential hazard to jet engines. Restriping the runways will increase safety by improving visibility for pilots maneuvering on the taxiways.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Yin Yin Huang Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Yin Yin Huang Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Yin Yin Huang for her commitment and service to Alhambra by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Yin Yin has truly surpassed her goal to use music as a tool of positive change in the world,” said Schiff. “She sets a tremendous example of what it means to give back to the community.”Now an acclaimed master piano instructor, Yin Yin was born in Taiwan and began her musical training at the age of ten. At sixteen years old, Yin Yin made her concert debut with the Chinese Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra and soon after with the Formosa Chamber Orchestra. She attained her Bachelor of Arts from the University of Chinese Culture, Taipei, and a Masters in Music from California State University, Los Angeles.Today Yin Yin has approximately thirty years of musical teaching experience, including courses taught in Taiwan before immigrating to the United States, and serves as a faculty member at California State University, Los Angeles. As an international concert pianist, she has worked with artists from all over the world such as the renowned baritone Dr. William Warfield. From East Asia to the Americas, Yin Yin’s musical impact resonates around the world.Yin Yin always wanted to realize her lifelong desire to make a meaningful difference in her community through music. Showing great compassion and a strong sense of civic duty, she organized a series of local charity concerts to raise money for the 1999 Taiwanese earthquake victims, the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attacks victims, Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans musicians, and the 2004 South Asian tsunami relief effort.Yin Yin and her husband have also conducted concerts at local retirement homes, annual midsummer events, and soloist and small ensemble recitals for the past twelve years. In 2005 she established the Acevedo Music & Art Education Foundation, a non-profit organization that enables youths to put their artistic talents to use for benevolent purposes.In recognition of her charitable work, Yin Yin received the International Federation for World Peace’s Ambassador of Peace Award in 2006 and the Pasadena Human Relations Commission’s Model of Unity Award in 2008.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Libby Nardo Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Libby Nardo Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional DistrictWashington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Libby Nardo for her commitment and service to Burbank by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “With such an exhaustive catalog of community commitments, it is no wonder Libby is known among her peers as a model of volunteerism,” said Schiff. “As a proud Burbank resident, I can attest to how lucky we are to have Libby as a member of our community.”When Libby moved to Burbank with her family 55 years ago, her eldest son started school and she started a lifetime of community service. Having begun with Boy & Girl Scouts, Little League, and general church maintenance and bookkeeping, she is now a city-appointed representative of the Senior Citizens’ Board of Burbank, co-leader of St. Finbar Catholic Church’s venerable service group, the Italian Catholic Federation, and an essential member of the Joslyn Senior Center’s leadership team. Libby’s ubiquitous presence is astounding: she serves on numerous boards and committees, volunteers with substance abuse prevention and youth literacy programs, and is a dependable and approachable community leader.Libby is known for her willingness to take on any task, from chairing the Annual Thanksgiving Dinner for over 200 poor and elderly Burbank residents to distributing refreshments at the yearly Senior Prom. Four mornings a week Libby becomes her own travelling food bank. After a quick stop at the nearby market, she sorts and distributes baked goods to local aid and senior centers, churches, and the Salvation Army.She has previously been honored with both a 20-year service award and a Presidential Lifetime Service Award, and I am pleased to applaud her today.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community.Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Melinda Hsia Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Melinda Hsia Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Melinda Hsia for her commitment and service to South Pasadena by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Melinda’s handiwork adorns the entire community, whether as a refurbished classroom or as a floral centerpiece, and her selfless service is an invaluable asset to South Pasadena,” said Schiff. “She has been a tireless advocate of our schools and has fostered a whole new generation of young people determined to give back.” Born in San Francisco, Melinda graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, with a major in Bacteriology and received her Doctor of Pharmacy at the University of Southern California. She began to master the art of multi-tasking while working at the Glendale Adventist Medical Center for 16 years, when in addition to her medical pursuits, she obtained her real estate license and sold houses part-time. By the time her children, Andrew and Chloe, were born and her husband, Tom, retired, Melinda had become a veteran at juggling multiple roles. Outside of her volunteer efforts Melinda is an avid gardener and a pharmacist at Costco Alhambra where she counsels everyone from pediatric to elderly patients.Melinda’s children have inspired her community involvement year after year. She began as a PTA member at their elementary school, helping to coordinate talent shows, musical productions, and promotions. Once her children entered high school, Melinda became the South Pasadena Music Boosters Club President and an active member of several other committees which coordinate fundraisers and competitions to support athletic and school clubs. She is currently South Pasadena High School’s PTSA Vice President of Programs. In this capacity, Melinda coordinates speaker forums such as “Over-the-Counter Drugs and Teens” and the Developing Capable Young People series. In 2007 she received South Pasadena High School’s PTSA Volunteer of the Year award.In addition to her PTSA involvement, Melinda serves her community as repeat President of the South Pasadena Chinese American Club, which raises funds for local public schools and community projects. The American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life, Huntington Library’s Chinese Garden, the South Pasadena Educational Foundation, and the Union Station Foundation’s Adopt-A-Meal program have all benefited from Melinda’s exemplary philanthropic leadership. She has supplemented her already busy schedule with positions on South Pasadena School District’s Real Estate and Budget Advisory Committees and sits on the Board of Directors for the City’s Chamber of Commerce.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Kathryn Perini Named a "Woman of the Year" In the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Kathryn Perini Named a “Woman of the Year” In the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Kathryn Perini for her commitment and service to Temple City by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Few people take the chance to positively impact their community to the extent that Kathy has,” said Schiff. “Kathy has helped develop a new generation of bright and giving Americans, and we are fortunate to have her leadership in our community.”A life long Temple City resident, Kathy earned her degrees at the nearby University of Southern California and returned to her hometown to apply her education towards helping the people she knew and loved. Kathy began as a teacher and a counselor and she eventually became the principal of Emperor Elementary, a California Distinguished School.At Emperor, Kathy has created and maintained cooperative and influential relationships with the community, parents, teachers, and students. With a clear action plan, she has crafted a school of academic scholars who benefit from Character Education as the curriculum’s core. Kathy also shares her insight by working as a consultant, helping regional and nation-wide schools develop not only educated but also responsible citizens. Various esteemed organizations have recognized her with awards, from local PTA groups to the National Character Education Center and the Mattel Foundation Family Learning Program.Throughout her years as an education trailblazer, Kathy has remained devoted to giving back to the community that helped raise her. In 1986 she founded the Temple City Youth Development program to benefit local students unable to afford extensive field study trips and remains the non-profit’s director today. For nearly twenty years Kathy has been a dedicated member of the Tournament of Roses and presently serves on the organization’s Executive Committee.Kathy’s dual roles as educator and community leader were tested in early 2006 when her school fell victim to the violent act of arson. Even in the face of adversity, she rose to the challenge by reaching out to the community for supplies to ensure that all her students’ needs were met, regardless of the devastating classroom destruction. In response, Kathy was happily inundated with resources, support, and encouragement.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Juli Costanzo Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Juli Costanzo Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Juli Costanzo for her commitment and service to San Gabriel by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “As a public servant and a dedicated life-long volunteer, Juli has set a standard for what it means to be a truly devoted citizen,” said Schiff. “We are fortunate to have Juli as a member of our community, and we can all be inspired by her example.”Born in nearby Glendale, California, Juli first moved to San Gabriel in 1965. She began as the Owner and Manager of a local small business, Hammy’s Hamburgers, and went on to become the Executive Director and President of the San Gabriel Chamber of Commerce. She has served as a San Gabriel City Council member since March of 2003. Juli is a past mayor of the City and is also the Vice President of her family’s current small business, Champion Sports Collectables, Inc.Juli’s rise to the apex of San Gabriel leadership can be attributed to her unrelenting devotion to the economic and social welfare of her community. She has served as a board member and event coordinator for numerous local organizations, from the San Gabriel Mission Elementary School Board to the Mission District Mercado and the joint Family Festival and Farmers Market. In her role as a San Gabriel Parks and Recreation Commissioner, Juli helped maintain and improve the integrity of the City’s beloved and historic public spaces.In addition to Juli’s city and small business endeavors, she remains an active community member. Whether assisting the San Gabriel Police Department’s Neighborhood Watch Program and the San Gabriel Community Coordinating Council, supporting the West San Gabriel Valley YMCA and the Mission District Partnership, or just attending an AYSO Region 40 game, Juli is an ideal example of a friendly face and a helping hand.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Joylene Wagner Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Joylene Wagner Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Joylene Wagner for her commitment and service to Glendale by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Joylene has made a tremendous difference in improving the education of our kids,” said Schiff. “Her dedication to our schools and her selfless service to the Glendale community make her well deserving of being named a Woman of the Year.”Joylene and her husband Robert moved to Glendale in 1981, where they both became active in the Adams Hill Homeowners Association. They are very proud of their 3 children, who all attended Glendale schools. Their daughter Meg now teaches children with autism in Fairfax County, Virginia, son Will serves on the staff of Senator Arlen Specter, and son Nick will graduate from Glendale High School this year.Since 1985, in addition to singing in the First United Methodist Church choir, Joylene has split her time between volunteering in the schools and community and working part-time teaching children’s choral music either at church, in Glendale elementary schools, or at the Los Angeles Children’s Chorus. Her community involvement has included serving on the boards of Glendale Healthy Kids, Verdugo Workforce Investment, Los Angeles County School Trustees Association, and the League of Women Voters, as well as on the Glendale Arts and Culture Commission.Before her election to the Glendale Unified School District Board of Education in 2005, Joylene worked locally as a substitute teacher and completed graduate work in education. She has since served as the Board’s President, working to find ways to enrich and increase student learning through arts instruction and career-technical education opportunities. In the face of drastic state funding cuts and in an effort to ensure budgetary support for educational priorities, Joylene has facilitated creative, courageous, and cooperative community conversations about what is most essential for student success.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 House Approves Schiff's Legislation to "Fingerprint" Nuclear Material Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Approves Schiff’s Legislation to “Fingerprint” Nuclear MaterialLegislation will improve technology to track down nuclear traffickers and identify sources of nuclear material Washington, DC – Today, the House passed Rep. Adam Schiff’s Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act (H.R. 730). The legislation will strengthen efforts in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material, and will also encourage the President to negotiate international agreements to govern international nuclear forensics activities.“If we can determine the source of nuclear material, we can better attack smuggling networks and plug the security holes that allow deadly material to be obtained in the first place,” said Schiff. “Nuclear states like North Korea may be deterred from transferring nuclear material if they know it can be traced back to them.”In the event of nuclear material being intercepted at a border crossing or in a sting operation, there may be few clues to assist investigators in determining where the bomb or material originated. The radioactive material itself may be the only lead. Each sample of nuclear material has an elemental fingerprint that can help determine its source. However, current efforts to trace materials are often incomplete because the technology is still in development and information on foreign reactors and stockpiles is not available. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act will authorize the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center at DHS to coordinate the government’s nuclear forensics efforts and encourage technicians and scientists to enter the field. It will also call upon the President to lead international efforts to share nuclear forensics data.Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on securing vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. Last year, Rep. Schiff co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security, which seeks to identify the most urgent vulnerabilities and take immediate action to improve nuclear safeguards, secure fissile materials, and prevent the misuse of sensitive nuclear materials and technologies. In the last Congress, Congressman Schiff introduced several bipartisan bills which would reduce the threat of a nuclear disaster. He introduced legislation that would prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. Rep. Schiff is a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, the House Appropriations Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Dr. Sonya Mkryan Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Dr. Sonya Mkryan Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Dr. Sonya Mkryan for her commitment and service to Altadena by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Sonya’s life story is a testament to the tenacity and generosity of the human spirit, and her steadfast dedication and selfless service are an invaluable addition to the legacy of Women’s History Month,” said Schiff. Sonya was born in Sanjak, the French mandate of Syria, and emigrated at age ten to Soviet Armenia with her parents and three siblings. By the time she traveled from Armenia to the United States with her husband and three children in 1979, she had obtained a PhD in Technical Studies and worked for two decades as a scientist and researcher at the Armenian Academy of Sciences. Her first job in America was as a mechanical inspector for Robertshaw Industrial Products.As an educator and geophysicist, Sonya has taught in the Pasadena Unified School District was a professor of physics at Polytechnic Institute. For the past twenty-three years she has contributed her knowledge and experience to the County of Los Angeles’ Department of Public Social Services in hopes of serving society for the better.A woman of multiple talents, Sonya is also an artist and a writer. Over the last twenty years she has held several solo shows and has actively participated in many group exhibitions. Aside from scientific articles published in the Russian, she has published six books of poetry and short stories: five in Armenian and the sixth in English. She is a member of the Armenian Writers Union of California and is an honorable member of the International Society of Poets.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Catherine Wills Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Catherine Wills Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional DistrictWashington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Catherine Wills of Monterey Park for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Whether as a homicide detective or a mentor for at-risk youth, Cathy devotes her time and energy well beyond what could be asked of her, and our community is safer and a better place as a result of her efforts,” said Schiff. “I thank Cathy for all she has done, and it was an honor to name her ‘Woman of the Year.’”Cathy was infused with the spirit of volunteerism from a very young age. As a young girl she watched her older sister, Charlotte, transform a personal struggle with spina bifida into success as a community activist. Cathy grew to share her father’s concern for social issues such as global poverty, illiteracy, and health care, and she joined Charlotte as a devoted advocate for the physically disabled.Cathy’s thirty-plus years of local community outreach include serving as a Los Angeles County Deputy Sheriff, where she became the first woman assigned to the Detective Division’s Homicide Bureau and spent her free time mentoring at-risk girls as a Pasadena YWCA “Big Sister.” Following retirement, Cathy has dedicated herself to the City and people of Monterey Park. She served on the board of directors of the Heritage Manor Convalescent Home, was a long-time appointee to the City’s Personnel Board, and wrote a community column for the local newspaper.Armed with a lifetime of experience and gumption, Cathy faced her husband’s recent bouts with cancer head on and continues to support the City of Hope National Cancer Research Center. Her current roles include serving on city and county Election boards, volunteering as a member of the Soroptimist Club, and advocating for San Gabriel Valley causes as a founding member of the Concerned Citizens of Monterey Park. Cathy also honors outstanding volunteers as co-chair of the United Democratic Club’s annual “People Who Make a Difference” award.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who – through their work or volunteerism – have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.24.09	03.24.09 Brenda Galloway Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Tuesday, March 24, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Brenda Galloway Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional DistrictWashington, D.C. – On Saturday at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Brenda Galloway of Pasadena for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.”“Brenda’s impact in Pasadena has been nothing short of astounding, and she has volunteered her time and talent in ever increasing abundance,” said Schiff. “She shows great care and dedication in all her efforts and we are grateful for the tremendous difference she has made in the life of our community.”Originally from Kentucky, Brenda has lived in Pasadena with her husband Bill for the last forty years. Together they run the family business, Summit Enterprises, which invests in residential commercial properties in the San Gabriel Valley and trains local youth for careers in real estate. A tireless community leader, Brenda has devoted herself to improving the region’s arts and educational systems with a blend of energy, enthusiasm, and humility. Her volunteer work began as a young girl running school paper drives and has grown to include an astounding collection of Southern California non-profit organizations.In addition to serving on the Board of Directors for the Pasadena YMCA and the La Salle High School Board of Trustees, she has been involved the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Foundation, the L.A. County Commission of Children and Families, the Pasadena Police Department Olympic Committee, Jack & Jill of America, and the Jackie Robinson Memorial Celebration. She is particularly active with the CASA Glamour Gown program, which provides prom gowns and accessories to girls in foster care throughout Los Angeles County.While devoting herself to these great organizations, Brenda and her husband have also hosted charitable events at their home for many nonprofit groups, such as the Pasadena Playhouse, the Pasadena AIDS Service Center, and the National Park Service’s African American Experience Fund. Their generosity extended to Pasadena City College as well, with whom they endowed a Sculpture Garden Plaza in 2000.Mrs. Galloway’s charitable efforts have garnered much deserved recognition in the community. She has been awarded with a lifetime membership to the NAACP for her membership recruitment and fundraising efforts, received a Campus and Community Special Recognition award from PCC in 1999, and was deemed a “Contemporary History Maker” in 2003 by the Pasadena Museum of History. Most recently, the Pasadena Playhouse honored Brenda for her work in the promotion of cultural diversity at the third annual Sheldon Epps Theatrical Diversity Project Celebration, of which she is a founding member.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.19.09	03.19.09 Schiff Introduces Bill to Equalize Funding for Prevention and Suppression of Crime Thursday, March 19, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Bill to Equalize Funding for Prevention and Suppression of Crime Bill reauthorizes COPS program and KIDS program at parityWASHINGTON, DC – In order to make our communities safer and ensure our youth are on a path to success, Rep. Schiff introduced the “COPS and KIDS Act” (HR 1568). The measure will balance funding for crime fighting and enforcement efforts with funding for prevention and intervention efforts for troubled, at-risk youth. The bill calls for a substantial investment of $2 billion a year in prevention and intervention efforts, creating funding parity with enforcement programs which will also be increased to $2 billion dollars a year. “The best approach to public safety makes a solid investment in prevention and matches with an equal investment in enforcement. The COPS and KIDS Act does exactly that.” said Schiff. The bill calls for an increase in funding for the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, which provides critical resources for crime fighting and enforcement efforts. For nearly 15 years, COPS funding has enabled local law enforcement to invest in innovative policing approaches that incorporate community involvement and coordination. COPS combats crime and violence through suppression and enforcement efforts. The bill also directs the COPS funding to be equally matched with funding for the Key Investments in Developmental Services (KIDS) Act, which invests in proven programs to prevent crime before it happens through community based prevention efforts. KIDS funding, first authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA) of 1974, has helped modernize the United States juvenile justice system by incentivizing the establishment of juvenile courts premised on best practices, reducing recidivism through evidence based interventions, and by keeping kids out of trouble to begin with.
03.17.09	03.17.09 Schiff, Radanovich Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Recognizing the Armenian Genocide Tuesday, March 17, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Radanovich Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Recognizing the Armenian GenocideWashington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced the introduction of a resolution recognizing and commemorating the Armenian Genocide. The resolution calls on the President and the U.S. Government to properly recognize the atrocities that occurred in Armenia beginning in 1915, and which resulted in 1.5 million deaths, as genocide. Rep. Schiff authored the resolution with George Radanovich (R-CA), Frank Pallone (D-NJ) and Mark Kirk (R-IL).“The facts of history are clear, well documented, and non-negotiable. One and a half million Armenians were deliberately murdered in the first genocide of the 20th century. If we are to lead in the effort to stop the genocide in Darfur and prevent future atrocities, we must be willing to condemn genocide whenever and wherever it occurs." said Schiff. “It has never served our national interest to become complicit in the denial of genocide, and it never will. While there are still some survivors left, we have a compelling moral obligation to speak plainly about the past.”Last week, Rep. Schiff and the other coauthors of the resolution wrote to President Obama lauding him for his principled record of recognizing the Armenian Genocide. The letter asked the President to make a strong statement of genocide recognition on April 24th – as President Reagan did more than 20 years ago. “The Affirmation of the U.S. Record on the Armenian Genocide” resolution has the bipartisan support of 77 original co-sponsors in the House of Representatives. It calls on the President to “ensure that the foreign policy of the United States reflects appropriate understanding” of the “Armenian Genocide” and to “accurately characterize the systematic and deliberate annihilation of 1,500,000 Armenians as genocide.” The Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than 20 nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia, as well as the European Parliament. Rep. Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.12.09	03.12.09 Schiff Introduces Legislation to Make Background Checks for Volunteers Working with Children Reliable and Accessible Thursday, March 12, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Legislation to Make Background Checks for Volunteers Working with Children Reliable and Accessible WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today introduced legislation to create a nationally-accessible background check system for youth-serving organizations. The Child Protection Improvements Act of 2009, builds on a highly successful pilot program to ensure that youth serving groups such as Big Brothers, Big Sisters and Boys and Girls Clubs can perform quick, accurate, and affordable background checks on prospective volunteers or employees. The bill is being introduced with Reps. John Conyers (D-MI) and Mike Rogers (R-MI) as original cosponsors.“We are fortunate to live in a country where millions of volunteers generously make time to participate in community service,” said Schiff, a former national Board Member of Big Brothers and Big Sisters of America. “But with so many volunteers working with children we need to ensure that child predators are not preying on innocent children through the guise of volunteerism. Children’s safety is paramount, and we need to make certain that those working with our youth have been thoroughly and properly screened.”The pre-existing Child Safety Pilot program performed over 37,000 fingerprint-based Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) background checks from 2003 to 2008. In 6.1 percent of cases, over 2000 individuals, potential volunteers were found to have a criminal record of concern, including very serious crimes such as sexual abuse of minors, assault, murder, and major drug offenses. The Child Safety Pilot program screened a single individual with felony convictions in 5 states and multiple aliases. Were it not for access to fingerprint based checks, this individual may have had direct and unsupervised access to a child and the mentoring organization would have had no idea of their background. In many cases, only a fingerprint based national background check could reveal these criminal histories.The legislation introduced today is the product of extended negotiations with many concerned parties to create a program that protects children while remaining affordable for small non-profit mentoring organizations. The bill includes significant protections for the privacy of volunteers to ensure that volunteers’ criminal histories are kept private. The individual applying to volunteer will have the opportunity to correct any errors or misstatements in his or her record. More specifically the Child Protection Improvements Act will: Create universal access to nationwide background searches, by establishing a criminal background check designee to process background checks on prospective employees and volunteers for youth-serving organizations; Create “one-stop” functionality where a local organization could elect to obtain both a state and FBI search through the central clearinghouse; Keep the fee as low as possible for non-profit organizations, no more than the actual cost; and Ensures that individuals that are subject to background checks can request their full criminal histories and challenge their accuracy and completeness, and receive a prompt response from the jurisdiction holding the records.
03.11.09	03.11.09 Schiff, Radanovich, Pallone, and Kirk Commend President for His Principled Record of Recognition of the Armenian Genocide Wednesday, March 11, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Radanovich, Pallone, and Kirk Commend President for His Principled Record of Recognition of the Armenian Genocide Urge Strong Statement of Recognition on the Upcoming 94th AnniversaryWashington, D.C. – In advance of the upcoming 94th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA), George Radanovich (R-CA), Frank Pallone (D-NJ) and Mark Kirk (R-IL) wrote a letter to President Barack Obama commending him on his record of supporting the truth about the Armenian Genocide and urging the President to make a strong statement of recognition on April 24th. “Throughout his career, President Obama has always demonstrated a profound understanding of history and the moral courage to speak plainly about the horrors of genocide,” said Schiff. “We applaud his strong recognition of the Armenian Genocide as a Senator, and look to him for continued strong leadership on this issue as President.” “Over the years, the President of the United States, regardless of political party, has done a great disservice by refusing to properly recognize the Armenian Genocide,” said Radanovich. “As a proud representative of the Armenian American community, and co-author of the Armenian Genocide Resolution, I commend President Obama for his previous commitment to the truth and I eagerly await the fulfillment of his promises to recognize the Genocide as President.”“As a senator and as a candidate, President Obama demonstrated a clear record of supporting recognition of the Armenian Genocide,” said Pallone. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, I am hopeful that both the President and Congress will not waiver in their efforts to discuss the past openly and honestly.”“As a U.S. Senator and as a presidential candidate, President Obama made unprecedented commitments to recognize the Armenian Genocide,” Kirk said. “Knowing his personal commitment to ending genocide and promoting human rights, we are hopeful President Obama will keep his promise.”The full text of the letter is below. March 10, 2009President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20500Dear Mr. President,As we approach the upcoming 94th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide on April 24, we want to thank you for the courage you have always shown in characterizing properly the slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians from 1915-1923 as genocide. No president in the postwar era has come into office with a stronger understanding of the historic facts of the genocide, or with a greater track record of speaking plainly on this terrible chapter in the past.As a United States Senator, your record on the Armenian Genocide was clear and unequivocal. In 2005 and 2006 you joined many of your colleagues in asking President Bush to refer to the slaughter of Armenians as genocide, noting that “[i]t is in the best interests of our nation and the entire global community to remember the past and learn from these crimes against humanity to ensure that they are never repeated.”In 2006 you wrote to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice in the wake of the recall from Yerevan of Ambassador John Evans for using the term “genocide” to describe the events of 1915-23. In your letter you described the official U.S. position on the genocide as “untenable” and reminded the Secretary that “the occurrence of the Armenian genocide in 1915 is not an ‘allegation,’ a ‘personal opinion,’ or a ‘point of view.’ Supported by overwhelming evidence, it is a widely documented fact.”In questions submitted to Ambassador-designate Marie Yovanovich last year, you pressed her on the issue of genocide recognition, specifically asking her what steps she would take to recognize the genocide and what actions the Department of State was undertaking to press for Turkish recognition of the crimes committed by their Ottoman forebears. Last April, in a statement printed in the Congressional Record, you pledged to “continue to push for the acknowledgement of the Armenian genocide.”As a presidential candidate, you were also forthright in discussing your support for genocide recognition, saying that “America deserves a leader who speaks truthfully about the Armenian Genocide and responds forcefully to all genocides.” We agree with you completely.During your upcoming trip to Turkey and in discussions with your advisors over how to commemorate the events of 1915-23, you will doubtless be counseled by some to continue the practice of avoiding the truth in favor of short-term political expediency. We do not minimize Ankara’s threats of adverse action when you recognize the genocide, or when Congress takes action to formally recognize the genocide, but we believe that our alliance is strong enough to withstand the truth.Elie Wiesel has described the denial of genocide as the final stage of genocide – a double killing. Sadly, our nation’s foreign policy has, for too long, abetted this denial. As you told Secretary Rice in your letter about the sacking of Ambassador Evans, “when State Department instructions are such that an ambassador must engage in strained reasoning – or even outright falsehood – that defies a common sense interpretation of events in order to follow orders, then it is time to revisit the State Department’s policy guidance on that issue.”Mr. President, you have demonstrated time and again your understanding of the importance to Armenian-Americans of formal American recognition of the crime that was committed against their parents, grandparents and great-grandparents. Their pain is not unlike that of American Jews, who live each day with the memory of the Holocaust, and African-Americans, whose view of themselves has been colored by the legacy of slavery and Jim Crow. But, of course, the importance of speaking unequivocally about a matter as grave as genocide is a human rights imperative affecting us all. Whether it is today’s Sudanese government or yesterday’s Ottoman Empire, the perpetrators of genocide, as well as the victims, must know that the United States will not shrink from confronting the truth. Sincerely,ADAM B. SCHIFF Member of CongressGEORGE RADANOVICHMember of Congress FRANK PALLONE, JR. Member of CongressMARK STEVEN KIRKMember of Congress
03.10.09	03.10.09 Schiff Calls on President to Help Economy by Protecting Copyright Based Goods and Services Tuesday, March 10, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Calls on President to Help Economy by Protecting Copyright Based Goods and ServicesWashington, D.C. – Recognizing that new technology is making it increasingly easier for thieves to illegally reproduce and sell copyrighted goods and services, Congressman Adam Schiff, Co-Chair of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus sent a letter to President Obama today requesting he act to protect this vital sector of our economy. The letter highlighted the fact that copyrighted goods and services account for $100 billion a year in exports but have come under increasing attack by international pirates selling them illegally on the black market. The letter was cosigned by the other Co-Chairs of the caucus, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Senator Orrin G. Hatch (R-UT) and Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA).“In an increasingly knowledge-based economy, a crucial component of our nation’s competitive strength is the creation of copyright-based goods and services,” the co-chairs wrote in a letter to the President. “This reality is even clearer now as the American automobile industry, once the prime example of 20th century American ingenuity and prowess in manufacturing exports, stands on the brink of collapse. By contrast, the American ‘assembly line’ of the 21st century is made up of the creation, production, and export of recorded music, motion pictures, software products, and books, accounting for 6% of our nation’s GDP. Indeed, the U.S. copyright industry is one of the few bright spots in our economy and will serve as a key cornerstone in the effort to rebuild our nation.”The full text of the letter is below. March 10, 2009President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NWWashington, D.C.Dear Mr. President:As Co-Chairs of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, a bipartisan and bicameral group comprised of 70 members of the United States Congress, we urge you to ensure the protection of a vital sector of our economy. In an increasingly knowledge-based economy, a crucial component of our nation’s competitive strength is the creation of copyright-based goods and services. This reality is even clearer now as the American automobile industry, once the prime example of 20th century American ingenuity and prowess in manufacturing exports, stands on the brink of collapse. By contrast, the American “assembly line” of the 21st century is made up of the creation, production, and export of recorded music, motion pictures, software products, and books, accounting for 6% of our nation’s GDP. Indeed, the U.S. copyright industry is one of the few bright spots in our economy and will serve as a key cornerstone in the effort to rebuild our nation.International markets are vital to this new cornerstone of our economy, with foreign sales and exports of copyrighted materials exceeding $100 billion per year and accounting for 50% of the revenues of these industries. This strong export base sustains well-paid American jobs, from set designers to makeup artists in Los Angeles to book editors in New York; from musicians in Nashville to software developers in Seattle. Ensuring the continued growth and prosperity of our copyright industries must be a central component of our national economic policy as our nation struggles to stave off a long and deep recession. Unfortunately, this vibrant sector of the U.S. economy is at great risk due to widespread international piracy – the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and sale of American made copyrighted goods. While these industries continue to develop a broad range of content and innovative ways to deliver that content to consumers, the absence of adequate copyright laws and enforcement in the online environment in many countries is undermining many of the evolving online business models of these creative industries.Pirates offering and distributing pirated products can now easily access almost any part of the world in the increasingly globalized marketplace. Consequently, the U.S. copyright industries face the daunting task of trying to enforce their legal rights in an online world where borders and distances have decreasing practical significance, undermining the viability of these critical industries and exacerbating our international trade deficit. Sustaining and expanding the overseas sale of American copyright-based goods and services should be a national objective of the highest importance and we strongly urge you to direct your Administration to establish as a high priority combating copyright piracy abroad. Several important tools, such as the United States Trade Representative’s annual evaluation of intellectual property rights protection by our trading partners, are at your disposal and should be used aggressively against countries which fail to provide adequate and effective intellectual property protection of American copyrighted goods and services. Last year, Congress adopted a number of new laws designed to strengthen our country’s ability to fight the theft of intellectual property, most notably the “PRO-IP” bill. During the 111th Congress, we will be considering additional measures, including trade-specific legislation, to reduce the theft of U.S. intellectual property around the world. Piracy is no longer the province of teenagers downloading songs from peer-to-peer networks. Instead, it has become a multibillion dollar challenge to our economy – a challenge that we must meet. We stand ready to work with you and your Administration to achieve this goal. Sincerely, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse Senator Orrin G. HatchRep. Adam B. SchiffRep. Bob Goodlatte
03.05.09	03.05.09 Schiff Requests Review of Failed Government Oversight of IndyMac Bank Thursday, March 05, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Requests Review of Failed Government Oversight of IndyMac Bank Lack of proper oversight may have cost billions of taxpayer dollars Washington, D.C. – Troubled by a report that federal regulators ignored problems at IndyMac Bank which may have cost taxpayers billions of dollars, Representative Adam Schiff has requested Congressional action. In a letter to Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank and Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services Chairman Jose Serrano, Rep. Schiff requested they conduct a review of the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS). “While the FDIC acts as an essential safety net, the federal government also has a responsibility to the taxpayers and to depositors to protect banks from taking unnecessary risks that will lead them toward failure,” Schiff wrote in the letter to Chairmen Frank and Serrano. “I am greatly concerned that the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) which acts as primary regulator of all federal and many state-chartered thrift institutions has failed on multiple occasions to perform their mission and protect the public and banks from financial ruin.”Last week the Treasury Department's Inspector General released a report that heavily criticized the OTS for missing signs that IndyMac was growing too quickly with loans that were poorly underwritten. The report stated that the OTS should have taken enforcement action against IndyMac more than two years before the bank was finally seized by the FDIC in July of last year.The full text of the letter is below. Chairman Barney FrankFinancial Services Committee2129 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515Chairman Jose SerranoAppropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General GovernmentB-300 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515 March 5, 2009Dear Chairmen Frank and Serrano,The American public is justifiably concerned about the security of their savings. At a time when many have lost significant investments in real estate and the stock market, the knowledge that our money is secure in FDIC insured banks is invaluable. However, since the start of the recession, fifteen months ago, forty-one banks have collapsed, double the number that failed in the previous eight years. While the FDIC acts as an essential safety net, the federal government also has a responsibility to the taxpayers and to depositors to protect banks from taking unnecessary risks that will lead them toward failure. I am greatly concerned that the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) which acts as primary regulator of all federal and many state-chartered thrift institutions has failed on multiple occasions to perform their mission and protect the public and banks from financial ruin.As you know, on July 11, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) took over the IndyMac Bank to preserve its assets and protect insured depositors until a final resolution could be made. Last week, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Inspector General (IG) published the results of an audit on the failure of IndyMac Bank. The report, of which I am sure you are well aware, criticizes the OTS for neglecting to take aggressive action to stop IndyMac’s high-risk business strategy which was overly reliant on the use of Alt-A and other nontraditional loan products with insufficient underwriting, credit concentrations in residential real estate in the California and Florida markets and heavy reliance on costly funds borrowed from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and from brokered deposits. Such negligence will cost the federal government billions and has left thousands of Americans, many of them my constituents, with over $240 million in personal losses. IndyMac was the third-largest bank failure in U.S. history and as of December 31, 2008, the FDIC estimated that the bank’s failure will cost the FDIC $10.7 billion, well over $4 billion to $8 billion cost projected immediately after the FDIC’s takeover. According to the IG’s report, IndyMac was not the first instance where the OTS failed to enforce its regulations; a similar lack of oversight lead to the collapse of NetBank in Alpharetta, GA. I am somewhat reassured to see that OTS is taking responsibility for its carelessness, and has committed to improving its processes based on the lessons learned from the failure of IndyMac. However, I believe Congress must take an active role in helping OTS fix its broken procedures so that it can again properly regulate financial institutions and help banks avoid collapse and financial decline.As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government and as a concerned Member of Congress, I ask that both the authorizing and appropriating committees conduct a thorough review of the OTS and its processes and identify actions that may be implemented to improve the quality of its supervisory response to thrift high risk activities. After seeing first hand the chaos and financial burden IndyMac’s collapse caused thousands of depositors and the American taxpayer, I do not want the failure of OTS’s regulatory system to lead to more unnecessary losses.Thank you for your consideration.Sincerely, ADAM B SCHIFFMember of Congress
03.04.09	03.04.09 Schiff Introduces Bill to Use Military Courts-Martial to Try Guantanamo Detainees Wednesday, March 04, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Bill to Use Military Courts-Martial to Try Guantanamo Detainees Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced legislation that will close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and make use of the military courts-martial to prosecute detainees who are unlawful enemy combatants. Rep. Schiff’s Terrorist Detainees Procedures Act would ensure our national security needs are met and establish a level of due process that is consistent with our adherence to the rule of law. Through the use of military courts-martial for many of the detainees, the United States will demonstrate to the rest of the world its commitment to human rights in granting terrorism suspects the same due process we guarantee our own troops when they are brought up on court martial charges. “The military courts have a long history of balancing the national security needs of the country with the need to provide a fair process to the accused,” said Schiff. “I believe it is the best forum to adjudicate whether those detained at Guantanamo are unlawful combatants, and is also an appropriate venue for their prosecution.” First, the Terrorist Detainees Procedures Act would require that the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay be closed by December 31, 2009. The bill would replace the flawed Combatants Status Review Tribunals with a new status review procedure for all detainees. This review would be conducted by a panel of three military judges using established courts-martial procedures to determine separately if each detainee should be designated and then prosecuted as an unlawful enemy combatant. If the detainee is determined to be an unlawful combatant, the bill would require that they be: transferred to a military or civilian detention facility in the U.S., charged with a violation of U.S. or international law, and tried by courts-martial or in federal court; transferred to an international tribunal for trial; transferred to a NATO-run detention facility or another country, provided they will not be tortured; or held in accordance with the law of armed conflict until either the end of hostilities directly related to the person’s initial detention, or such time as the person is determined to no longer be a threat. In an effort to avoid a similar situation in the future, the measure also requires the President to submit a report to Congress containing recommendations on any Federal laws that need to be changed in order to implement a comprehensive detainee policy that addresses the apprehension, detention, and trial of individuals captured or apprehended in connection with armed conflicts and counterterrorism operations. Rep. Schiff was the first in Congress to introduce legislation addressing the status of enemy combatants in 2002 and has introduced numerous bills on the issue subsequently. Rep. Schiff is a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, the Judiciary Committee, and the Appropriations Committee. He also served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles for six years successfully trying national security cases.
02.26.09	02.26.09 Schiff Secures Funds to Improve and Increase the Use of DNA and Forensic Technology Thursday, February 26, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Secures Funds to Improve and Increase the Use of DNA and Forensic Technology Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff announced that the House approved funding for three important efforts to use technology to take murderers and rapists off the streets: a local forensic DNA laboratory in the City of Glendale, a forensic science institute at California State University, Los Angeles, and a federal grant program to reduce DNA evidence backlogs. The funds were requested by Rep. Schiff and included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act (H.R. 1105), which passed late yesterday. “DNA matching technology is one of the greatest advancements in forensic science since the fingerprint,” said Schiff. “The funding in this bill will help take violent felons off the street by speeding up DNA analysis through the establishment of a new lab in Glendale and by expanding training programs for DNA analysts in our region.”The bill included $1 million for the City of Glendale for a Forensic DNA Laboratory. The City of Glendale has a backlog of almost 1,000 cases with preserved DNA evidence. This funding will establish a DNA center within the Glendale police facility which will provide a timely return of DNA analysis, crime evidence, and cold case evidence. While the DNA lab will be located in Glendale, it will also service the neighboring cities of Burbank and Pasadena and will be capable of accepting evidence from many other regional communities as well. The bill appropriated $1 million for Cal State, Los Angeles for its California Forensic Science Institute (CFSI). This funding will enable CFSI to become a training and technical support center for local public crime laboratories in California. Cal State will work with the LA County Sheriff’s Department to train new DNA analysts who will work to help reduce the DNA backlog in our region. Additionally, Rep. Schiff played an integral role in securing full funding, $151 million, for the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Reduction Program to process DNA evidence. The U.S. Department of Justice has estimated that there are at least 221,000 rape kits currently in storage that have not been analyzed. Los Angeles holds about 10,000 of those backlog kits, among the highest backlogs in the nation. This funding will provide federal grants to state and local governments over the next six years for DNA analysis of unprocessed evidence in rape cases.“This funding will help clear the backlog of DNA samples and stop predators before they strike again,” said Schiff. “These funds will go a long way toward finally solving hundreds or thousands of cold sexual assaults cases – ultimately making our neighborhoods safer.”
02.25.09	02.25.09 Schiff Secures Funding for Local Initiatives to Help Put People to Work Wednesday, February 25, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Secures Funding for Local Initiatives to Help Put People to Work Funding for local infrastructure project and job assistance centers passes HouseWashington, D.C. –Today, Rep. Schiff announced the House passed the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act (H.R. 1105) which sets funding levels for the 2009 federal budget. The bill works in conjunction with the economic recovery package, making investments that address the country’s immediate needs while investing in our long-term economic growth. The bill included vital funding secured by Rep. Schiff for local projects that help train workers and create jobs in our neighborhoods. Rep. Schiff helped secure more than $1.8 million for a major railroad improvement and safety upgrade project underway in San Gabriel. He also directed more than $98,000 each to the Verdugo Workforce Investment Board and the Valley Economic Center which provide job training and job placement assistance for workers and aid to local small businesses.“This bill, like the economic recovery package recently signed into law, creates jobs through infrastructure spending and takes important steps to transform our economy,” said Schiff. “We need to get our economy moving again and this bill is a part of the blueprint for getting America back on track. I agreed with the President last night when he said, ‘We will rebuild, we will recover, and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before.’ This bill will help us meet that goal.” H.R. 1105 included $1.8 million in transportation funds for the Alameda Corridor East in San Gabriel, which will help construct a 2-mile railroad trench for trains to travel underneath roadway bridges in the City of San Gabriel. The current railway has accounted for three crossing collisions, with one motorist killed in 2002. Pedestrian safety will be improved for students at nearby schools. The project will eliminate an estimated 420 hours of vehicle delay each day at four crossings, the busiest of which, San Gabriel Blvd., carries 37,500 vehicles per day. This project will help improve air quality by cutting hundreds of tons per year of cancer-causing air toxins and greenhouse emissions by eliminating idling cars and trucks at the crossings. The project will create 8,964 jobs and is eligible for additional federal funds included in the recovery package. The Alameda Corridor-East Construction Authority has already secured commitments of approximately 70% of the project’s cost in non-Federal funds. Additionally, funding was included for the Verdugo Workforce Investment Board, which provides business assistance, job training and job placement services to residents and businesses in the Burbank, Glendale, and La Canada region. Many of the businesses receiving assistance from the Verdugo Workforce Investment Board are struggling to remain out of debt. The staff of the board conducts outreach, analyzes company needs, and refers the company’s management to resources and services to help companies remain stable. The board focuses on small businesses of 25 employees or less and assists local businesses, employees, and job seekers. The Valley Economic Center (VEC) will use the funding to operate its Women’s Business Center (WBC) which provides technical assistance and access to capital to emerging and existing female entrepreneurs at its satellite facility in Glendale. In 2007, the VEC and WBC provided consulting to 672 clients, trained 5,138 clients, created 44 start-ups, and created 44 new jobs. “This funding will help give local businesses the tools they need to succeed and thrive, and will help strengthen our local economy,” said Schiff. “The Verdugo Workforce Investment Board and the Valley Economic Center have proven track records in helping small businesses, workers, and entrepreneurs succeed in an increasingly competitive marketplace.”
02.13.09	02.13.09 House Passes Recovery and Reinvestment Act to Create Jobs Through Infrastructure Investment and Tax Cuts Friday, February 13, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Passes Recovery and Reinvestment Act to Create Jobs Through Infrastructure Investment and Tax Cuts Washington, D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today voted to pass the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, a bill that is designed to get our economy moving again and transform it for long-term growth and stability. The compromise package of $787 billion is estimated to create or save 3.5 million jobs nationwide over the next two years, including close to 400,000 jobs in California and 7,700 jobs in the 29th Congressional District, according to a White House report. “I hear from constituents every day who are hurting from the current economic crisis,” said Schiff. “We need swift action to help put people back to work and to ensure needed assistance is available to keep families afloat in these turbulent times. This bill creates jobs through infrastructure spending, provides tax relief to nearly everyone, and takes important steps to transform our economy.” This legislation assists state and local governments with their budget shortfalls to prevent deep cuts in basic services such as health, education, and law enforcement. It provides 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut and invests in roads, bridges, mass transit, energy efficient buildings and other infrastructure projects. It also provides funding for science and technology to tackle urgent national challenges like climate change, cancer research and decreasing our dependence on foreign oil. Below is a more in-depth review of some of the provisions included in this critical stimulus measure: Financial Assistance to those in Need: Provides immediate and sustained tax relief to 95 percent of American workers through the Making Work Pay Tax Cut, a refundable tax credit of up to $400 per worker ($800 per couple filing jointly), phasing out completely at $200,000 for couples filing jointly and $100,000 for single filers; Helps first-time homebuyers and strengthens the housing market by enhancing the current credit for first-time home purchases with the removal of the repayment requirement; Continues through December 2009 the extended unemployment benefits program (which provides up to 33 weeks of extended benefits) thereby helping an additional 3.5 million jobless workers; Increases unemployment benefits for 20 million jobless workers by $25 per week; and Provides funding to help workers find jobs, including $4 billion for job training. Economic Growth through Science and Technology: Provides a total of $30 billion for a smart power grid, advanced battery technology, and energy efficiency initiatives, which will create nearly 500,000 jobs; Provides $1 billion for NASA, including $400 million to put more scientists to work doing climate change research; Supports U.S. development of advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems through loans and grants to help transform the way automobiles are powered; Provides $20 billion in tax incentives for renewable energy and energy efficiency over the next 10 years; Includes a three-year extension of the production tax credit (PTC) for electricity derived from wind (through 2012) and for electricity derived from biomass, geothermal, hydropower, landfill gas, waste-to-energy, and marine facilities (through 2013); Provides a tax credit of up to $7,500 for families that purchase plug-in hybrid vehicles to spur the next generation of American cars; Includes clean renewable energy bonds for State and local governments; and Establishes a new manufacturing investment tax credit for investment in advanced energy facilities, such as facilities that manufacture components for the production of renewable energy, advanced battery technology and other innovative next-generation green technologies. Improving Education and Preventing Teacher Layoffs: Prevents teacher layoffs and cutbacks in education and other key services, by establishing a $53.6 billion State Fiscal Stabilization Fund, including $40.6 billion for local school districts using existing funding formulas, which can be used to prevent cutbacks, prevent layoffs, school modernization, or for other purposes; Provides $13 billion for Title I grants to help disadvantaged kids reach high academic standards – ensuring that in this period of tight state and local budgets these vital services are maintained; Provides $12.2 billion for grants for IDEA (Special Education) to increase the federal share of these costs, and prevent these mandatory costs from forcing states to cut other areas of education; Helps more than 4 million additional students attend college with a new, partially refundable $2,500 tax credit for families; Increases the maximum Pell Grant by $500, for a maximum of $5,350 in 2009 and $5,550 in 2010; and Adds $200 million to the vital College Work-Study program. Investments in Infrastructure: Provides $29 billion for modernizing roads and bridges, which will create 835,000 jobs; Requires states to obligate at least half of the highway/bridge funding within 120 days; Provides $8.4 billion for investments in transit and $8 billion for investment in high-speed rail; Includes funds for new constructing new commuter and light rail networks and purchasing buses and equipment needed to increase public transportation; and Provides billions to modernize federal and other public infrastructure with investments that lead to long-term energy cost savings. Advancing Efficiency in Health Care and Securing Coverage: Provides $19 billion to accelerate adoption of Health Information Technology (HIT) systems, otherwise known as electronic health records, to help doctors and hospitals save billions of dollars, reduce medical errors and improve quality of care; Protects health care coverage for millions of Americans during this recession, by providing an estimated $87 billion over the next two years in additional federal matching funds to help states maintain their Medicaid programs in the face of massive state budget shortfalls; Provides a 60% subsidy for COBRA premiums for up to 9 months to help laid-off workers maintain their employer’s health insurance; and Provides $8.5 billion for NIH, including expanding good jobs in biomedical research to study diseases such as Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, cancer, and heart disease.
02.12.09	02.12.09 Schiff, Bono Mack Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Address Gang Violence Thursday, February 12, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Bono Mack Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Address Gang ViolenceBill provides substantial resources for prevention and enhances tools to go after offendersWashington, D.C. – This afternoon, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mary Bono-Mack (R-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation to halt gang violence. The Gang Prevention, Intervention and Suppression Act (H.R. 1022) would provide new resources for community-based gang prevention and intervention activities. The bill would also revise criminal laws and penalties to give gang prosecutors new tools in the fight against gang violence. The legislation will target resources to communities with severe gang activity and includes more than $1 billion in funding for law enforcement, prevention, and intervention programs.“As a former federal prosecutor, I know the damage gangs cause in our community,” said Schiff. “This bill takes concrete steps in fighting gang violence by increasing federal support for proven gang prevention efforts to keep kids out of trouble. But equally, for those who do engage in gang violence, the bill will give law enforcement an enhanced ability to crack down on gang offenders and increase penalties for those gang members who terrorize our communities.”“We need to do everything in our power to keep our neighborhoods – and children – safe from gang violence,” said Bono Mack. “Gangs are becoming increasingly organized and affecting suburban communities. It is time we take strong, collaborative steps to fight back. By working on multiple levels – from prevention programs that will keep kids out of gangs in the first place to increased law enforcement efforts – this bill will help curb this problem facing our nation. I applaud Congressman Schiff for his work on this issue and look forward to working on a bipartisan basis to get this legislation passed.”“Gang violence continues to plague our nation’s cities, suburbs and rural areas. The FBI estimates there are more than 1 million gang members nationwide. More than 20 percent of the homicides in California in 2007 were gang-related,” Senator Feinstein said. “This legislation provides a balanced approach. It offers sensible federal penalties. It also addresses the root causes of gang violence by identifying and investing in successful community programs to prevent young people from joining gangs in the first place.”“We first introduced comprehensive gang legislation more than 10 years ago. It has passed the Senate but we’ve never been able to get this bill through the House of Representatives,” Senator Feinstein continued. “Congress needs to act now and lend this much-needed and long-awaited assistance to local and state agencies battling gang violence. I look forward to working with Congressman Schiff in this effort.”“According to the Los Angeles Police Department, there were 381 homicides in the City of Los Angeles in 2008, and 167 were gang-related, over 40 percent. The 2009 Gang Threat Assessment by the National Gang Intelligence Center predicts in coming years, “Most regions in the United States will experience increased gang membership, continued migration of gangs to suburban and rural areas, and increased gang-related criminal activity.” The report also estimates that there are already one million criminally active gang members belonging to 20,000 gangs across the nation as of September 2008.Chief Bernard Melekian said about Rep. Schiff’s legislation, “As Chief of Police for the City of Pasadena, I’ve seen firsthand the terrible toll that gangs takes on our neighborhoods. I have gone to too many funerals for young people and stood in too many living rooms explaining to families why their loved one will never be home again. The Gang Prevention, Intervention, and Suppression Act will enhance the ability of local law enforcement to crack down on violent gang members, while helping to provide alternatives to gangs for young people in our communities. I look forward to working to pass this vital legislation.”The Gang Prevention, Intervention and Suppression Act would authorize over $1 billion spread out over five years for prevention and enforcement efforts. Much of the funding would be directed toward the High Intensity Gang Activity Area (HIGAA) program. This program facilitates cooperation between local, state and federal law enforcement in identifying, targeting and eliminating violent gangs in areas where gang activity is particularly prevalent. Half of the HIGAA funding, or $250 million, would be specified for community-based intervention and prevention initiatives focused on at-risk youth. Additional funding is also included in the bill for education and employment programs targeted at former gang members to help them attain a GED, develop job skills, and be placed in an apprenticeship.The Gang Prevention, Intervention and Suppression Act would give gang prosecutors new tools to combat gang-related crime by: Creating new criminal gang offenses to prohibit recruitment for street gangs and target gangs who recruit children; Enhancing penalties for repeated violent gang crime offenses; Establishing penalties for violence committed in drug trafficking related offenses; and Enacting various other changes to federal criminal code to more effectively deter and punish violence by criminal street gangs and other violent criminals.Rep. Schiff has long fought to end gang violence dating back to his days as a federal prosecutor and State Senator. While serving in the State Senate, he introduced landmark anti-gang legislation, called “The Schiff Cardenas Crime Prevention Act of 2000,” which for the first time invested as much in the prevention of crime as in the suppression of crime. The bill introduced today is similar to legislation that Rep. Schiff introduced in 2007.Rep. Schiff was appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. He also serves on the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
02.10.09	02.10.09 Schiff Attends Meeting at White House with President Obama Tuesday, February 10, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Attends Meeting at White House with President ObamaBlue Dog Coalition Discusses Fiscal Reforms with PresidentWashington, DC – Late yesterday, Rep. Adam Schiff and fellow members of the Blue Dog Coalition met with President Barack Obama at the White House to discuss the need for long-term fiscal reform, including ways to balance the budget and bring much-needed accountability to the federal government. The meeting lasted for over an hour and Rep. Schiff personally raised with the President the need to put in place a mechanism to address the country's long term budget problems.“It is great to have a President who is willing to listen to a broad range of ideas from a diverse set of people,” said Schiff. “We all acknowledge the need to inject money into the economy to create jobs and that will mean deficits for some time, but we have long-term structural problems that also need to be addressed. I appreciate the President meeting with us and look forward to working with him to develop a plan to get back to a balanced budget and ultimately reduce the national debt.”Rep. Schiff has supported pay-as-you-go rules and other budgetary reforms throughout his tenure in Congress. The Blue Dog Coalition has been a longstanding advocate of responsible fiscal policy and is committed to working with the President and leaders in Congress to take meaningful steps to put the country back on a path to fiscal and economic sustainability.The fiscally responsible Democratic Blue Dog Coalition was formed in 1995 around a core set of beliefs that transcend partisan politics, including a deep commitment to the financial stability and national security of the United States. Currently there are 49 members of the Blue Dog Coalition. For more information, visit the Blue Dog Website at http://www.house.gov/ross/BlueDogs/.
02.05.09	02.05.09 Schiff's Bill to Pay Tribute to "Go for Broke" Regiments Collects More Than 100 Cosponsors Thursday, February 05, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff’s Bill to Pay Tribute to “Go for Broke” Regiments Collects More Than 100 CosponsorsBill honors Japanese-American World War II veteransWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff announced his “Go For Broke” legislation has collected more than 100 bipartisan cosponsors in less than a month. The bill seeks to pay tribute to the Japanese-American 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, for their dedicated service to our nation during World War II by awarding them the Congressional Gold Medal. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’s highest civilian honor and requires two-thirds of the House to cosponsor the legislation before it can more forward. Currently, the bill has 101 cosponsors.“These men served with pride, courage and conviction, waging a war on two fronts – abroad against a forceful and oppressive fascism, and at home against the intolerance of racial injustice,” said Schiff. “At a time when they could have easily turned their backs on a country which had seemingly turned its back on them, these men chose the nobler, bolder, and more difficult route. It is long past due that Congress recognize their heroic efforts with Congress’s most prestigious award.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Starts and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.Last year as part of the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act (H.R. 2638) Rep. Schiff secured $4 million for the construction of the Go For Broke National Education Center in Los Angles.The Go For Broke National Education Center will serve the roughly 16,000 Go For Broke veterans and their families by documenting their oral histories, providing volunteer veterans at the Go For Broke Monument in Los Angeles, and by conducting teacher training so this history can properly make its way into classrooms and teachers’ lesson plans.
02.05.09	02.05.09 OPED: Stimulus Package a Crucial First Step to Reignite the Economy CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, February 05, 2009Congressman Schiff's guest views on the stimulus package were carried in the Pasadena Star-News, the San Gabriel Valley Tribune, and the Whittier Daily News:Last week, the American economy lost 71,400 jobs - in a single day. The International Monetary Fund warned that world economic growth is set to fall to 0.5 percent in 2009, its lowest rate since World War II. And at the just concluded World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, business leaders from around the world were gloomy and skittish. Their mood reflected the global fear about the state of the world economy. We have a unique opportunity to achieve two important goals with the stimulus package that recently passed the House and is now awaiting action in the Senate: to create jobs and get commerce moving again through a combination of infrastructure spending, tax cuts and other fiscal stimulus, so that families can maintain their income, standard of living and health care; and to make investments in our future and promote our long-term prosperity. One of the major pillars of the stimulus package is infrastructure spending that will quickly create jobs while rebuilding the nation's transportation networks. Los Angeles County is expected to receive $447 million for transit-related projects and at least $380 million in highway funding in the House version of the bill. While we must disperse these funds quickly, we must ensure that they constitute a significant and lasting investment in our country, such as building ready-to-go capital projects like the Gold Line Foothill Extension that will benefit our community for decades. By also focusing on renewable energy, we meet both goals for the stimulus. The green energy sector is burgeoning and offers many opportunities to give the economy a quick boost. The bill includes billions in federal loan guarantees to help local and state governments finance new projects, a necessity in these credit-starved times, while extending tax incentives for renewable energy developers and funding for immediate reliability improvements to the national electrical grid. But much of the renewable energy section of the bill is also vital to long-term economic health and competitiveness. Each solar panel or wind turbine we build makes the next one cheaper, and the stimulus includes funding for research and development that will provide the clean, efficient new technologies that will produce our energy in the future. The stimulus is merely the first in a wave of solar, geothermal and wind energy investments that will transform our economy and create well-paid, high-tech jobs in America, without plundering our nation's natural resources. This bill is not just a first step; it is a great leap toward a clean, sustainable high-tech economy. The recession and the hyper-competitive global economy are endangering our advantage in human capital. Despite today's economic challenges, we must prepare our children to compete in the 21st Century economy by building new schools, modernizing others, and increasing assistance to school districts to avoid layoffs. At a meeting I hosted on Friday with local school board members and superintendents, I identified more than $95 million in the stimulus bill that will go out to schools in our community over the next two years. The bill also expands access to higher education and contains provisions making college more affordable for many low- and middle-income families, including: a new American Opportunity Tax Credit of $2,500 for students who perform at least 100 hours of community service; an increase to the Pell grant maximum by $500 to $5,350, and $79 billion in state block grants with 61 percent of that funding directed to both pre K-12 and higher education. These investments will ensure that the recovery, when it comes, will be broad and sustainable. With the unemployment rate for the L.A.-Long Beach-Glendale Metro area nearing 10 percent, I have heard from constituents who are going through hard times, facing foreclosure, losing their jobs and even going bankrupt. One local mother wrote to tell me that she was laid off from her job as a postal carrier in December and applied for unemployment benefits immediately. While she is waiting for the payments, her two adult kids are pitching in so she can continue to provide for her young son. She has turned, as so many have in these troubled times, to prayer. The stimulus may provide this mother some of the relief for which she has been praying. The bill increases funding for unemployment insurance benefiting her and 2.3 million other jobless California workers and increases their checks to $325 a week. To help them as they re-enter the workforce, the bill funds adult and dislocated worker training and federal subsidies for COBRA health insurance for a year.The stimulus bill is far from perfect, and more work needs to be done to ensure that all of the spending in the bill meets the stated purpose of stimulating the economy and helping Americans in need. But our friends and neighbors are hurting, California is struggling and our nation needs a helping hand. This package is a crucial step in reigniting the economic engine that has made America the most productive and innovative economy in the world. It will not solve all of our problems, but it is a start.
02.04.09	02.04.09 Schiff Votes to Extend Health Care to Millions of Children in Need Wednesday, February 04, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Votes to Extend Health Care to Millions of Children in Need Washington, DC – As families across the country struggle to pay their bills and put food on the table, Congress took action today to ensure millions of children do not have to go without health care. The House passed, with Rep. Schiff’s support, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act and sent it to the President to be signed into law. This was the second time SCHIP passed the House this year, and today’s vote was on a compromise measure reached with the Senate. “SCHIP is based on a simple premise – providing health insurance to kids is the right thing to do. Parents shouldn’t have to choose between buying dinner for their children or bringing them to a doctor when they are sick,” said Schiff. “SCHIP ensures that parents never have to make that decision by providing heath care to children whose parents’ incomes are too high to qualify for Medicaid, but who do not receive health insurance through their employer and can’t afford it on their own.”Congressman Schiff has been a longtime supporter of SCHIP, or Healthy Families as it is known in California, which extends health care benefits to children nationwide. SCHIP gives states the resources and incentives necessary to reach millions of uninsured children. About two-thirds of uninsured children in California can receive SCHIP benefits, but many of their parents are not aware that they are eligible. In the 29th District alone, more than 13,000 children received health coverage from Healthy Families in 2007, although thousands of others are eligible but remain uninsured. The bipartisan legislation passed today improves SCHIP, providing health care coverage for 11 million children by preserving coverage for the roughly 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP and extending coverage to 4.1 million uninsured children who are currently eligible for, but not enrolled in, SCHIP and Medicaid. Rep. Schiff’s office is available to help those struggling to afford health insurance for their children determine whether they are eligible for SCHIP and to provide information on how to apply. To obtain more information about SCHIP/Healthy Families constituents are welcomed to contact Rep. Schiff’s district office at 626-304-2727.
02.03.09	02.03.09 Congressman Adam Schiff Comments on DOJ Arrest in Case of Terrorist Hoax Letters Tuesday, February 03, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Congressman Adam Schiff Comments on DOJ Arrest in Case of Terrorist Hoax Letters Richard Leon Goyette charged using the Anti-Hoax Terrorism Act coauthored by Rep. Schiff Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff, coauthor of the Anti-Hoax Terrorism Act, lauded the Justice Department’s arrest of Richard Leon Goyette, a.k.a. Michael Jurek, in connection with threatening letters with a white powder sent to financial institutions in October 2008. In 2004, Congress passed Rep. Schiff’s bill which created criminal and civil penalties for falsely reporting chemical, biological or nuclear threats including those in written or verbal form, as well as those communicated through physical actions. This law was used by the U.S. Attorney’s office in charging Mr. Goyette with this crime. “These actions are despicable, and anyone responsible should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” said Schiff. “Those who mimic a terrorist attack not only strike fear in our communities but also dilute law enforcement resources. Our first responders continue to struggle each day to meet the demands of keeping us safe from potential terrorist attacks. They work around the clock to strengthen and improve protocols to respond swiftly and safely in the event of a terrorist attack, and acts like these are costly distractions that we can’t afford.” The Anti-Hoax Terrorism Act was included in the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Implementation Act (S. 2845) signed into law in 2004. The law allows for perpetrators of such hoaxes to be subject to the following penalties: A prison sentence of not more than five years or a fine, or both; Liability in a civil action, including the cost of a response made by any military or civilian agency to protect public health or safety; and Liability for reimbursement expenses for the false impression(s) created.
01.28.09	01.28.09 Schiff Supports American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in Speech on House Floor Wednesday, January 28, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Supports American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in Speech on House FloorBill to invest in America, provide tax relief, and create millions of jobs is expected to pass the House tonightWashington, D.C. – This afternoon, Rep. Adam Schiff spoke on the House Floor in support of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, a stimulus measure that will invest in America’s future, provide tax relief to 95 percent of American families, and create millions of jobs. With the nation struggling, this legislation aims to get the economy moving again by transforming it to meet the needs of the 21st Century. The bill is expected to pass on the House floor later tonight.Below is the full text of Rep. Schiff’s floor speech: “In 2008, more than 2.6 million Americans lost their jobs, the highest yearly job-loss total since 1945. In my home state of California, the unemployment rate soared to 9.3 percent last month – its highest point in 15 years. It is clear that Congress must take aggressive action to stave off a long and deep recession and that we must do more to ensure that appropriated money is spent efficiently and effectively to ensure America’s future success.“This legislation will create jobs quickly, help restore purchasing power, assist those in need and begin to reignite our flagging economy. With such a large stimulus package under consideration, we also have a unique opportunity to build infrastructure that will promote long-term prosperity. While we must place a premium on dispersing these funds quickly, we must also make a large, significant and lasting investment in our country’s future. I hope to be able to look back on this period, when the recession is far behind us and see that something positive came out of this crisis.“By investing in renewable energy, we can achieve both short-term and long-term goals. The green energy sector has many shovel-ready projects that would give the economy a quick boost. But renewable energy is also vital to our continued economic health - it creates high-paying American jobs in a fast-growing industry and protects our nation's natural resources. In passing this bill, we take the first step on the path toward a clean sustainable high-tech economy.“I believe that the stimulus will help revive our economy both by helping American families who are struggling to make ends meet and by making critical investments in our future. It will help establish the foundation for the nation’s long-term economic health and prosperity and ensure a lasting improvement in the standard of living for our children and their children.”
01.28.09	01.28.09 Reviving the American Economy CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESWednesday, January 28, 2009(View Video) In 2008, more than 2.6 million Americans lost their jobs, the highest yearly job-loss total since 1945. In my home state of California, the unemployment rate soared to 9.3 percent last month – its highest point in 15 years. It is clear that Congress must take aggressive action to stave off a long and deep recession and that we must do more to ensure that appropriated money is spent efficiently and effectively to ensure America’s future success. This legislation will create jobs quickly, help restore purchasing power, assist those in need and begin to reignite our flagging economy. With such a large stimulus package under consideration, we also have a unique opportunity to build infrastructure that will promote long-term prosperity. While we must place a premium on dispersing these funds quickly, we must also make a large, significant and lasting investment in our country’s future. I hope to be able to look back on this period, when the recession is far behind us and see that something positive came out of this crisis.By investing in renewable energy, we can achieve both short-term and long-term goals. The green energy sector has many shovel-ready projects that would give the economy a quick boost. But renewable energy is also vital to our continued economic health - it creates high-paying American jobs in a fast-growing industry and protects our nation's natural resources. In passing this bill, we take the first step on the path toward a clean sustainable high-tech economy.I believe that the stimulus will help revive our economy both by helping American families who are struggling to make ends meet and by making critical investments in our future. It will help establish the foundation for the nation’s long-term economic health and prosperity and ensure a lasting improvement in the standard of living for our children and their children.
01.27.09	01.27.09 Schiff Reintroduces Legislation to "Fingerprint" Nuclear Material Tuesday, January 27, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Reintroduces Legislation to “Fingerprint” Nuclear Material Legislation will improve technology to track down nuclear traffickers and identify sources of nuclear materialWashington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff reintroduced the Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act. The legislation will strengthen efforts in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material, and will also encourage the President to negotiate international agreements to govern international nuclear forensics activities. This legislation passed in slightly different forms in the House and the Senate last year, but did not become law.“If we can determine the source of the nuclear material, we can better attack smuggling networks and plug the security holes that allow deadly material to be obtained in the first place,” said Schiff. “Nuclear states like North Korea may be deterred from transferring nuclear material if they know it can be traced back to them.”In the event of nuclear material being intercepted at a border crossing or in a sting operation, there may be few clues to assist investigators in determining where the bomb or material originated. The radioactive material itself may be the only lead. Each sample of nuclear material has an elemental fingerprint that can help determine its source. However, current efforts to trace materials are often incomplete because the technology is still in development and information on foreign reactors and stockpiles is not available. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act will authorize the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center at DHS to coordinate the government’s nuclear forensics efforts and encourage technicians and scientists to enter the field. It will also call upon the President to lead international efforts to share nuclear forensics data.Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on securing vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. Last year, Rep. Schiff co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security, which seeks to identify the most urgent vulnerabilities and take immediate action to improve nuclear safeguards, secure fissile materials, and prevent the misuse of sensitive nuclear materials and technologies. In the last Congress, Congressman Schiff introduced several bipartisan bills which would reduce the threat of a nuclear disaster. In addition to the nuclear forensics bill, he introduced legislation that would prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. He also introduced the Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act, which seeks to bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists by making nuclear trafficking a crime against humanity. In the 109th Congress, he introduced legislation to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program and establish an Office of Nonproliferation Programs in the Executive Office of the President. In April 2004, Rep. Schiff introduced H.R. 4212 which would have created a Presidential Task Force within the Department of Energy to focus on an immediate strategy to secure nuclear material around the world. He also introduced legislation (H.R. 2063) to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program to include countries outside the former Soviet Union, such as Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq in May of 2003. That same month, he joined Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to strengthen the United States' efforts to safeguard or destroy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and related materials around the world.
01.27.09	01.27.09 The Year of the Ox CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESTuesday, January 27, 2009Madam Speaker, I rise today to extend my best wishes to the millions of Asian Americans who are celebrating the Lunar New Year, which ushers in the Year of the Ox. Representing one of the largest Asian American populations in Southern California, I have had the distinct privilege in joining many of my Asian American constituents to commemorate this historic tradition.The communities of Alhambra, San Gabriel, and Monterey Park have organized events and festivities for families to gather and celebrate the Year of the Ox. I am also delighted that this will be the 110th year that the Annual Golden Dragon Lunar New Year Parade, hosted by the Chinese Chamber of Commerce of Los Angeles, will be bringing floats, marching bands, and various forms of entertainment to over 100,000 people. From parades to festivals, all will be able to enjoy the colorful, rich traditions that have been observed by many Asian cultures for centuries.I wish you all the best in the Year of the Ox.
01.22.09	01.22.09 Press Freedom in Sri Lanka CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, January 22, 2009(View Video) Mr. Speaker, in 2006 I cofounded the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, and since then this bipartisan, bicameral caucus has sought to highlight the importance of free expression around the world. I rise today to honor Lasantha Wickramatunga, a brave journalist who was gunned down while driving to work in the Sri Lankan capital of Colombo. Threats, attacks and murders of journalists are becoming all too common in Sri Lanka. Mr. Wickramatunga knew the dangers too well but courageously continued reporting. Recognizing his work might cost him his life, Mr. Wickramatunga wrote a letter to be published in the event of his assassination. Today I will read excerpts of his letter which was published by his paper, The Sunday Leader, on January 11, 3 days after he was killed. He wrote, "No other profession calls on its practitioners to lay down their lives for their art save the armed forces and, in Sri Lanka, journalism. In the course of the past few years, the independent media have increasingly come under attack. Electronic and print media institutions have been burnt, bombed, sealed and coerced. Countless journalists have been harassed, threatened and killed. It has been my honor to belong to all those categories and now especially the last. “Why then do we do it? I often wonder that. After all, I too am a husband, and the father of three wonderful children. I too have responsibilities and obligations that transcend my profession, be it the law or journalism. “But there is a calling that is yet above high office, fame, lucre and security. It is the call of conscience. “The Sunday Leader has been a controversial newspaper because we say it like we see it: whether it be a spade, a thief or a murderer, we call it by that name. We do not hide behind euphemism. The investigative articles we print are supported by documentary evidence thanks to the public-spiritedness of citizens who at great risk to themselves pass on this material to us. We have exposed scandal after scandal, and never once in these 15 years has anyone proved us wrong or successfully prosecuted us. “The free media serve as a mirror in which the public can see itself, sans mascara and styling gel. From us you learn the state of your nation, and especially its management by the people you elected to give your children a better future. Sometimes the image you see in that mirror is not a pleasant one. But while you may grumble in the privacy your armchair, the journalists who hold the mirror up to you do so publicly and at great risk to themselves. That is our calling, and we do not shirk it. “If I seem angry and frustrated, it is because most of my countrymen--and all of the government--cannot see this writing plainly on the wall. “It is well known that on two occasions I was brutally assaulted, while on another my house was sprayed with machine-gun fire. Despite the government's sanctimonious assurances, there was never a serious police inquiry into the perpetrators of these attacks, and the attackers were never apprehended. In all these cases, I have reason to believe the attacks were inspired by the government. When finally I am killed, it will be the government that kills me. “As for me, I have the satisfaction of knowing that I walk tall and bowed to no man. And I have not traveled this journey alone. Fellow journalists in other branches of the media walked with me: most of them are now dead, imprisoned without trial or exiled in far-off lands. “As for the readers of The Sunday Leader, what can I say but Thank You for supporting our mission. We have espoused unpopular causes, stood up for those too feeble to stand up for themselves, locked horns with the high and mighty so swollen with power that they have forgotten their roots, exposed corruption and waste of your hard-earned tax rupees, and make sure that whatever the propaganda of the day, you were allowed to hear a contrary view. For this I--and my family--have now paid the price that I have long known I will one day have to pay. I am--and have always been--ready for that. I have done nothing to prevent this outcome: no security, no precautions. I want my murderer to know that I am not a coward like he is, hiding behind human shields while condemning thousands of innocents to death. “That The Sunday Leader will continue fighting the good fight, too, is written. For I did not fight this alone. Many more of us have to be--and will be--killed before The Leader is laid to rest. I hope my assassination will be seen not as a defeat of freedom but an inspiration for those who survive to step up their efforts. Indeed, I hope that it will help galvanize forces that will usher in a new era of human liberty in our beloved motherland. I also hope it will open the eyes of your President to the fact that however many are slaughtered in the name of patriotism, the human spirit will endure and flourish. Not all the Rajapakses combined can kill that. “People often ask me why I take such risks and tell me it is a matter of time before I am bumped off. Of course I know that: it is inevitable. But if we do not speak out now, there will be no one left to speak for those who cannot, whether they be ethnic minorities, the disadvantaged or the persecuted.'' These were the words he wrote in anticipation of his own assassination. Mr. Speaker, I submit the entire text of his letter for the Record. The following editorial by Lasantha Wickramatunga, was published in The Sunday Leader on January 11:No other profession calls on its practitioners to lay down their lives for their art save the armed forces and, in Sri Lanka, journalism. In the course of the past few years, the independent media have increasingly come under attack. Electronic and print-media institutions have been burnt, bombed, sealed and coerced. Countless journalists have been harassed, threatened and killed. It has been my honour to belong to all those categories and now especially the last. I have been in the business of journalism a good long time. Indeed, 2009 will be The Sunday Leader's 15th year. Many things have changed in Sri Lanka during that time, and it does not need me to tell you that the greater part of that change has been for the worse. We find ourselves in the midst of a civil war ruthlessly prosecuted by protagonists whose bloodlust knows no bounds. Terror, whether perpetrated by terrorists or the state, has become the order of the day. Indeed, murder has become the primary tool whereby the state seeks to control the organs of liberty. Today it is the journalists, tomorrow it will be the judges. For neither group have the risks ever been higher or the stakes lower. Why then do we do it? I often wonder that. After all, I too am a husband, and the father of three wonderful children. I too have responsibilities and obligations that transcend my profession, be it the law or journalism. Is it worth the risk? Many people tell me it is not. Friends tell me to revert to the bar, and goodness knows it offers a better and safer livelihood. Others, including political leaders on both sides, have at various times sought to induce me to take to politics, going so far as to offer me ministries of my choice. Diplomats, recognizing the risk journalists face in Sri Lanka, have offered me safe passage and the right of residence in their countries. Whatever else I may have been stuck for, I have not been stuck for choice. But there is a calling that is yet above high office, fame, lucre and security. It is the call of conscience. The Sunday Leader has been a controversial newspaper because we say it like we see it: whether it be a spade, a thief or a murderer, we call it by that name. We do not hide behind euphemism. The investigative articles we print are supported by documentary evidence thanks to the public-spiritedness of citizens who at great risk to themselves pass on this material to us. We have exposed scandal after scandal, and never once in these 15 years has anyone proved us wrong or successfully prosecuted us. The free media serve as a mirror in which the public can see itself sans mascara and styling gel. From us you learn the state of your nation, and especially its management by the people you elected to give your children a better future. Sometimes the image you see in that mirror is not a pleasant one. But while you may grumble in the privacy of your armchair, the journalists who hold the mirror up to you do so publicly and at great risk to themselves. That is our calling, and we do not shirk it. Every newspaper has its angle, and we do not hide the fact that we have ours. Our commitment is to see Sri Lanka as a transparent, secular, liberal democracy. Think about those words, for they each have profound meaning. Transparent because government must be openly accountable to the people and never abuse their trust. Secular because in a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society such as ours, secularism offers the only common ground by which we might all be united. Liberal because we recognize that all human beings are created different, and we need to accept others for what they are and not what we would like them to be. And democratic ..... well, if you need me to explain why that is important, you'd best stop buying this paper. The Sunday Leader has never sought safety by unquestioningly articulating the majority view. Let's face it, that is the way to sell newspapers. On the contrary, as our opinion pieces over the years amply demonstrate, we often voice ideas that many people find distasteful. For example, we have consistently espoused the view that while separatist terrorism must be eradicated, it is more important to address the root causes of terrorism, and urged government to view Sri Lanka's ethnic strife in the context of history and not through the telescope of terrorism. We have also agitated against state terrorism in the so-called war against terror, and made no secret of our horror that Sri Lanka is the only country in the world routinely to bomb its own citizens. For these views we have been labeled traitors, and if this be treachery, we wear that label proudly. Many people suspect that The Sunday Leader has a political agenda: it does not. If we appear more critical of the government than of the opposition it is only because we believe that--pray excuse cricketing argot--there is no point in bowling to the fielding side. Remember that for the few years of our existence in which the UNP was in office, we proved to be the biggest thorn in its flesh, exposing excess and corruption wherever it occurred. Indeed, the steady stream of embarrassing exposés we published may well have served to precipitate the downfall of that government. Neither should our distaste for the war be interpreted to mean that we support the Tigers. The LTTE are among the most ruthless and bloodthirsty organizations ever to have infested the planet. There is no gainsaying that it must be eradicated. But to do so by violating the rights of Tamil citizens, bombing and shooting them mercilessly, is not only wrong but shames the Sinhalese, whose claim to be custodians of the dhamma is forever called into question by this savagery, much of which is unknown to the public because of censorship. What is more, a military occupation of the country's north and east will require the Tamil people of those regions to live eternally as second-class citizens, deprived of all self respect. Do not imagine that you can placate them by showering ``development'' and ``reconstruction'' on them in the post-war era. The wounds of war will scar them forever, and you will also have an even more bitter and hateful Diaspora to contend with. A problem amenable to a political solution will thus become a festering wound that will yield strife for all eternity. If I seem angry and frustrated, it is only because most of my countrymen--and all of the government--cannot see this writing so plainly on the wall. It is well known that I was on two occasions brutally assaulted, while on another my house was sprayed with machine-gun fire. Despite the government's sanctimonious assurances, there was never a serious police inquiry into the perpetrators of these attacks, and the attackers were never apprehended. In all these cases, I have reason to believe the attacks were inspired by the government. When finally I am killed, it will be the government that kills me. The irony in this is that, unknown to most of the public, Mahinda and I have been friends for more than a quarter century. Indeed, I suspect that I am one of the few people remaining who routinely addresses him by his first name and uses the familiar Sinhala address oya when talking to him. Although I do not attend the meetings he periodically holds for newspaper editors, hardly a month passes when we do not meet, privately or with a few close friends present, late at night at President's House. There we swap yarns, discuss politics and joke about the good old days. A few remarks to him would therefore be in order here. Mahinda, when you finally fought your way to the SLFP presidential nomination in 2005, nowhere were you welcomed more warmly than in this column. Indeed, we broke with a decade of tradition by referring to you throughout by your first name. So well known were your commitments to human rights and liberal values that we ushered you in like a breath of fresh air. Then, through an act of folly, you got yourself involved in the Helping Hambantota scandal. It was after a lot of soul-searching that we broke the story, at the same time urging you to return the money. By the time you did so several weeks later, a great blow had been struck to your reputation. It is one you are still trying to live down. You have told me yourself that you were not greedy for the presidency. You did not have to hanker after it: it fell into your lap. You have told me that your sons are your greatest joy, and that you love spending time with them, leaving your brothers to operate the machinery of state. Now, it is clear to all who will see that that machinery has operated so well that my sons and daughter do not themselves have a father. In the wake of my death I know you will make all the usual sanctimonious noises and call upon the police to hold a swift and thorough inquiry. But like all the inquiries you have ordered in the past, nothing will come of this one, too. For truth be told, we both know who will be behind my death, but dare not call his name. Not just my life, but yours too, depends on it. Sadly, for all the dreams you had for our country in your younger days, in just three years you have reduced it to rubble. In the name of patriotism you have trampled on human rights, nurtured unbridled corruption and squandered public money like no other President before you. Indeed, your conduct has been like a small child suddenly let loose in a toyshop. That analogy is perhaps inapt because no child could have caused so much blood to be spilled on this land as you have, or trampled on the rights of its citizens as you do. Although you are now so drunk with power that you cannot see it, you will come to regret your sons having so rich an inheritance of blood. It can only bring tragedy. As for me, it is with a clear conscience that I go to meet my Maker. I wish, when your time finally comes, you could do the same. I wish. As for me, I have the satisfaction of knowing that I walked tall and bowed to no man. And I have not travelled this journey alone. Fellow journalists in other branches of the media walked with me: most of them are now dead, imprisoned without trial or exiled in far-off lands. Others walk in the shadow of death that your Presidency has cast on the freedoms for which you once fought so hard. You will never be allowed to forget that my death took place under your watch. As anguished as I know you will be, I also know that you will have no choice but to protect my killers: you will see to it that the guilty one is never convicted. You have no choice. I feel sorry for you, and Shiranthi will have a long time to spend on her knees when next she goes for Confession for it is not just her owns sins which she must confess, but those of her extended family that keeps you in office. As for the readers of The Sunday Leader, what can I say but Thank You for supporting our mission. We have espoused unpopular causes, stood up for those too feeble to stand up for themselves, locked horns with the high and mighty so swollen with power that they have forgotten their roots, exposed corruption and the waste of your hard-earned tax rupees, and made sure that whatever the propaganda of the day, you were allowed to hear a contrary view. For this I--and my family--have now paid the price that I have long known I will one day have to pay. I am--and have always been--ready for that. I have done nothing to prevent this outcome: no security, no precautions. I want my murderer to know that I am not a coward like he is, hiding behind human shields while condemning thousands of innocents to death. What am I among so many? It has long been written that my life would be taken, and by whom. All that remains to be written is when. That The Sunday Leader will continue fighting the good fight, too, is written. For I did not fight this fight alone. Many more of us have to be--and will be--killed before The Leader is laid to rest. I hope my assassination will be seen not as a defeat of freedom but an inspiration for those who survive to step up their efforts. Indeed, I hope that it will help galvanize forces that will usher in a new era of human liberty in our beloved motherland. I also hope it will open the eyes of your President to the fact that however many are slaughtered in the name of patriotism, the human spirit will endure and flourish. Not all the Rajapakses combined can kill that. People often ask me why I take such risks and tell me it is a matter of time before I am bumped off. Of course I know that: it is inevitable. But if we do not speak out now, there will be no one left to speak for those who cannot, whether they be ethnic minorities, the disadvantaged or the persecuted. An example that has inspired me throughout my career in journalism has been that of the German theologian, Martin Niemo 4ller. In his youth he was an anti-Semite and an admirer of Hitler. As Nazism took hold in Germany, however, he saw Nazism for what it was: it was not just the Jews Hitler sought to extirpate, it was just about anyone with an alternate point of view. Niemo 4ller spoke out, and for his trouble was incarcerated in the Sachsenhausen and Dachau concentration camps from 1937 to 1945, and very nearly executed. While incarcerated, Niemo 4ller wrote a poem that, from the first time I read it in my teenage years, stuck hauntingly in my mind: First they came for the Jews and I did not speak out because I was not a Jew. Then they came for the Communists and I did not speak out because I was not a Communist. Then they came for the trade unionists and I did not speak out because I was not a trade unionist. Then they came for me and there was no one left to speak out for me. If you remember nothing else, remember this: The Leader is there for you, be you Sinhalese, Tamil, Muslim, low-caste, homosexual, dissident or disabled. Its staff will fight on, unbowed and unafraid, with the courage to which you have become accustomed. Do not take that commitment for granted. Let there be no doubt that whatever sacrifices we journalists make, they are not made for our own glory or enrichment: they are made for you. Whether you deserve their sacrifice is another matter. As for me, God knows I tried.
01.21.09	01.21.09 Reps. Schiff and Issa, Sen. Specter Introduce Legislation to Improve Patent Litigation in District Courts Wednesday, January 21, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Reps. Schiff and Issa, Sen. Specter Introduce Legislation to Improve Patent Litigation in District CourtsWashington, DC – House Judiciary Committee member Rep. Adam Schiff, Rep. Darrell Issa, Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and U.S. Senator Arlen Specter, Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today introduced the House and Senate companion bills H.R. 628 and S. 299, legislation creating a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The legislation will establish a pilot project in at least five district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases. Each of the test courts will be assigned a clerk with expertise in patent law or with the technical issues arising in patent cases. The bills will also allocate funding to provide educational opportunities for judges who opt-in to the program. “This legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating,” Rep. Schiff said. “This will reduce the cost to consumers of everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones.”“Sen. Specter’s support for this legislation is a critical boost,” said Rep. Issa who first introduced the bipartisan legislation with Rep. Schiff in 2006. “There is broad recognition that enhancing expertise on patents in Federal courts can create a more just and cost-effective venue for legal challenges.”“This legislation will ensure that our nation’s judges are equipped to handle patent cases by providing them with training in this highly technical area of law,” Senator Specter said. “This, in turn, will encourage innovation by addressing the rising burden that patent litigation imposes on our inventors and economy. The patent system is complex; the changes that we make to improve it will invariably be multifaceted. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate on this important legislation.”The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success.“Prior to coming to Congress, I was part of a number of patent suits. I was often struck by the fact that many district court judges either knew little of the applicable law, or did not understand the technology involved,” said Issa. “Patent litigation often costs litigants over $10 million and can inject crippling uncertainty into a business. This legislation will help courts and help businesses and individual inventors who patent ideas.”The Patent Pilot bill was originally introduced in 2006. It was passed by the House of Representatives in both the 109th and 110th Congresses but has not been approved in the Senate.
01.15.09	01.15.09 Opinion: Military courts-martial should replace failed Guantanamo policy CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, January 15, 2009 Special to the Mercury NewsNext week, the new president will formally inherit the nightmare of Guantánamo Bay. President-elect Barack Obama says he intends to shutter Guantánamo, and this decision is sound: The poorly thought-out prison and recent confirmation that torture took place there have called into question American adherence to the rule of law and discouraged our allies from cooperating with us.Any post-Guantánamo system to detain enemy combatants must meet our national security needs, provide adequate due process to minimize the likelihood of error and be a pragmatic balance of these sometimes competing objectives.When a suspected terrorist is captured on a foreign battlefield, the accepted laws of war allow the United States to detain that person until the end of the conflict. If the person is an unlawful (or unprivileged) combatant, they can be held for the duration of the war, and may be prosecuted for other crimes. Two determinations must then be made — whether the person is an unlawful enemy combatant, and whether the person has committed criminal offenses. The question confronting the new administration and Congress will be: Who should make these decisions, and how?The Bush administration established tribunals to determine whether someone at Guantánamo was an unlawful enemy combatant, and military commissions to handle any prosecutions. This system has proved so flawed, and its due process so inadequate and discredited, it should be completely junked.Some have advocated moving all detainees into the federal criminal courts or establishing a new national security court empowered to preventively detain terrorism suspects, but there is a better solution.Military courts-martial have been in existence since the American Revolution and have a long history of dispensing justice without compromising military operations. Cases are tried before a panel of military judges using a set of due process protections provided for under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Almost any wartime offense could be tried in a military court-martial, and their use would allow us to show the world we are giving detainees the same procedural protections we give our own service members.The military courts-martial may not currently have jurisdiction to make initial determinations of whether someone is an unlawful combatant, but this can be easily changed by Congress. The district courts, currently entertaining hundreds of habeas petitions based on the flawed actions of the current tribunals, should stay their proceedings until the courts-martial have the opportunity to act and correct any errors. Upon their conclusion, all habeas petitions should be consolidated in a single district court.Guantánamo detainees who no longer pose a threat or who are determined by the courts-martial not to be enemy combatants should be repatriated, provided we can be assured they will not be tortured. There also appears to be a new willingness among our European partners to resettle some of the detainees, an early dividend of the good will that awaits the new president. Detainees who are found to be unlawful combatants and to have committed additional crimes should be tried in the courts-martial, and if convicted, held in a military brig.The most difficult cases — and probably the most numerous — are those involving detainees captured on the battlefields of Afghanistan who have been found to be unlawful combatants but against whom there is insufficient usable evidence to meet the high threshold to support a successful criminal prosecution. These detainees should be returned to Bagram and detained in a NATO-run facility until the cessation of hostilities or they are no longer deemed a threat. There is no reason the United States should bear the sole burden of detaining belligerents in that conflict. This is a task better handled by many nations working together.Adam Schiff, D-Pasadena, represents the 29th District in the House of Representatives. Schiff is a member of the House Select Committee on Intelligence, the Judiciary Committee, and the Appropriations Committee. He wrote this article for the Mercury News.
01.08.09	01.08.09 Schiff Introduces Bill to Pay Tribute to "Go for Broke" Regiments Thursday, January 08, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Bill to Pay Tribute to “Go for Broke” Regiments Bill honors Japanese-American World War II veteransWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff introduced legislation to pay tribute to the Japanese-American 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, for their dedicated service to our nation during World War II by awarding them the Congressional Gold Medal. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’s highest civilian honor. “These men served with pride, courage and conviction, waging a war on two fronts – abroad against a forceful and oppressive fascism, and at home against the intolerance of racial injustice,” said Schiff. “At a time when they could have easily turned their backs on a country which had seemingly turned its back on them, these men chose the nobler, bolder, and more difficult route. It is long past due that Congress recognize their heroic efforts with Congress’s most prestigious award.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, 4,000 Bronze Starts and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.Last year as part of the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act (H.R. 2638) Rep. Schiff secured $4 million for the construction of the Go For Broke National Education Center in Los Angles. The Go For Broke National Education Center will serve the roughly 16,000 Go For Broke veterans and their families by documenting their oral histories, providing volunteer veterans at the Go For Broke Monument in Los Angeles, and by conducting teacher training so this history can properly make its way into classrooms and teachers’ lesson plans.
01.08.09	01.08.09 Honor the "Go For Broke" Regiment CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, January 08, 2009Madam Speaker, I rise today to introduce legislation recognizing the Japanese-American 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the ``Go For Broke'' regiments, for their dedicated service to our Nation during World War II.These brave men served with pride, courage and conviction, waging a war on two fronts--abroad against a forceful and oppressive fascism, and at home against the intolerance of racial injustice. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor incited doubts about the loyalty of Japanese-Americans, these brave men who enlisted to fight to protect our Nation were faced with segregated training conditions, families and friends relocated to internment camps, and repeated questions about their combat abilities. At a time when they could have easily turned their backs on a country which had seemingly turned its back on them, these men chose the nobler, bolder, and more difficult route.The ``Go For Broke'' regiments went on to earn several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 29 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 4,000 Bronze Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier's Medals, and over 4,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.To answer the call of duty requires exceptional courage and sacrifice, but to respond with a vigor and persistence unaffected by those who sought to malign and impede their every achievement reveals an incredible spirit and admirable will. Please join me in honoring these courageous men by supporting the granting of a Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to the U.S. Army's 100th Infantry.
01.07.09	01.07.09 Schiff, Giffords Introduce Bill to Allow One of America's Largest Consumers of Energy to Dramatically Expand its Purchase of Clean Affordable Wind and Solar Energy Wednesday, January 07, 2009 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Giffords Introduce Bill to Allow One of America's Largest Consumers of Energy to Dramatically Expand its Purchase of Clean Affordable Wind and Solar EnergyWashington, DC – Demonstrating the importance of investing in clean alternative energy, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA)and Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ) introduced a bill (H.R. 175) on the first day of the 111th Congress to strongly expand the federal government's ability to purchase solar, wind, and other alternative energies for government buildings. The measure, introduced yesterday, would repeal a law that limits government energy contracts to 10 year periods, an antiquated provision which hinders the government’s ability to purchase green energy.“The federal government must practice what it preaches,” said Schiff. “In Washington we have often called on Americans to use more clean alternative energy solutions. This bill will send a message that the federal government, one of the largest consumers of energy, can do its part too. It is a common sense measure that will help save taxpayer money, protect our environment, create green jobs, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil.”“Through its procurement process, the federal government has tremendous power to influence the demand for new technologies,” said Giffords, a member of the House Science and Technology Committee. “By harnessing the power of federal purchasing on behalf of renewable energy, we can provide a significant boost to this emerging industry and reduce the government’s environmental impact at the same time.”The federal government is one of the biggest energy consumers in America, spending more than $10 billion annually. The General Services Administration (GSA) manages most non-military federal properties and has begun the process of greening federal buildings, in part by placing solar panels on some buildings.However, installing local solar or wind energy requires a large investment upfront. Even if an installation would pay for itself over its lifetime, the initial investment is often too costly for an annual budget.The private sector has already found a solution to this problem: Many new solar projects are installed, owned and operated by a solar services provider, which then sells the power at a constant rate to the customer. With this model, the customer gets clean, local, uninterruptible power and protection against increasing energy bills, without a large initial outlay. However, the GSA has difficulty signing such contracts because of a statutory requirement that any energy contracts it signs can last at most 10 years -- too short a period for service providers to recoup their investment.H.R. 175 would extend the length of GSA renewable energy contracts to up to 30 years. This simple fix would allow one of the largest consumers of energy in America to invest in clean energy, bringing green-collar jobs to hundreds of communities across the country.
01.06.09	01.06.09 The Situation in Gaza CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESTuesday, January 06, 2009The State of Israel has a right to defend its territory and its people from attack, whether that attack emanates from another sovereign nation, or, as in this case, from a terrorist organization that seized control of Gaza in a bloody putsch eighteen months ago. Hamas clearly chose to escalate its conflict against Israel by unilaterally declaring an end to the ceasefire that was implemented last June and launching a large-scale rocket attack on Israeli population centers. The Israeli government exercised great forbearance in the weeks prior to the formal breakdown of the ceasefire, which Hamas was already violating repeatedly, and had the international community more strongly condemned these attacks and taken action to stop them, the current Israeli offensive may have been unnecessary. But, Hamas bears ultimate responsibility for provoking this attack and for putting 1.5 million Palestinians in harm’s way – a fact that Arab leaders from Egypt to Saudi Arabia have noted.Along with millions of Americans, I grieve the terrible loss of life of innocent Israelis and Palestinians. Hamas’s decision to fire rockets from populated areas and Israeli strikes on those targets have resulted in many civilian casualties, and our hearts go out to all the innocents who have suffered. It is too early to tell if Israel’s military actions will quell the threat of rocket attacks from Gaza and shut down smuggling routes from Egypt. The conflict in Lebanon proved how difficult this can be and a strong international effort will be necessary to avoid a recurrence of missile strikes in both theaters. This will require a level of resolution thus far not demonstrated by the international community. Israel’s long-term security can only be guaranteed by a successful peace process that leads to the creation of a Palestinian state living side-by-side and in peace with Israel. President-elect Obama has committed himself to reinvigorating the search for peace and it is my hope that a timely conclusion of the present hostilities will allow the new President to begin these efforts from the first days of his administration.
10.27.08	10.27.08 Schiff Receives High Marks on Voting Record Monday, October 27, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Receives High Marks on Voting Record Washington D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) has received praise from various advocacy organizations for his outstanding voting record on veterans, environmental, civil rights, and women’s rights issues. Rep. Schiff received positive reviews for votes he cast in Congress from the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Action Fund, the League of Conservation Voters, the American Association of University Women, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights and the Human Rights Campaign. “These advocacy organizations do superb work promoting values shared by my constituents, and informing the public and public officials on the local, state and federal level. I thank them for their work and for recognizing my efforts on behalf of the people of the 29th Congressional district.”On environmental issues, Rep. Schiff received a 100 percent for his voting record in 2008 from the League of Conservation Voters (LCV). The LCV advocates for sound environmental and energy policies. Each year the LCV issues a “National Environmental Scorecard” that shows how Members of Congress voted on the most important conservation and energy issues brought before the House. Rep. Schiff received an “A+” for votes he cast in favor of U.S. troops, Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans, and military families in 2008. The grade was handed out by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Action Fund (IAVA). The IAVA’s scorecard was based on 13 key votes in the House on veterans’ issues in the 110th Congress. Every Member of Congress was graded on his or her leadership and voting record on the most critical issues facing Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. Rep. Schiff was one of about 150 legislators who received a perfect score, a grade of A+. Rep. Schiff also received a 100 percent grade for his voting record on civil rights issues from the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights. The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights is a civil rights coalition made up of nearly 200 organizations representing persons of color, women, children, labor unions, individuals with disabilities, older Americans, major religious groups, gays and lesbians, and civil liberties and human right groups. They advocate on behalf of policies that work to advance equal justice and equal opportunity. Congressman Schiff received a similarly strong report on his civil rights and anti-discrimination voting record from the Human Rights Campaign (HRC). The American Association of University Women (AAUW) gave Rep. Schiff a perfect score for critical votes he cast in the 110th Congress. The AAUW Congressional Voting Record scored Members of Congress on their votes on Pell grant funding, vocational education reauthorization, funding for higher education, the federal marriage amendment, and reproductive rights. The AAUW has more than 100,000 bipartisan members including more than 20,000 in California.
10.17.08	10.17.08 President Signs into Law Schiff, Waxman, Gallegly Provisions Requiring Stricter Standards on Collision Avoidance Systems Implementation on Major U.S. Rail Lines Friday, October 17, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 President Signs into Law Schiff, Waxman, Gallegly Provisions Requiring Stricter Standards on Collision Avoidance Systems Implementation on Major U.S. Rail Lines Bill passes quickly in wake of deadly Metrolink-Union Pacific crash in ChatsworthWashington, DC – Yesterday, the President signed a bill into law, which included provisions introduced in the House by Representatives Adam Schiff, Henry A. Waxman and Elton Gallegly to require all major U.S. railroads to install “positive train control” systems designed to help avoid collisions. These provisions came in response to the recent Metrolink-Union Pacific crash in Chatsworth. Similar legislation was passed earlier this year, but it did not contain strict enough penalties. That bill (H.R. 2095) was amended to include many of the provisions introduced by Reps. Schiff, Waxman and Gallegly before it received final approval in the House and Senate in late September. “The legislation should ensure that proper safeguards will be put in place,” said Schiff. “They are tragically overdue and commuters deserve no less.”“This law is an important step forward for railroad safety, but our work does not end here,” Rep. Waxman added. “We owe it to the families affected by the Metrolink crash and to all rail commuters to continue pressing for its timely implementation and enforcement.”"As I've said before, this is Step One," Gallegly said. "When passenger and freight trains share a single north- and southbound track there are inherent dangers that must be addressed. The National Transportation Safety Board report on the Sept. 12 Chatsworth crash will give my colleagues and me an idea of what, if any, further legislation is needed."In January 2005, a Metrolink train in Glendale in Rep. Schiff’s district collided with an automobile that was abandoned on the tracks. That collision killed 11 people and was the deadliest Metrolink crash in its history, until the tragic collision in Chatsworth. Rep. Waxman’s district includes Chatsworth, the site of the collision that took 25 lives and injured 135 people, 40 of them critically. Twenty-one of those who died in the Chatsworth accident had lived in Rep. Gallegly’s district. Rail safety experts say a positive train control system could have prevented the collision of a Metrolink commuter train with a Union Pacific freight train. The provisions introduced in the House by Reps. Schiff, Waxman, and Gallegly were first introduced in the Senate by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer. The provisions included in the bill drafted by Reps. Schiff, Waxman, and Gallegly will: Require both commuter and passenger railroads and freight train that share a track to implement positive train control systems; Requires installation of these systems on all other passenger rail lines and rail lines used to transport hazardous materials; and Authorize the Secretary of Transportation to assess fines up to $100,000 on rail carriers that fail to comply. In the wake of the Chatsworth train collision, the bill also mandates a safety analysis on using cell phones and other devices in the cab of the train and reforms the hours of service rule to ensure that train conductors and other personnel receive adequate rest on the job. Background: The National Transportation Safety Board has called for installation of positive train control systems to avert collisions, particularly on high-risk track shared by freight and passenger trains. Here is how positive train control systems work: Digital communications are combined with Global Positioning System (GPS) technology to monitor train locations and speeds. These systems can detect excessive speed, improperly aligned switches, whether trains are on the wrong track, unauthorized train movements, and whether trains have missed signals to slow or stop. If engineers do not comply with signals, the system automatically brings the trains to a stop. Positive train control systems have been put to use only in limited areas, including the Northeast and between Chicago and Detroit. California has no positive control systems although Southern California has the most track shared by freight and passenger trains in the United States.
09.24.08	09.24.08 Schiff Works to Honor Japanese-American World War II Veterans Wednesday, September 24, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Works to Honor Japanese-American World War II Veterans Schiff introduces bill to pay tribute to “Go for Broke” regiments on the same day he secures funding for a museum in their honorWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff introduced legislation to pay tribute to the Japanese-American 100th Infantry Battalion and 442nd Regimental Combat Team, commonly known as the “Go For Broke” regiments, for their dedicated service to our nation during World War II, by awarding them the Congressional Gold Medal. The Congressional Gold Medal is Congress’s highest civilian honor. Today the House also passed the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act (H.R. 2638) which included $4 million requested by Rep. Schiff for the construction of the Go For Broke National Education Center in Los Angles. “These men served with pride, courage and conviction, waging a war on two fronts – abroad against a forceful and oppressive fascism, and at home against the intolerance of racial injustice,” said Schiff. “At a time when they could have easily turned their backs on a country which had seemingly turned its back on them, these men chose the nobler, bolder, and more difficult route. It is long past due that Congress recognize their heroic efforts with Congress’s most prestigious award.”The Go For Broke regiments earned several awards for their distinctive service in combat, including: 7 Presidential Unit Citations, 21 Medals of Honor, 52 Distinguished Service Crosses, 560 Silver Stars, 22 Legion of Merit Medals, 15 Soldier’s Medals, and nearly 10,000 Purple Hearts, among numerous additional distinctions. For their size and length of service, the 100th Infantry Battalion and the 442nd Regimental Combat Team were the most decorated U.S. military units of the war. However, these regiments have yet to be honored with a Congressional Gold Medal.The funding secured by Rep. Schiff will help construct the Go For Broke National Education Center. Currently, Go For Broke veterans are the docents at a monument in Los Angeles in their honor. As docents, they tell their story of service and sacrifice to the thousands of school children and general public visitors to the Go For Broke Monument. “The Go For Broke National Education Center will ensure that these servicemen are never forgotten,” said Schiff. “This museum will immortalize their bravery and patriotism and continue to teach future generations their great story.” The Go For Broke National Education Center will serve the roughly 16,000 Go For Broke veterans and their families by documenting their oral histories, by providing volunteer veterans at the Go For Broke Monument in Los Angeles, and by conducting teacher training so this history can properly make its way into classrooms and teachers’ lesson plans.
09.19.08	09.19.08 Schiff, Waxman, Gallegly Introduce Legislation to Require Collision Avoidance Systems on All Major U.S. Rail Lines Friday, September 19, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Waxman, Gallegly Introduce Legislation to Require Collision Avoidance Systems on All Major U.S. Rail Lines Washington, DC – Coming on the heels of last Friday’s train collision, the most deadly in Metrolink’s history, Representatives Adam Schiff, Henry A. Waxman and Elton Gallegly introduced legislation late yesterday that would require all major U.S. railroads to install “positive train control” systems designed to help avoid collisions. The Rail Collision Prevention Act is a companion measure to a bill introduced by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer earlier this week. “First and foremost, my thoughts and prayers are with those affected by this tragic event. Last Friday’s accident may have been avoided had the proper technology been in place,” said Schiff. “I have been fighting in Congress for years to ensure better railroad safety measures are adopted, and it saddens me that it takes such a terrible accident to compel needed reforms. This is a common sense measure that will protect lives, and I hope we can expedite its passage in the waning days of this session.”“This accident was an enormous tragedy. My thoughts and prayers go out to the families and loved ones of those who have been lost or injured,” Rep. Waxman added. “Rail passengers in California and across the United States need to have the utmost confidence that all steps are being taken to ensure their safety.” “I offer my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this tragedy and my hopes for a fast recovery to those who are injured,” Gallegly said. “As the investigation continues, there probably will be other measures Congress will take to make rail travel safer. This bill is a good and important first step. I assure the families we will do everything we can to determine the cause and to ensure that something like this never happens again.”In January 2005, a Metrolink train in Glendale in Rep. Schiff’s district collided with an automobile that was abandoned on the tracks. That collision killed 11 people and was the deadliest Metrolink crash in its history, until the tragic collision last week. Rep. Waxman’s district includes Chatsworth, the site of the collision that took 25 lives and injured 135 people, 40 of them critically. Twenty-one of those who died in Friday’s accident had lived in Rep. Gallegly’s district. Rail safety experts say a positive train control system could have prevented Friday’s collision of a Metrolink commuter train with a Union Pacific freight train. The Rail Collision Prevention Act would: Require commuter railroads and major freight railroads to develop plans for implementing positive train control systems within one year of the legislation’s enactment. Set a deadline of December 31, 2012 for these systems to be in place on rail lines designated by the Department of Transportation as high-risk, involving use by major freight and passenger railroads; Set a deadline of December 31, 2014 for installation of these systems on all other passenger rail lines and rail lines used to transport hazardous materials; and Authorize the Secretary of Transportation to assess fines up to $100,000 on rail carriers that fail to comply. Also require that these plans must be submitted to the Secretary of Transportation for approval within one year of the legislation’s enactment. The House and Senate passed similar legislation (H.R. 2095) earlier this year, but it did not contain strict enough penalties or prompt implementation dates. A final vote on that previous approved bill is likely in the House next week, and provisions from the bill introduced today may be added to H.R. 2095 before it is sent to the President to be signed into law. Last Friday’s crash made it clear that we must take these steps immediately, and Reps. Schiff, Waxman and Gallegly decided to join Senators Feinstein and Boxer in introducing this bill. Background: The National Transportation Safety Board has called for installation of positive train control systems to avert collisions, particularly on high-risk track shared by freight and passenger trains. Here is how positive train control systems work: Digital communications are combined with Global Positioning System (GPS) technology to monitor train locations and speeds; These systems can detect excessive speed; improperly aligned switches, whether trains are on the wrong track, unauthorized train movements, and whether trains have missed signals to slow or stop. If engineers do not comply with signals, the system automatically brings the trains to a stop. Positive train control systems have been put to use only in limited areas, including the Northeast and between Chicago and Detroit. California has no positive control systems although Southern California has the most track shared by freight and passenger trains in the United States.
09.09.08	09.09.08 Rep. Schiff Honors Lauren Arana, Tenth Grade Student from Glendale's Hoover High School CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESTuesday, September 09, 2008Mr. Speaker, I rise today with great appreciation and admiration for Hoover High School student Lauren Arana, who saved her friend's life earlier this year. I am truly proud to have Lauren, who is now a 10th grade student from Glendale, as a constituent of mine. On May 14, Lauren received a text message from a friend of hers in Nebraska who said that she was going to commit suicide. Lauren did not hesitate for a second in responding to this call for help. She immediately took the initiative to try and contact her friend's mother, and when she was unsuccessful, she contacted her friend's school in Sioux City, Nebraska. Upon receiving Lauren's call, an assistant principal stepped into action and went to the troubled student's home, where he found her with a knife to her neck and having already consumed antifreeze. Thankfully, due to Lauren's swift actions, the assistant principal was able to intervene in time to save her friend's life. This is a remarkable story, and demonstrates Lauren's extraordinary character. Youth suicide is a tragic problem plaguing our Nation. It is the third leading cause of death for 15-to 24-year-olds and the sixth leading cause for 5- to 14-year-olds. Lauren's heroic intervention is a perfect example of how anyone should react to such a call for help. We should all learn from this story which, thankfully, avoided a tragic ending.
08.12.08	08.12.08 Rep. Schiff to Host Economic Roundtable Discussion Featuring KNX Radio's Frank Mottek and Chief Operating Officer of the FDIC John Bovenzi Tuesday, August 12, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Rep. Schiff to Host Economic Roundtable Discussion Featuring KNX Radio’s Frank Mottek and Chief Operating Officer of the FDIC John BovenziWashington, D.C. – On Wednesday August 20th, Rep. Schiff will host a panel discussion moderated by Frank Mottek of KNX 1070 Newsradio, featuring John Bovenzi, Chief Operating Officer (FDIC) and Interim Director of IndyMac Federal Bank and experts in housing, the stock market and energy issues. The panel discussion will focus on the current economic climate and Rep. Schiff and the panelists will answer questions regarding IndyMac Bank and the security of bank deposits generally, the volatility of the stock market, oil prices, foreclosure and other housing issues, and more. “Many people in our community, as in the rest of the nation, are deeply concerned with the state of the economy and the price of gas,” said Schiff. “These have been difficult times with the collapse of IndyMac Bank and record high energy costs. I am pleased that Frank Mottek of KNX News Radio, John Bovenzi of the FDIC and IndyMac Federal Bank and other experts who have agreed to participate in this panel discussion to help us better understand the current economic climate and provide tips on how to best get through the current economic downturn.”What: Rep. Schiff hosts panel discussion on the economy moderated by KNX Newsradio’s Frank Mottek and featuring John Bovenzi, Chief Operating Officer (FDIC); Alberto G. Alvarado, Director, Los Angeles District Office of the U.S. Small Business Administration; Dr. Raphael Bostic, Professor, USC Lusk Center for Real Estate; Judy Dugan, Research Director, Consumer Watchdog; Dr. Lawrence Harris, Professor, Finance and Business Economy, USC Marshall School of Business. Marc Jones, Rehab Construction Manager, Pasadena Neighborhood Housing Services; Martha Lucey, CEO & Executive Director, ByDesign Financial Solutions; When: Wednesday, Aug. 20, 2008 -- 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. Where: Pasadena Senior Center -- 85 E. Holly St. Pasadena, CA 91103 Free and open to the public. Please RSVP to Rep. Schiff's Pasadena office by calling 626-304-2727.
07.24.08	07.24.08 The Fight for Our Future CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, July 24, 2008 Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, in the days after the 9/11 attacks, politicians, journalists and assorted experts rushed to claim that America and the world had entered a new era and that the battle with al Qaeda would define the first decades of the 21st century.As the fight against al Qaeda has continued and intensified, we have come to see the impact of that fight on a key national security paradigm of the post Cold War era: the quest for energy security in an industrializing and ever-flattering world.The United States has long recognized that our global leadership and economic strength depended on cheap, abundant energy from the Middle East. Disruptions to that supply as a result of the 1973 oil embargo, the Iranian revolution of 1979 and the 1990 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait had demonstrated our vulnerability to events halfway around the world. Rather than taking the steps necessary to wean ourselves from Middle East oil, we sought to create stability in the region by aligning ourselves with pro-Western autocrats whose powerful internal security forces kept restive populations in check.Capacity and price, the first high and the second low, stayed our hand. Cheap and plentiful oil powered the American economy to preeminence while solar, wind and biomass energy were expensive. Environmental concerns, including increasing evidence that the burning of fossil fuels was altering the Earth's climate, were relegated to secondary status.All of that has now changed. The 9/11 attacks and the Iraq war have highlighted the seething political instability in the Middle East. The rise of China and India have increased competition for oil even as the global supply has remained stable. Finally, the Earth's climate is changing more rapidly and more profoundly than many scientists had forecasted, leading to a global consensus that humanity must take immediate steps to curtail the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gasses.This confluence of political, economic and environmental factors is one of the greatest challenges that this Nation has faced in its history, but just as we have risen to meet other challenges--from the Revolution to the Civil War to the Great Depression and the totalitarian dictatorships of the 20th century--I am confident that we will emerge from this crisis stronger and better positioned than our economic rivals to prosper in this new world.As for the other problems that we have faced, finding a solution will require us to put our faith in American ingenuity and in our enormous capacity to fund and focus research and development efforts. In the last 2 years, we have dramatically increased funding for research into renewable energy , but we must do even more by declaring a new Apollo Project for energy independence.Even as we provide incentives to accelerate scientific research into reducing the cost of renewable energy , we must also act now to reduce our fossil fuel imports. The cheapest and quickest way to accomplish this is to reduce energy and fuel use through fuel efficiency, energy efficiency, conservation, and green development. We can also reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and foreign oil in the short term by a responsible increase in domestic production, but this must be viewed for what it is--a short-term expedient and a bridge to a future based on renewable energy .We cannot convert our economy from one dependent on fossil fuels to one that is based on renewable energy overnight, but we must take the position that our continued use of oil and gas will be largely phased out in the coming decades and that renewed, environmentally responsible exploration is intended to ease the conversion to a post-fossil fuel economy.As a threshold matter, we must improve the fuel efficiency of our cars and trucks, as Congress mandated last December, and develop plug-in hybrid vehicles to drive further efficiency. Doing this will not only break our addiction to oil, it will also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent.This effort should be undertaken in conjunction with the national effort to improve our public transportation system, which still receives just a fraction of the investment that we put into roads. Congress has acted to increase public transit, but more needs to be done both at a local level and, more importantly, at State and regional levels.We must also make our homes more energy efficient by installing rooftop solar panels, switching to energy -efficient appliances and enabling consumers and businesses to pay lower prices for electricity at night so that we can reduce the daytime spike in electricity usage that requires utilities to keep high-price power generation on call.Companies have invested and workers have trained themselves in industries that were supported by our past Tax Code and its provisions. Climate change legislation will change those incentives, and while many high-tech American industries will prosper, some industries will suffer. For example, in my home State of California, solar and geothermal are growing by leaps and bounds. There are start-ups throughout the State building solar energy plants and installing solar energy systems. The silicon shortage that has slowed solar development in the last 3 years is fading as new factories come online.But this new development is still dependent on the tax incentives that Congress has still not extended past the end of the year. We must not let these tax incentives expire and, instead, extend them for several years so that this expanding industry can become a driver in the economy.Mr. Speaker, my constituents are telling me they want Congress to take the steps necessary to transition our Nation to clean, renewable energy . I urge us to do exactly that.They have told me that the energy crisis has imposed enormous hardship on them and on millions of other Americans. But, as in crises past, they also believe that our ingenuity, our can-do spirit and optimism will enable us to bequeath to our children and grandchildren a world that is cleaner and more prosperous. I share their hopes and their determination.
07.17.08	07.17.08 Schiff Urges Constituents With Accounts At Indymac Bank To Contact Him If They Need Help With FDIC Thursday, July 17, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Urges Constituents With Accounts At Indymac Bank To Contact Him If They Need Help With FDICWASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Adam Schiff is encouraging constituents affected by the failure of IndyMac Bank, based in Pasadena, which was seized on July 11, 2008 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to contact him if they need help with the FDIC. FDIC IndyMac has a toll-free assistance hotline at 1-866-806-5919 which is open daily from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. or online, but Congressman Schiff wants to make sure that constituents are able to get the information they need.People with concerns and questions about the IndyMac takeover or who have been unable to receive answers to an inquiry with the FDIC can contact Rep. Schiff’s Pasadena Office at 626-304-2727. “These tough economic times are taking a toll on everyone, and customers of Indybank are understandably concerned about their hard-earned savings,” said Schiff. “The federal government through the FDIC has guaranteed much of the money held by IndyMac, and it has set up a special hotline for IndyMac bank customers. But I want to encourage people affected by the bank failure to call me if they have any problems getting through to the FDIC or related questions. We can help you get answers.”Customers of IndyMac have been withdrawing deposits at a high rate causing panic at many branches. In the week before the takeover customers withdrew $1.3 billion in assets, which many believe was a catalyst for the bank’s closure. Customers at IndyMac Bank and many other banks should understand that much -- but not necessarily all -- of their money is insured by the federal government.The FDIC will cover all IndyMac deposits and those at other FDIC insured banks, including checking, NOW and savings accounts, money market deposit accounts, and certificates of deposit (CDs), dollar for dollar, including any accrued interest, up to the $100,000 for individual accounts. However, certain types of accounts have an insured limit greater than $100,000. The following is a list of insurance limits for different accounts. Individuals can calculate their insurance coverage using the FDIC's online Electronic Deposit Insurance Estimator at: www2.fdic.gov/edie Joint Accounts, deposit accounts owned by two or more people, are insured up to $100,000 per person on the account. A Joint Account between a husband and wife would be insured up to $200,000 for example. Individual Retirement Accounts (IRA’s) are insured up to $250,000 per depositor per insured bank. Revocable Trusts, such as living trusts and payable-on-death trusts are often insured for more than $100,000 per account, for further details about the amount insured, which can vary, contact the FDICSince the start of the FDIC in 1933, no depositor has ever lost a penny of insured deposits. To check whether your bank or savings association is insured by FDIC, call toll-free 1-877-275-3342, use "Bank Find" at www.fdic.gov/deposit/index.html, or look for the official FDIC sign where deposits are received.
07.14.08	07.14.08 House Approves Schiff Measures to Eliminate DNA Backlog and Solve Crimes Monday, July 14, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Approves Schiff Measures to Eliminate DNA Backlog and Solve Crimes Washington, DC – In light of recent developments in the JonBenet Ramsey murder case highlighting the effectiveness of DNA technology, the House today passed “The Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2008” (H.R. 5057). The bill included four amendments authored by Rep. Schiff that will improve DNA tools to help catch rapists, murderers and other violent criminals and help reduce the backlog of DNA samples waiting to be screened by federal and state investigators. Most significantly, the bill includes an amendment authored by Rep. Schiff that would provide states with an incentive to collect DNA profiles from those arrested for murder or felony sex crimes. The bill will now be sent to the Senate for its approval before it is sent to the President to be signed into law. “DNA matching technology is one on the greatest advancements in forensic science since the fingerprint,” said Schiff. “DNA matching technology has the potential to be one of the most effective tools in catching violent criminals. We can use this technology far more successfully to track down murderers and rapists. Clearing the backlog of DNA samples and collecting more data from violent felons will go a long way towards finally solving hundreds or thousands of cold case murders and sexual assaults.”Rep. Schiff’s first amendment included in the House Judiciary Committee passed bill would create an incentive program for states to collect DNA profiles from those arrested for murder and serious sex crimes. Many studies have indicated that violent crimes could be significantly reduced if DNA profiles were collected from individuals arrested for felonies. A 2005 Chicago study examining the criminal activities of only 8 individuals found that 60 violent crimes could have been prevented, including 53 murders and rapes, if DNA samples were submitted for all felony arrests. Currently twelve states collect such samples, such as California. These states are greatly increasing the power of the National DNA network, while states with far narrower collection regimes are making the federal database less efficient. Rep. Schiff’s amendment would reward those states that enact an enhanced collection process by making them eligible for an increase in federal law enforcement funds.The second amendment included in the bill would call for the issuance of new standards governing the use of the federal DNA index in order to provide for the expedited uploading of DNA profiles by State and local forensic laboratories. The amendment would also direct an examination of the feasibility of other measures that would greatly expedite analysis and uploading of DNA profiles, as well as backlog reduction.Rep. Schiff’s next amendment that was part of the bill was in response to a disturbing report that found that many DNA samples from crime scenes that matched convicted criminals were not being pursued by law enforcement and prosecutors in a timely fashion, leading to additional crimes before a criminal was apprehended. Rep. Schiff’s amendment calls for the Department of Justice’s Inspector General to investigate and report on how many DNA database matches are followed up on by law enforcement and how many are ultimately brought to the attention of prosecutors. This report will determine the reasons why matches were not pursued accordingly and determine the resulting impact on the criminal justice system – namely, whether other crimes were committed that could have been prevented if the matches were pursued more aggressively.Rep. Schiff’s last amendment will help states which develop permanent funding sources to eliminate DNA backlogs. It authorizes the Attorney General to provide federal matching funds to states that have implemented permanent funding mechanisms that generate funds dedicated to analyzing DNA samples for law enforcement purposes.
07.14.08	07.14.08 House Approves Schiff Legislation to Extend Background Checks for Volunteers Working with Children Monday, July 14, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Approves Schiff Legislation to Extend Background Checks for Volunteers Working with ChildrenWASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to respond to safety concerns, the House passed legislation championed by Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) to extend a highly successful program to establish a nationally-accessible background check system for youth-serving organizations. The bill, the Criminal History Background Checks Pilot Extension Act of 2008 (S. 3218), will make background checks for volunteers working with children reliable, affordable, and comprehensive. The bill approved today was the Senate companion measure authored by Senators Joseph Biden (D-DE) and Arlen Specter (R-PA), which was previously passed by the Senate. The bill will now be sent to the President to be signed into law.“We are fortunate to live in a country where millions of volunteers generously make time to participate in community service,” said Schiff, a former national Board Member of Big Brothers and Big Sisters of America. “But with so many volunteers working with children we need to ensure that child predators are not preying on innocent children through the guise of volunteerism. Children’s safety is paramount, and we need to make certain that those working with our youth have been thoroughly and properly screened.”The previous Child Safety Pilot program is set to expire at the end of this month, and this bill will extend the program for another 6 months. The pilot program has performed over 40,000 fingerprint-based Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) background checks since 2003. In 6.1 percent of cases, over 2000 individuals, potential volunteers were found to have a criminal record of concern, including very serious crimes like sexual abuse of minors, assault, murder, and major drug offenses. In many cases, only a fingerprint-based national background check could reveal these criminal histories.The pilot has been a great success, but it is not a permanent measure. This is now the third occassion that Congress has acted to extend the pilot. Congress has felt the need to act because currently only one-third of states allow mentoring organizations to access FBI searches and some of the states which do allow access charge fees that are too high for small non-profits. For a majority of youth-serving organizations there is no way to perform reliable, timely, and affordable national background checks on volunteers, outside of the pilot program. To solve this problem Rep. Schiff has introduced the Child Protection Improvements Act (H.R. 5606) which would expand and improve the pilot program. This bill is also sponsored by Senators Joseph Biden (D-DE), Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Orin Hatch (R-UT) in the Senate.More specifically H.R. 5606 will: Ensure that youth-serving organizations of all kinds, all across the country, have access to FBI fingerprint searches; Streamline the process of obtaining nationwide background checks through the creation of a new national Applicant Processing Center; and; Engage the expertise of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in reviewing the criminal records and making determinations as to whether the individuals should be allowed to work with children.The measure has been endorsed by American Camp Association, Afterschool Alliance, America’s Promise Alliance, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, Boys and Girls Clubs of America, Communities In Schools, Inc., First Focus, MENTOR/National Mentoring Partnership, National Collaboration for Youth, YMCA of the USA.
06.30.08	06.30.08 Appropriations Committee Approves Schiff's Request for Funds for Two Local Small Business Assistance Programs Monday, June 30, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Appropriations Committee Approves Schiff’s Request for Funds for Two Local Small Business Assistance Programs Washington, DC – Representative Adam Schiff helped secure federal funding for two small business assistance and job training initiatives in a spending bill approved by the Appropriations Committee last week. Rep. Schiff, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, requested the funds in the Fiscal Year 2009 Financial Services Appropriations Act, which will now be sent to the House Floor for a vote before the full House. The bill included $100,000 for the Verdugo Workforce Investment Board and $100,000 for the Valley Economic Center. “This funding will help give local businesses the tools they need to succeed and thrive, and work to strengthen our local economy,” said Schiff. “The Verdugo Workforce Investment Board and the Valley Economic Center have proven track records in helping small businesses, workers, and entrepreneurs succeed in an increasingly competitive marketplace.”The Verdugo Workforce Investment Board provides business assistance, job training and job placement services to residents and businesses in the Burbank, Glendale, and La Canada region. Many of the businesses receiving assistance from the Verdugo Workforce Investment Board are struggling to remain out of debt. The staff of the board conducts outreach, analyzes company needs, and refers the company’s management to resources and services to help companies remain stable. The board focuses on small businesses of 25 employees or less and assists local businesses, workforce, and job seekers. Valley Economic Center (VEC) will use the funding to operate its Women’s Business Center (WBC) which provides technical assistance and access to capital to emerging and existing female entrepreneurs at its satellite facility in Glendale. In the last year VEC and WBC provided consulting to 672 clients, trained 5,138 clients, created 44 start-ups, and created 44 new jobs. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
06.26.08	06.26.08 Schiff Secures Funding for Local Law Enforcement to Help Improve Safety and Investigation Efforts Thursday, June 26, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Secures Funding for Local Law Enforcement to Help Improve Safety and Investigation Efforts Washington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff announced that the House Appropriations Committee approved funding for several local law enforcement initiatives to establish a local forensic DNA laboratory and institute, to purchase protective equipment for SWAT team members and to upgrade investigation equipment. The funds for Glendale, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department Station in Temple City, Monterey Park, and California State University, Los Angeles were requested by Rep. Schiff and included in the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations bill. The bill will now be sent to the House Floor for a vote. “DNA evidence is one of the most powerful tools we have to track down murderers and rapists. The funding in this bill will help speed DNA analysis by establishing a new lab in Glendale and expanding the institute at Cal State LA. It will also provide life-saving equipment to law enforcement."The bill included $1 million for the City of Glendale for a Forensic DNA Laboratory. The City of Glendale has a backlog of almost 1,000 cases with preserved DNA evidence. This funding would establish a DNA laboratory within the Glendale police facility which would provide a timely return of DNA analysis, crime evidence, and cold case evidence. While the DNA lab would be located in Glendale, it would also service the neighboring cities of Burbank and Pasadena and would be capable of accepting evidence from many of other regional communities as well. The bill appropriated $1 million for Cal State, Los Angeles for its California Forensic Science Institute (CFSI). This funding will enable CFSI to become a training and technical support center for local public crime laboratories in California. The funds will provide start-up resources for CFSI, and will be used for forensic science curriculum materials and staff training programs. The bill provides $50,000 to the Monterey Park Fire Department for protective equipment. This equipment will enable Monterey Park fire personnel to work with law enforcement agencies to set up staging areas in the event of an emergency. In addition, the Fire Department provides tactical medics to be a part of the Monterey Park Police Department’s Special Weapons and Tactics and Special Response Team (SWAT/SRT). These firefighters enter dangerous areas under conditions that could inflict life-threatening damage, and the funding will also be used to purchase body-armor for this work.Lastly, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Temple City Station will receive $35,000 for a Mobile Law Enforcement Automobile Investigative System. Temple City Station serves a population of 200,000 and will use this funding to purchase a system to improve investigation capabilities. The unit will be installed on a sheriff's car and will help recognize and identify suspicious vehicles and will be used for investigative purposes.
06.25.08	06.25.08 Schiff Introduces Resolution Calling on Congress to Condemn and Isolate the Government of Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe Wednesday, June 25, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Resolution Calling on Congress to Condemn and Isolate the Government of Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe Washington, DC – Late Yesterday, Representative Adam Schiff introduced a resolution (H. Res. 1301) calling for international action to isolate the government of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe. This resolution comes in response to the worsening situation in Zimbabwe where opposition presidential candidate, Morgan Tsvangirai has been forced to drop out of Friday's planned runoff because of a campaign of violence, terror and intimidation by the government of Robert Mugabe.“The tragedy in Zimbabwe threatens the lives of millions. We cannot stand idly by while a dictator completes the destruction of a country that was once the ‘breadbasket of Africa,’” Schiff said. H. Res. 1301 calls upon the Government of Zimbabwe to reschedule the electoral runoff and to allow full and unfettered access to international electoral monitors before, during and after the balloting. It also calls upon the African Union and Southern African Development Community, consistent with their charters, to take immediate steps to sanction politically, diplomatically and economically the government of Robert Mugabe. Lastly, H. Res. 1301 calls upon the United Nations Security Council to take immediate steps to end the violence in Zimbabwe, press the government of Robert Mugabe to ensure that a new electoral runoff is conducted freely and fairly, and that in the absence of a free and fair election, urge President Mugabe to step down. President Mugabe and his party the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) have been in power for the past 28 years. During his tenure the economic output of Zimbabwe has decreased 40% and its unemployment is estimated at more than 80%. On March 29, 2008, Zimbabweans voiced their dissatisfaction with Mugabe's government during the country's presidential election. According to the Zimbabwe Election Commission (ZEC), Morgan Tsvangirai, leader of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) won 47.8 percent of the vote during the March 29, 2008 election and President Mugabe won only 43.2 percent. However, since neither candidate won over 50%, a runoff was declared. Since the announcement of the runoff, the violence in Zimbabwe has continued to escalate. Over 900 people have been tortured and 87 have been killed by government security forces. Earlier this week, Tsvangirai, who has been repeatedly assaulted by government agents over the past few years, was forced to leave the presidential race and seek refuge in the Dutch Embassy. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
06.25.08	06.25.08 Schiff Helps Secure Vital Funds for Clean Water and Other Environmental Efforts in Appropriations Bill Approved by Committee Wednesday, June 25, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Helps Secure Vital Funds for Clean Water and Other Environmental Efforts in Appropriations Bill Approved by CommitteeWashington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff helped secure more than $4.7 million in federal funding for local clean water and environmental restoration projects. Rep. Schiff, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, requested the funds in the Fiscal Year 2009 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, which passed the full committee this morning. “With one of the largest urban populations in the nation, our region needs to do all it can to protect and ensure clean drinking water and protect our environment,” Schiff said. “Environmental conservation and restoration goes hand in hand with ensuring clean water supplies. The more we do today to protect and conserve our environment, the more we can avoid drinking water contamination in the future. These funds will not only help protect the public’s health but will also make our region a cleaner, more beautiful place to live.” The San Gabriel Basin Restoration Fund will receive $4,000,000 for local clean water projects. The funds will be combined with other state and local funds and will be used to design, construct, and operate water projects to contain and treat contaminated groundwater in the San Gabriel Basin and prevent this contaminated water from reaching the Central Groundwater Basins. These basins serve as the primary source of drinking water for almost 3 million Los Angeles citizens. The City of Los Angeles will receive $433,000 for an ongoing study of potential restoration efforts within the Los Angeles River Watercourse - Headworks Area. The feasibility study is evaluating the potential for ecosystem and habitat restoration as part of the master plan for revitalizing the Los Angeles River. The bill allocates $200,000 for the partnership between U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the County of Los Angeles Department of Public Works to implement the Arroyo Seco Watershed Feasibility Study. The focus of this study is to address flood and stream management, habitat, water resources, and ecosystem restoration issues within this vital Southern California watershed. This funding will allow the Corps to conduct technical assessments of ecosystem restoration and watershed management programs to identify projects which will improve the management and conditions of the watershed.The Foothill Water Coalition will receive $100,000 for its Water Supply Reliability Program. This funding will assist with a study to identify programs aimed at system improvements over the next 15 years. The goal of the project is to bring surplus seasonal water into local groundwater basins, replenish diminished supplies, utilize available groundwater storage and enhance the efficiency and reliability of regional water delivery systems. The study area spans the foothill and valley watersheds of the San Gabriel and San Bernardino Mountains from La Canada in the west, to Rancho Cucamonga in the east. The construction of these projects will allow the region to more efficiently control groundwater contaminant migration while better managing storage and distribution of groundwater supplies. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
06.19.08	06.19.08 Exclusivity Provision First Introduced in Congress by Schiff and Flake Included in New FISA Compromise Legislation Thursday, June 19, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Exclusivity Provision First Introduced in Congress by Schiff and Flake Included in New FISA Compromise LegislationWashington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) welcomed the inclusion of language declaring the "exclusivity" of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) as a legal basis for surveillance for intelligence gathering purposes. The bipartisan legislation, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 Amendments Acts of 2008, includes language – first proposed by Schiff and Flake in 2006 -- to ensure that FISA and the federal criminal wiretap statutes are the sole means for conducting electronic surveillance on U.S. soil.“More than two years after we found out that the President was asserting the authority to eavesdrop on Americans without court approval, Congress is set to pass a measure that says otherwise,” said Schiff. “The exclusivity provision included in this bill will make it clear that FISA and federal criminal wiretap statutes are the only legal basis for the surveillance of Americans – without exception."“It’s imperative that FISA’s exclusivity in domestic intelligence gathering be codified in law, and that’s precisely what this bill does,” said Flake.Reps. Schiff and Flake have long worked together to modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to respond to changes in technology and new threats while at the same time protecting American civil liberties. In 2006, they were the first in Congress to author FISA exclusivity language, and in 2007 the House, for the first time, passed a FISA exclusivity amendment, authored by the two Congressmen. Lastly, Reps. Schiff and Flake also authored an amendment to the Defense Authorization Bill in 2006 that came within 7 votes of shutting down the President’s Terrorist Surveillance Program unless it was brought under court supervision.
06.18.08	06.18.08 House Approves Schiff's Legislation to "Fingerprint" Nuclear Material Wednesday, June 18, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Approves Schiff’s Legislation to “Fingerprint” Nuclear Material Legislation will improve technology to track down nuclear traffickers and identify sources of nuclear materialWashington, DC – On the same day Rep. Adam Schiff is to be recognized by the Center for National Policy at the their Annual Edmund S. Muskie Distinguished Public Service Awards Ceremony for his work on nuclear security issues, the House passed Rep. Schiff’s Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act (H.R. 2631). The legislation will strengthen efforts in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material, and will also encourage the President to negotiate international agreements to govern international nuclear forensics activities.“If we can determine the source of the nuclear material, we can better attack smuggling networks and plug the security holes that allow deadly material to be obtained in the first place,” said Schiff. “Nuclear states like North Korea may be deterred from transferring nuclear material if they know it can be traced back to them.”In the event of nuclear material being intercepted at a border crossing or in a sting operation, there may be few clues to assist investigators in determining where the bomb or material originated. The radioactive material itself may be the only lead. Each sample of nuclear material has an elemental fingerprint that can help determine its source. However, current efforts to trace materials are often incomplete because the technology is still in development and information on foreign reactors and stockpiles is not available. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act will authorize the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center at DHS to coordinate the government’s nuclear forensics efforts and encourage technicians and scientists to enter the field. It will also call upon the President to lead international efforts to share nuclear forensics data.Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on securing vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. Earlier this month, Rep. Schiff co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security, which seeks to identify the most urgent vulnerabilities and take immediate action to improve nuclear safeguards, secure fissile materials, and prevent the misuse of sensitive nuclear materials and technologies. In the past year, Congressman Schiff introduced several bipartisan bills which would reduce the threat of a nuclear disaster. In addition to the nuclear forensics bill, he introduced legislation that would prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. He also introduced a bill called the Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act, which seeks to bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists by making nuclear trafficking a crime against humanity. In the 109th Congress, he introduced legislation to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program and establish an Office of Nonproliferation Programs in the Executive Office of the President. In April 2004, Rep. Schiff introduced H.R. 4212 which would have created a Presidential Task Force within the Department of Energy to focus on an immediate strategy to secure nuclear material around the world. He also introduced legislation (H.R. 2063) to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program to include countries outside the former Soviet Union, such as Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq in May of 2003. That same month, he joined Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to strengthen the United States' efforts to safeguard or destroy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and related materials around the world.
06.18.08	06.18.08 Rep. Schiff Supporting the Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESWednesday, June 18, 2008I thank the chairman of the full committee for his leadership on this issue and for his indulgence of my perseverance. I'm very grateful that the bill moved so quickly and for his support of it. I also want to thank the chairman of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity, Science and Technology, Jim Langevin, for his leadership, and also thank the Ranking Member Mr. McCaul. I really appreciate all of your help. It's been a bipartisan effort from the very beginning, and that's the way it should be. Through this legislation, we're taking an important step to prevent nuclear terrorism, and I appreciate, again, all of the work of the committee and staff. Nuclear terrorism is the preeminent threat of our time. Many countries around the world now have access to technology that was once the realm of only a few. Just last week it was reported that an advanced nuclear weapon design was found on a computer connected to one nuclear smuggling ring, and that was the one mentioned by my colleague, Mr. Langevin. Illicit nuclear material has been intercepted in transit many times since the Cold War, and the material we catch is probably just a small fraction of the total amount trafficked. The President and Congress have recognized that a nuclear attack on the United States is the most important national security threat facing our country. In the ongoing effort to strengthen our border, this Congress has made it more difficult to smuggle a nuclear weapon into the United States. But with thousands of miles of borders to secure against weapons just a few feet in size, we cannot simply play defense at the border. We must also prevent the weapons and materials that lie in storage around the world from falling into the wrong hands. During the Cold War, we deterred the Soviet Union with the threat of nuclear retaliation. Unfortunately, the decentralized flexible terror networks that we face today are not as easily deterred. Osama bin Laden has termed the acquisition of mass destruction a religious duty. And there is no question that using such a weapon against America is consistent with the group's contempt for human life. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act is designed to help shut down trade in nuclear material by deterring those parts of the trafficking network susceptible to deterrence. If we identify the source of nuclear material, then when we intercept it in transit, we can hold responsible those who created it and shared it with terrorists or rogue nations. In the aftermath of an attack, God forbid, this capability would also help determine the identity of those responsible. Nations, companies, and individuals could be dissuaded from proliferating knowing that their malfeasance could be traced back to them. The first part of this bill expands our ability to determine the source of nuclear material by strengthening our nuclear forensics capability. Nuclear forensics is the study of the chemistry and physical properties of nuclear material that give it a particular signature. Scientists and engineers skilled in the field can also use information from the packaging and accompanying materials to pinpoint a source. But acquiring, analyzing, characterizing, and attributing samples is a complicated process. Though we have the capability to perform each step, our expertise is split between the Departments of Energy, Defense, Homeland Security, and State. This bill authorizes a national technical nuclear forensics center in the Department of Homeland Security. The center will coordinate the various agencies and ensure that a sufficient combined response is present whenever nuclear material is intercepted or used in a weapon. It will also advance the science of nuclear forensics bringing in new radiochemists and physicists into a rapidly aging workforce and funding research on new methods to identify materials from around the world. But this bill also has another purpose. As with fingerprints or DNA, the strength of nuclear forensics depends on the strength of our database. Nuclear material can come from many nations, some friendly and some unfriendly.
06.13.08	06.13.08 Representatives Schiff and Berman Urge FAA to Approve Mandatory Nighttime Curfew at Bob Hope Airport Friday, June 13, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Representatives Schiff and Berman Urge FAA to Approve Mandatory Nighttime Curfew at Bob Hope Airport Washington, DC – Recently, Reps. Adam Schiff and Howard Berman have written to Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena Airport Authority President Carl Povilaitis in support of the proposed mandatory nighttime curfew at the Bob Hope Airport. Schiff and Berman wrote in the letter that the curfew, “would provide meaningful nighttime noise relief to the communities surrounding the Bob Hope Airport in a cost-efficient manner while continuing to enable the Airport to serve the millions of annual passengers who use the facility each year.” They continued, “The Airport has demonstrated that the suggested curfew will ultimately cost less than increased acoustical treatment of homes that will be affected by airport noise in the future…”The full text of the letter is below.June 5, 2008Carl Povilaitis PresidentBurbank-Glendale-Pasadena Airport AuthorityBob Hope Airport, 2627 Hollywood Way, Burbank, CA 91505,Dear President Povilaitis:We are writing this letter to convey our support for the proposed mandatory nighttime curfew at the Bob Hope Airport located in Southern California. The proposed curfew, which will be the subject of FAA review under the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), as implemented by FAR Part 161, would provide meaningful nighttime noise relief to the communities surrounding the Bob Hope Airport in a cost-efficient manner while continuing to enable the Airport to serve the millions of annual passengers who use the facility each year. We believe that the proposed mandatory curfew meets the requirements set forth by the requirements of FAR Part 161. The Airport has demonstrated that the suggested curfew will ultimately cost less than increased acoustical treatment of homes that will be affected by airport noise in the future and it has also met the other five statutory tests. Congress intended for ANCA to permit airports, such as Bob Hope, to pursue and obtain FAA approval for access restrictions when the airport successfully demonstrates compliance with FAR Part 161. In particular, we note that the proposed curfew would impact a relatively small number of diverted flights (mostly cargo and general aviation) while delivering significant reductions in both the projected noise impact contour at the Airport and costs associated with sound mitigation. Similar, albeit not identical, nighttime restrictions already exist at a number of Southern California airports, including John Wayne, Long Beach, Santa Monica and Van Nuys and that the national aviation system can clearly handle the relatively small number of impacted operations of an additional nighttime restriction in Southern California. Furthermore, we believe that a vast majority of flights from Burbank could easily be diverted to Los Angeles International Airport and Ontario International Airport, which both have extensive nighttime operations. In closing, we commend the Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena Airport Authority for undertaking this Part 161 study and join the residents of these cities in urging the Federal Aviation Administration to fulfill its obligations under ANCA and seriously consider, pursuant to FAR Part 161, the full mandatory curfew proposed for the Bob Hope Airport.Sincerely,Hon. Adam Schiff29th Congressional District of CaliforniaHon. Howard Berman28th Congressional District of Californiacc: City Council, City of Burbank City Council, City of Glendale City Council, City of Pasadena
06.12.08	06.12.08 Schiff Helps Secure Funds for Important Jet Propulsion Laboratory Programs Thursday, June 12, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Helps Secure Funds for Important Jet Propulsion Laboratory ProgramsWashington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff announced that the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies passed a bill that included funding for three important programs managed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena. Rep. Schiff, a member of the subcommittee, helped secure funding for the Mars Exploration Program, exoplanet research, and the Outer Planets program. “The space program represents the best of our nation’s ingenuity, perseverance and intelligence,” Schiff said. “In addition to expanding our understanding of the cosmos, the space program is responsible for many of the technological advancements we benefit from every day. It is essential that America continue to lead the exploration of the Universe if we as a nation want to keep our competitive edge in the global economy.”Schiff worked hard to ensure robust funding of the Mars work at JPL. The bill included $463.17 million to continue the Mars Exploration Program, an increase of over $75 million above the President’s budget request, requested by Rep. Schiff. The Mars Program is the centerpiece of NASA’s exploration of our planetary neighbors. The funding included in this bill will help enable JPL to continue its program of launching a mission to the Red Planet every 26 months. The resources in this measure will also fund the Mars Science Laboratory that is due to launch in 2009, as well as future missions. Importantly, it will also continue to fund the probes already at work on or around the Red Planet, including the rovers “Spirit” and “Opportunity,” which are still exploring Mars more than four and a half years after landing there.The bill contains $78.1 million for exoplanet research to be used by JPL and NASA as they seek to reconfigure the SIM mission for a proposed 2010 start. This figure represents a $30 million increase over the President’s budget and this increase was also requested by Schiff. The new mission is expected to use many of the technologies currently being developed for SIM, but at a much lower cost. The objective of the mission is to determine more accurately the positions and distances of stars throughout the galaxy and probe nearby stars for Earth-sized planets. Lastly, Schiff successfully sought $101.1 million for NASA’s Outer Planets Program, an increase of over $90 million from last year’s funding. This money will be used to begin the initial concept development of a new mission to the outer planets.
06.11.08	06.11.08 House Judiciary Committee Adopts Schiff Amendments to Improve DNA Tools for Law Enforcement and Investigators and Eliminate DNA Backlogs Wednesday, June 11, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Judiciary Committee Adopts Schiff Amendments to Improve DNA Tools for Law Enforcement and Investigators and Eliminate DNA BacklogsWashington, DC – Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved four amendments authored by Rep. Schiff which would improve DNA tools to help catch rapists, murderers and other violent criminals and help reduce the backlog of DNA samples waiting to be screened by federal and state investigators. The amendments were added to the “Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2008” (H.R. 5057). Most significantly, the Committee approved an amendment authored by Rep. Schiff that would provide states an incentive to collect DNA profiles of everyone arrested for murder or sex crimes. “DNA matching technology is one on the greatest advancements in forensic science since the fingerprint,” said Schiff. “DNA matching technology has the potential to be one of the most effective tools in catching violent felons. We can use this technology far more successfully to track down murderers and rapists.”His first amendment would create an incentive program for states to collect DNA profiles of all people arrested for murder and sex crimes. Many studies have indicated that violent crimes could be significantly reduced if DNA profiles were collected from individuals arrested for felonies. A 2005 Chicago study examining the criminal activities of only 8 individuals found that 60 violent crimes could have been prevented, including 53 murders and rapes, if DNA was required for felony arrests.Currently twelve states collect such samples, such as California. These states are greatly increasing the power of the National DNA network, while states with far narrower collection regimes are making the federal database less efficient. Rep. Schiff’s amendment would reward those states that enact an enhanced collection process by making them eligible for an increase in federal law enforcement funds.The second amendment that passed would call for the issuance of new standards governing the use of the federal DNA index in order to provide for the expedited uploading of DNA profiles by State and local forensic laboratories. The amendment would also direct an examination of the feasibility of other measures that would greatly expedite analysis and uploading of DNA profiles, as well as backlog reduction.Rep. Schiff’s next amendment that was approved was is in response to a disturbing report that found that many DNA samples from crime scenes that matched convicted criminals were not being pursued by law enforcement and prosecutors in a timely fashion, leading to additional crimes before a criminal was apprehended. Rep. Schiff’s amendment would call for the Department of Justice’s Inspector General to investigate and report on how many DNA database matches are followed up on by law enforcement and how many are ultimately brought to the attention of prosecutors.This report will determine the reasons why matches were not pursued accordingly and determine the resulting impact on the criminal justice system – namely, whether other crimes were committed that could have been prevented if the matches were pursued accordingly.Rep. Schiff’s last amendment that passed will help states which develop permanent funding sources to eliminate DNA backlogs. It authorizes the Attorney General to provide federal matching funds to states that have implemented permanent funding mechanisms that generate funds dedicated to analyzing DNA samples for law enforcement purposes.
06.06.08	06.06.08 Bill Passes to Improve Transportation Throughout San Gabriel Valley Friday, June 06, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Bill Passes to Improve Transportation Throughout San Gabriel Valley President Signs Bill into Law Benefiting the Gold Line Foothill ExtensionWashington, DC – The President signed legislation into law today, SAFETEA-LU Technical Corrections Act of 2008 (H.R. 1195), that will help address Southern California’s continuing population growth and the resulting congestion on its roads and highways. The bill includes language that could enable the federal government to pay for up to 80 percent of the Gold Line Foothill Extension, possibly bringing $320 million in federal dollars if the MTA and cities can raise at least $80 million in matching local funds. There is no guarantee of an 80/20 match, but the language encourages the FTA to make the most favorable match possible, and to consider the heavy state and local investment already made in the line. “This is good news for the San Gabriel Valley and Inland Empire,” said Schiff. “The Gold Line Foothill Extension will help ease congestion on our roadways, provide a healthier environment for all to enjoy, and allow people to spend more time with their families and less time parked on the highway. This bill makes a smart investment in transit infrastructure and will help ease traffic, jumpstart our economy and create jobs.”The Gold Line Foothill Extension will extend the rail line from Pasadena to Montclair, and a final phase is under study to continue the line to Ontario Airport. The project has received the necessary approval to begin construction and is now eligible for federal funds. On June 26, 2008, MTA will hold its monthly board meeting, where it will decide whether to provide the necessary $80 million match to receive significant federal funding for the extension.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
06.03.08	06.03.08 House Approves Bill to Name San Gabriel Post Office for Chi Mui Tuesday, June 03, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 House Approves Bill to Name San Gabriel Post Office for Chi MuiWASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House passed legislation (H.R. 5477) sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff to pay tribute to former Mayor of the City of San Gabriel, Chi Mui, by naming the San Gabriel Post Office after him. Mayor Mui spent a lifetime bettering his community as a volunteer and public servant. Mayor Mui passed away on April 27, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. The bill is cosponsored by nearly every member of the California House Delegation, and the House passed the bill unanimously. It now awaits a vote in the Senate. “Chi Mui was a well-respected and dedicated leader in San Gabriel. He was a role model for all those interested in public service and was particularly influential in the Asian-American community,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “Naming the San Gabriel Post Office for Chi would be a fitting tribute to honor a great man.” Born in Toisan, China on Oct. 26, 1952, Chi Mui was a man of humble origins whose early experiences enabled him to connect to the Asian community in California. His parents, a seamstress and a cook, left for the United States in 1963 when Chi Mui was 10 and moved to New York City’s Chinatown. It was in New York City that Mui learned to speak English and graduated cum laude with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from Polytechnic University of New York in 1980. After moving to Southern California in 1980, Chi Mui began working to better the lives of immigrants in the region. Chi Mui’s immigrant roots allowed him to connect with the experiences of generations of people who have come to this country for a better life.Mui was a key player in the development of 600 units of affordable and senior housing for Chinatown and helped hundreds of legal residents become United States citizens by teaching citizenship classes. Through his work organizing the Chinatown Yard Alliance he led the effort to save the 50-acre “Cornfield” in downtown Los Angeles as open space, and helped obtain $35 million from the state government in 2001 to build the first urban state park and community facilities on the Cornfield. An avid runner and athlete, Chi Mui co-founded the Los Angeles Chinatown Athletic Association Volleyball Club where he taught young people teamwork and sportsmanship as a dedicated coach. He also worked to expand existing recreational facilities in the Chinatown community. In recognition of his hard work and leadership, he was twice elected president of the Los Angeles Chinese-American Citizens Alliance. The Alliance was founded in 1895 to advocate for equal political, economical and educational opportunities for Chinese-Americans. Active in local politics early on, he was a field representative for Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard when she was in the Assembly, and he worked for former Assemblyman Richard Polanco and state Sen. Gloria Romero . In a city where one in every two residents is Asian, Mayor Mui often played an important role as a liaison between the city government and the Asian community and he worked diligently to improve the lives of all residents. As a city councilmember, Chi Mui led the effort to maintain better hours at the county public library in San Gabriel to provide greater access to residents and students without increasing costs. He was a man with passion for open space and dedicated himself to improving open spaces in San Gabriel. He was instrumental in helping the City obtain an additional $50,000 for the master plan and redesign of Vincent Lugo Park. Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
06.03.08	06.03.08 House Passes Chi Mui Post Office Building CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESTuesday, June 03, 2008Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the gentleman from Illinois for yielding, and I want to thank him, Mr. Waxman and the staff on the committee for working with me on this legislation.I'm proud to stand here today to honor a well-respected and dedicated leader from the San Gabriel Valley. Mr. Chi Mui was a beloved member of the Asian American community in Southern California, and the mayor of the city of San Gabriel, where he dedicated himself to improving the quality of life for his neighbors, community and country. I can't think of a more fitting tribute to such an exceptional man than naming the post office in San Gabriel, the town where he touched so many lives, in his honor. Chi Mui's story epitomizes the American dream. Born in Toisan, China, Chi Mui was a man of humble origins whose early experiences enabled him to relate and connect to the Asian community in California. After spending many of his early years in Hong Kong, Chi moved with his parents to New York City's vibrant Chinatown in 1963, at the age of 10. Chi spoke Cantonese with his parents, who were a seamstress and a cook, but quickly immersed himself in the language of his new home. As a new immigrant, he remembered feeling like an outsider on the edge of society, and found refuge, his own oasis in the New York Public Library, where he broadened his mind and developed a lifelong commitment to supporting public libraries. His time reading and studying in the library served him well as he continued his schooling, graduating cum laude with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from Polytechnic University in New York in 1980. After attending New York University, he moved west and began his distinguished career in public service. In Los Angeles he served as deputy to one of our colleagues, LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD, and later to California State Senator, Richard Polanco. As their deputy, and in his own time, Chi began working to better the lives of immigrants in the region. Chi Mui's immigrant roots and experiences gave him a special insight and the wisdom and ability to connect with generations of people who came to this country for a better life. Chi was a key player in the development of 600 units of affordable and senior housing in Los Angeles' Chinatown, and taught citizenship classes to help hundreds of legal residents become U.S. citizens. In 1999 he led an alliance of community leaders, neighborhood groups and businesses to save 50 acres of open space known as the ``Cornfield'' in downtown Los Angeles. This land became California's first ever urban State park, and is now known as the Los Angeles State Historic Park. An avid runner and an athlete, he cared deeply about improving recreational facilities and opportunities for youth in the urban area of Los Angeles, and helped obtain $35 million in State funding in 2001 for recreational facilities and activities in the new Los Angeles State Historic Park. Chi also helped expand the capacity of the Alpine Recreation Center, which doubled in size due to his efforts. He volunteered his time to coach youth at the Alpine Center where he taught teamwork and sportsmanship. He also founded and co-founded the Los Angeles Chinatown Athletic Association Volleyball Club and created a night basketball program for at-risk youth. Youth are still benefiting from his legacies. Both programs are still going strong today. Chi Mui's experience as an immigrant and his close ties to his Chinese heritage led him to be active in the Chinese American community in the L.A. area. In recognition of his leadership, he was elected President of the Los Angeles Chinese American Citizens Alliance twice. The Alliance was founded in San Francisco in 1895, and advocates for equal political, economic and educational opportunities for Chinese Americans. Chi believed in working together with everyone, and often brought different cultures and races together to work on common problems. While he was close with the Chinese American community, he also worked hand in hand with the Indochinese and Chinese-Vietnamese communities, and he was an important link between the Asian American community in San Gabriel and all other residents where he served on the San Gabriel City Council. Chi Mui was one of only a handful of first-generation Chinese Americans to successfully run for office when he was elected to the San Gabriel City Council in March of 2003. He made history as the first Asian and Chinese American City Council member and mayor since the City of San Gabriel's incorporation in 1913. Remembering how important library access was to him, Chi was a devoted member of the Friends of San Gabriel Public Library, and led the effort to open the county public library in San Gabriel on Saturdays to provide more services to residents and students without increasing costs. However, his personal passion on the City Council was the ``greening'' of the community, and he worked tirelessly to preserve the quality of life that San Gabriel residents value. A long-time advocate of parks and open space, Chi Mui helped the city obtain funds for the master plan and redesign of Vincent Lugo Park, and successfully pushed for additional trees and greenery on neighborhood streets. For several years, Chi fought a courageous battle with cancer, during which he continued his work for the residents of San Gabriel. On April 27, 2006, at the age of 53, Chi passed away with his wife Betty and a few close friends at his side. He was greatly loved by the City of San Gabriel, and those who knew him saw his commitment to making the city a wonderful community for life-long residents and new commerce as well. I greatly enjoyed the chance to work with him during his tenure on the city council and know I speak for a great many when I say how much we all miss him. People around the country recently finished celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month which ended on Saturday, May 31. Asian Americans have touched many lives around the country, and Chi Mui is no exception. It is fitting that we pass this legislation, H.R. 5477, which will add yet another Asian American name to a very short list of post offices honoring this important community. Chi Mui will never be forgotten by those who knew him. He had a profound effect on the people of southern California and the City of San Gabriel. Future generations will recognize his good work in our community as we preserve his memory and rename the San Gabriel post office in his honor. I thank again the gentleman from Illinois.
05.29.08	05.29.08 Schiff Spends Memorial Day Recess Visiting Troops in Afghanistan Thursday, May 29, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Spends Memorial Day Recess Visiting Troops in AfghanistanCongressional Delegation led by Schiff meets with soldiers and high level officials to discuss the war in Afghanistan and Afghan parliamentary reformsWASHINGTON, DC – During the Congressional Memorial Day Recess, Representative Adam Schiff celebrated Memorial Day by visiting troops on his third trip to Afghanistan. Rep. Schiff enjoyed sharing breakfast with troops from throughout California where he heard about their experiences and concerns. He is encouraged by the progress being made, but recognizes the long road ahead to improve security and accelerate reconstruction. Reps. Schiff, Wayne Gilchrest (R-MD) and Allyson Schwartz (D-PA) traveled as part of the House Democracy Assistance Commission. In Afghanistan, they met with high level officials including President Hamid Karzai, the Speaker of the Assembly and Chairs of several Parliamentary committees. “Our troops and foreign service officers are doing incredible work under the most difficult circumstances. I am grateful to have had the opportunity to visit them during the Memorial Day Recess which is specifically set aside to honor our courageous and dedicated servicemen and women. I certainly benefited from their insights into the situation by hearing their experiences on the ground,” stated Schiff."It is clear from my visits here and in Pakistan that the safe haven which Al-Qaeda and the Taliban enjoy on the Pakistan side of the border is the most serious and enduring threat to progress in Afghanistan and to our security at home. Much more will have to be done to deal with this continuing danger." The delegation also visited Pakistan, Armenia and Azerbaijan. Congressman Schiff is a co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
05.22.08	05.22.08 Schiff Amendments to Increase Nuclear Security Pass House Thursday, May 22, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Amendments to Increase Nuclear Security Pass House Washington, D.C. – Continuing his effort to increase nuclear security around the world, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) offered two amendments to the Defense Authorization bill today, and were both passed by the House. The first amendment, authored by Rep. Schiff, would require the Secretary of Defense to study methods to reduce the likelihood of an accidental nuclear launch by nuclear nations around the world. The second amendment, authored by Rep. Bill Foster (D-IL) and Rep. Schiff, would help strengthen the Department of Energy’s nuclear forensics capabilities. “Nuclear terrorism is a threat so serious in its consequences that we often shrink from contemplating it,” Schiff said. “But ignoring the problem will not make it go away – in fact, ignoring the possibility of terrorists getting hold of nuclear material or a device makes that awful prospect more likely to happen. These amendments confront the problem head-on, by reducing the likelihood of an accidental launch and by improving our ability to identify the source of nuclear material that has been trafficked or used.”In the two decades since the end of the Cold War the physical procedures required to launch nuclear weapons have remained unchanged. Both the U.S. and Russia still maintain thousands of nuclear weapons that can be launched at a moment's notice. Though the risk of a deliberate nuclear war with Russia has been dramatically reduced, the danger of an accidental launch has only increased. Rep. Schiff’s first amendment would call for a study of the technical methods by which Russian, Chinese, and American weapons could be made safer in a multilaterally framework. This amendment does not support a unilateral change in our launch procedures, but calls for a study on whether the technology exists to verify and enforce a possible future multilateral agreement on removing nuclear weapons from high alert.The second amendment, cosponsored by Rep. Schiff, addresses the problem of nuclear trafficking. Illicit nuclear material has been intercepted in transit many times since the end of the Cold War, and the material caught is probably a small fraction of the total trafficked. The amendment passed today would help develop nuclear forensics technology, which involves studying the mix of isotopes and other features of nuclear material that gives it a particular "fingerprint." If nations around the world knew that they could be identified as the source of material being trafficked or used in a nuclear attack, even irresponsible nations would be disinclined to proliferate.On Tuesday, the House Homeland Security Committee passed a similar bill authored by Rep. Schiff which is aimed at strengthening efforts in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material.Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on securing vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. Earlier this month, Rep. Schiff co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security, which seeks to identify the most urgent vulnerabilities and take immediate action to improve nuclear safeguards, secure fissile materials, and prevent the misuse of sensitive nuclear materials and technologies. In the past year, Congressman Schiff introduced several bipartisan bills which would reduce the threat of a nuclear disaster. In addition to the nuclear forensics bill, he introduced legislation that would prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. He also introduced a bill called the Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act, which seeks to bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists by making nuclear trafficking a crime against humanity. In the 109th Congress, he introduced legislation to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program and establish an Office of Nonproliferation Programs in the Executive Office of the President. In April 2004, Rep. Schiff introduced H.R. 4212 which would have created a Presidential Task Force within the Department of Energy to focus on an immediate strategy to secure nuclear material around the world. He also introduced legislation (H.R. 2063) to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program to include countries outside the former Soviet Union, such as Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq in May of 2003. That same month, he joined Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to strengthen the United States' efforts to safeguard or destroy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and related materials around the world.
05.21.08	05.21.08 Schiff Announces Appointments to U.S. Service Academies Wednesday, May 21, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Announces Appointments to U.S. Service Academies WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff announced that four students from the 29th Congressional District have received appointments to U.S. service academies for the class of 2012. Four of the five United States service academies require a Congressional nomination in order to receive an appointment. Below is a list of the four students who Rep. Schiff nominated who received appointments. Christian Kooshian, Altadena resident, student at John Muir High School (Pasadena), was appointed to the Military Academy. Arthur Lin, Alhambra resident, student at Alhambra High School, was appointed to the Military Academy. Dennis Lowe, Pasadena resident, student at Flintridge Preparatory School, was appointed to the Military Academy. David Raba, Glendale resident, student at St. Francis High School (La Cañada Flintridge), was appointed to the Naval Academy. “The service academies provide a tremendous opportunity for young people to obtain a first-class education and serve our country,” said Schiff. “Each one of these students has compiled an outstanding resume of accomplishments and demonstrated excellence in academics, athletics and leadership skills. I am confident they will be among the future leaders of our country.” The four academies requiring a Congressional nomination are the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, does not require a Congressional nomination. All five academies offer young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked, nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing them for an officer's commission in the armed forces. Students interested in applying to a Service Academy in 2009, should call Congressman Schiff’s District Office at 626-304-2727 or visit www.house.gov/Schiff to obtain an application form. The application deadline is November 14, 2008. Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
05.20.08	05.20.08 Homeland Security Committee Approves Schiff's Legislation to "Fingerprint" Nuclear Material Tuesday, May 20, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Homeland Security Committee Approves Schiff’s Legislation to “Fingerprint” Nuclear Material Legislation will improve technology to track down nuclear traffickers and identify sources of nuclear materialWashington, DC – Recognizing that one of the greatest threats to our security today is the detonation of a nuclear weapon or the use of a radiological device, the House Homeland Security Committee today passed Rep. Adam Schiff’s legislation to strengthen efforts in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act (H.R. 2631) will also encourage the President to negotiate international agreements to govern international nuclear forensics activities.“If we can determine the source of the nuclear material, we can better attack smuggling networks and plug the security holes that allow deadly material to be obtained in the first place,” said Schiff. “Moreover, nuclear states like North Korea may be deterred from transferring nuclear material if they know it can be traced back to them. The asymmetrical threat to end all asymmetrical threats is terrorist use of a nuclear device. All our efforts must be directed to making sure this never happens. This bill gives us another important tool.”In the event of nuclear material being intercepted at a border crossing or in a sting operation, there may be few clues to assist investigators in determining where the bomb or material originated. The radioactive material itself may be the only lead. Each sample of nuclear material has an elemental fingerprint that can help determine its source. However, current efforts to trace materials are often incomplete because the technology is still in development and information on foreign reactors and stockpiles is not available. The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act will authorize the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center at DHS to coordinate the government’s nuclear forensics efforts and encourage technicians and scientists to enter the field. It will also call upon the President to lead international efforts to share nuclear forensics data.Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on securing vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. Earlier this month, Rep. Schiff co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security, which seeks to identify the most urgent vulnerabilities and take immediate action to improve nuclear safeguards, secure fissile materials, and prevent the misuse of sensitive nuclear materials and technologies. In the past year, Congressman Schiff introduced several bipartisan bills which would reduce the threat of a nuclear disaster. In addition to the nuclear forensics bill, he introduced legislation that would prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. He also introduced a bill called the Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act, which seeks to bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists by making nuclear trafficking a crime against humanity. In the 109th Congress, he introduced legislation to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program and establish an Office of Nonproliferation Programs in the Executive Office of the President. In April 2004, Rep. Schiff introduced H.R. 4212 which would have created a Presidential Task Force within the Department of Energy to focus on an immediate strategy to secure nuclear material around the world. He also introduced legislation (H.R. 2063) to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program to include countries outside the former Soviet Union, such as Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq in May of 2003. That same month, he joined Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to strengthen the United States' efforts to safeguard or destroy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and related materials around the world.
05.15.08	05.15.08 Schiff Introduces Bill Urging End to Turkish Blockade of Armenia Thursday, May 15, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Bill Urging End to Turkish Blockade of Armenia WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced a bill urging the President and Secretary of State to call upon Turkey to immediately lift its ongoing blockade of Armenia. The “End the Turkish Blockade of Armenia Act” requires a report from the Secretary of State within 30 days of final passage that will outline steps taken by the U.S. to end Turkey’s blockade of Armenia. “We need to step up pressure on Turkey to lift the draconian blockade of Armenia, permitting Armenian businesses to fully participate in the global economy and assisting Armenia’s integration into Europe,” said Schiff.The State Department has estimated that the blockade is inflating Armenia’s transportation costs by 30-35%, and the blockade prevents the U.S. and international humanitarian assistance from crossing its borders which is already a violation of U.S. law and international humanitarian standards. Rep. Schiff is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security He serves on the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee, and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
05.15.08	05.15.08 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils "2008 International Piracy Watch List" Thursday, May 15, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils “2008 International Piracy Watch List” Washington, D.C.: At a press conference today the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Gordon Smith (R-OR), and Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), unveiled the “2008 International Piracy Watch List.” In an effort to combat international copyright piracy by calling attention to countries where piracy has reached alarming levels, the Caucus announced that it will closely monitor the serious problems of copyright piracy in China, Russia and Canada, and to a lesser extent the piracy problems in Mexico, Greece and Spain.The advent of digital technology holds the promise of a golden age for movies, music, video games and other forms of entertainment. More new devices for watching, listening to, recording, sharing and saving music and movies have emerged in the last decade than in the previous 100 years. And these technologies are a key to American economic growth: indeed, the combined copyright industries – movies, home video and television programming, music, books, video games and software – generate more revenues than any other single manufacturing sector, including automobiles and auto parts, aircraft and agriculture. They are responsible for more than five percent of the nation’s GDP. The film industry alone has a surplus balance of trade with every country in the world. Unfortunately an explosion in piracy and a diminution in global copyright protection have accompanied these exciting new advances in entertainment technology. Organized crime has become heavily involved in foreign DVD and CD piracy. Criminals are using the same formidable distribution network and resources that were developed for drug trafficking and arms smuggling. The result, in these and other countries, is a substantial reduction of the legitimate market for American entertainment.“Piracy is just another word for stealing – it’s criminal and it’s wrong, plain and simple,” said Senator Joe Biden. “American ingenuity – the cornerstone of our history and culture – is being threatened. Our ideas, our music, our books, our movies, our innovations are just as precious as any tangible property. Unfortunately – not all countries see it that way, resulting in billions of dollars in lost revenue to the U.S. economy. With new technologies coming out at warp speed, this global problem will only get worse. We’ve got to update our own laws to remain a step ahead of the criminals and keep the pressure on our trading partners to take this problem for the serious crime that it is.” America is the largest creator, producer, and exporter of copyrighted material. Industry estimates that global piracy costs U.S. firms $17 billion in lost sales annually.“Our ingenuity and creativity are this nation's strongest assets,” Senator Smith said. “Theft of our innovation is indistinguishable from stealing our physical goods and products. The scale of copyright piracy among those who should be our strongest trading partners is unacceptable.”This year the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus will to focus on copyright piracy problems in China, Russia and Canada. These three countries continue to stand out because of the scope and depth of their piracy problems and because piracy in these countries is largely the result of a lack of political will to confront the problem. Violations in these countries contribute to costing the U.S. copyright industries and millions of American workers billions of dollars annually.In addition to these countries, the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus will also monitor the serious piracy problems in Spain, Greece and Mexico.“When one of our trading partners allows copyright infringement to occur with impunity, they are gaming the system and injuring our economy,” said Congressman Schiff. “When people buy DVDs on the street or download music on the Internet without paying for it, they aren’t just stealing products, they're stealing jobs from American workers. We must take much stronger action to ensure countries on the list are forced to take piracy seriously.”Congressman Goodlatte said, “The U.S. is far and away the world's largest producer and exporter of the creative works that entertain, inform and educate the world. In addition, the contribution of the American copyright industry to the strength of the overall American economy is significant. A vibrant sector of the U.S. economy is at tremendous risk due to widespread piracy of U.S.-made movies, music, software, videogames, books, and other creative works. We must work with our international trade partners to secure the enactment of strong copyright laws and the vigilant enforcement of those laws and we will especially be watching closely those countries that have been highlighted today. ”Finally, the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus is pleased to note that some positive steps have been taken by the governments of Lebanon, Malaysia, and Turkey in addressing their piracy problems. Local governments and law enforcement in these countries have begun working together to effectively fight piracy. The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which was formed in 2003 by Senators Biden and Smith and Representatives Schiff and Goodlatte, is made up of 70 members of Congress. The goals of the Caucus are to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
05.14.08	05.14.08 Schiff, Chabot, Emanuel, Murphy Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Fight Identity Theft and Cyber Crime Wednesday, May 14, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Chabot, Emanuel, Murphy Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Fight Identity Theft and Cyber CrimeWashington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Steve Chabot (R-OH) introduced the Identity Theft Enforcement and Restitution Act, which would take strong steps to combat cyber crime and protect data security. The measure would provide federal prosecutors with important new tools to help combat identity theft and cyber crime. Additionally, it would also give victims of identity theft the ability to seek restitution for the loss of time and money spent restoring credit and remedying the harms of stolen identity. Reps. Rahm Emanuel (D-IL) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) are original cosponsors. “Criminals are increasingly using new technologies to prey upon their victims,” Schiff said. “As they adapt to these new opportunities to defraud consumers, we must develop better ways to track down the perpetrators and put them away. This legislation will help protect American consumers and businesses from the costly effects of cyber crime and identity theft.”“Cyber-criminals are becoming increasingly more tech-savy and aggressive, which raises the stakes for consumers and businesses,” said Congressman Steve Chabot. “Statistics released by the FBI and industry experts reveal that as many as 10 million computers are under the control of someone other than the owner. This is a serious problem and current law must be updated so we can deal with the sophistication of these crimes.”This measure introduced today in the House is the companion measure to Senator Patrick Leahy’s (D-VT) and Arlen Specter’s (R-PA) Identity Theft Enforcement and Restitution Act, which passed the Senate unanimously late last year. The measure also has the support of the Department of Justice, the Secret Service, and has broad support from industry and consumer groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Cyber Security Industry Alliance, the Business Software Alliance, the Consumers Union, the Consumer Federation of American, and the AARP. “We need to protect Americans at work, at home, and online,” said Emanuel. “Cyber criminals and identity thieves are using new online tools to prey on unsuspecting Americans so we need to provide law enforcement with additional tools to fight back and protect our identities and data.”“As more and more Americans find convenience in doing their banking, shopping, and every day tasks online, identity theft is becoming a more common crime. This legislation will give our law enforcement officials the tools they need to combat criminals who see an opportunity to prey on individuals and businesses in our increasingly wired existence.”The Identity Theft Enforcement and Restitution Act would: Give victims of identity theft the ability to seek restitution for the loss of time and money spent restoring credit and remedying the harms of identity theft; Ensure that identity thieves who impersonate businesses in order to steal sensitive personal data can be prosecuted under federal identity theft laws. Current law only provides for prosecution of impersonating an individual for the purposes of committing identity theft. Enable prosecution of those who steal personal information from a computer even when the victim’s computer is located in the same state as the thief’s computer. Under current law, federal courts only have jurisdiction if the thief uses interstate communication to access the victim’s computer; Eliminate the requirement that damage to a victim’s computer exceed $5,000 before charges can be brought for unauthorized access to a computer. This provision protects innocent actors while categorizing violations resulting in less than $5,000 in damage as misdemeanors; Make it a felony to employ spyware or keyloggers to damage ten or more computers regardless of the aggregate amount of damage caused, ensuring that the most egregious identity thieves will not escape with a minimal, or no, sentence; Make it a crime to threaten to steal or release information from a computer. Current law only permits the prosecution of those who seek to extort companies or government agencies by explicitly threatening to shut down or damage a computer. Violators of this provision will be subject to a criminal fine and up to five years in prison; and Add the remedies of civil and criminal forfeiture to the arsenal of tools available to federal prosecutors to combat cyber crime, and mandate that the U.S. Sentencing Commission review and update its guidelines for identity theft and other cyber crime offenses. Reps. Schiff and Chabot have long fought to improve cyber security. This is the second straight Congress they have teamed-up to introduce comprehensive data privacy legislation. In 2006 they introduced the Cyber-Security Enhancement Act in 2006.
05.08.08	05.08.08 President Signs Schiff's Rim of the Valley Measure into Law Thursday, May 08, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 President Signs Schiff's Rim of the Valley Measure into LawBill directs Interior Department to study expansion of Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation AreaWashington, D.C. – Today, President George W. Bush signed Rep. Adam Schiff's (D-CA) Rim of the Valley Corridor Study legislation into law, culminating a seven year long effort. The measure directs the Secretary of the Interior to study the feasibility of expanding the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include the mountains and canyons in Southern California that are part of the Rim of the Valley Corridor, as designated by the state of California. Rep. Schiff's measure was included in the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 (S. 2739) which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to conduct special resources studies of the Rim of the Valley and other lands and structures to determine the appropriate means for preservation and use.On Friday, May 16, 2008, Rep. Schiff will hold a press conference with local public officials, environmentalists, and other Rim of the Valley advocates where they will discuss the possible implications of the study. The press conference will be held at the Stough Canyon Nature Center in Burbank at 12:30 pm. Additional details will follow."This is great news for Southern California. Open space in our region is precious, and we owe it to future generations to study the best means of preserving this key component of our quality of life," said Schiff. "It is my hope that the Rim of the Valley measure will help develop a long-range plan that will balance preservation, recreation and the needs and rights of those living in and around the area."The bill authorizes the Interior Department to examine the suitability of increasing the size of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area by encompassing part or all of this corridor, which is an ecologically significant contiguous region that consists of parts of the Santa Monica Mountains, Santa Susanna Mountains, San Gabriel Mountains, Verdugo Mountains, San Rafael Hills, and adjacent connector areas to the Los Padres and San Bernadino National Forests.Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) sponsored the companion legislation in the Senate this year. In the past, a similar version of this bill was approved by the House Resources Committee and passed by the full Senate. This is the first time the bill has passed both chambers of Congress and was sent to the President to be signed into law.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
05.06.08	05.06.08 Schiff Introduces Bill to Ensure our National Security Strategy Can Meet the Challenges of the 21st Century Tuesday, May 06, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Bill to Ensure our National Security Strategy Can Meet the Challenges of the 21st CenturyMeasure would establish a bipartisan commission to assess and develop a new national security strategyWASHINGTON, DC – As the catastrophic events of 9/11 showed us more than six years ago, the threats facing the United States have changed from those we faced during the four decades of the Cold War. To ensure that we have adapted to these new challenges, Rep. Schiff has introduced legislation to establish a bipartisan commission to study the global security environment and develop a new national security strategy for the 21st century. “The Commission on Securing the United States in the 21st Century Act,” will build on the work of previous reviews, like the Hart-Rudman Commission, the 9/11 Commission and others, and recommend structural, budgetary and policy oriented reforms. “We need to ensure that we are ready to face the security challenges of tomorrow and not just the challenges of yesterday,” said Schiff. “The Hart-Rudman Commission correctly identified many of the features that have dominated the global security environment of the last decade, but unfortunately their recommendations were not enacted in time. We need to ensure we don’t make the same mistake twice, and it’s time to take a fresh look at the challenges ahead.” The bill calls on Congressional leaders, the Secretaries of State and Defense, and the Director of National Intelligence to appoint the commission’s members. The commission will be tasked with developing a national security strategy for the next quarter century.Specifically the commission will work to: Conduct a comprehensive review of the global security environment; Perform a detailed overview of American strategic interests and objectives for the security environment we will likely encounter in the next two decades and beyond; Define a national security strategy appropriate to that environment; Identify a range of alternatives to implement the national security strategy; Develop a detailed plan to implement the range of alternatives; and Report to Congress and the President on its findings, conclusions, and recommendations to enhance American national security.Rep. Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
05.01.08	05.01.08 Transportation Bill Passes With Language Helpful to Gold Line Extension Thursday, May 01, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Transportation Bill Passes With Language Helpful to Gold Line ExtensionGold Line Provision Requested by Rep. Schiff and Dreier Urges Strong Federal Matching FundsWashington D.C. – Today the House passed important legislation, H.R. 1195, that included language requested by Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and David Dreier (R-CA) that urges strong federal funding of phase two of the Gold Line. Since the first phase of the Gold Line relied on state and local funding alone, Schiff and Dreier urged the transportation committee to support a strong federal investment in the next phase. The bill was approved in the Senate last week and today’s passage in the House clears the way for the President to sign it into law. “The expansion of the Gold Line will help improve the quality of life for all Southern Californians by reducing congestion, lowering emissions, and fostering economic development,” said Schiff. “The inclusion of this language is welcome news for our region and I thank Chairman Oberstar for his commitment to helping us move the project forward.”“Meeting our region's transportation needs is a top, bipartisan priority,” Dreier said. “The local match language in this legislation is critical to the long term success of the Gold Line and provides an important boost in the Federal Transportation Administration's contribution to the federal, state, and local partnership of the project.”The first phase of the Gold Line, from Union Station in Los Angeles to Pasadena, was constructed entirely with state and local funds. H.R. 1195 will help ensure that the second phase of the project, the expansion from Pasadena to Montclair, receives significant federal funding. Last year, Congressmen Schiff and Dreier received a commitment from James Oberstar, Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, that he would work closely with Reps. Schiff and Dreier to ensure the Gold Line receives the most favorable federal-local division possible.Receipt of federal funding -- no matter how favorable the match -- is dependent on inclusion of the Gold Line extension in the MTA's long range plan and the commitment of state and local funds for the effort. These matters will soon be decided by the MTA and Reps. Schiff and Dreier have advised the agency that it must take action or risk losing hundreds of millions of transit dollars to other areas of the state and country.
05.01.08	05.01.08 Schiff, Fortenberry Launch Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus Thursday, May 01, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Fortenberry Launch Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus Former Rep. Tim Roemer and Graham Allison featured at inaugural eventWASHINGTON, DC – Recognizing that a potential nuclear event is one of the greatest threats to our national security, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) established the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security today. Drawing from leading congressional, executive, and private sector initiatives on nuclear proliferation, terrorism, and homeland security, the caucus will seek to identify the most urgent vulnerabilities and take immediate action to improve nuclear safeguards, secure fissile materials, and prevent the misuse of sensitive nuclear materials and technologies. “Nuclear terrorism is a threat so serious in its consequences that we often shrink from contemplating it,” Schiff said. “But ignoring the problem will not make it go away – in fact, ignoring the possibility of terrorists getting hold of nuclear material or a device makes that awful prospect more likely to happen. This caucus is going to confront the problem head-on. We will work to raise awareness and work to implement changes in our national security policy so we never have to deal with the terrifying consequences of a nuclear event.”“The horrific consequences of a nuclear weapon explosion in America are unfathomable,” Fortenberry said. “Yet, it is becoming easier to access the technical information and materials necessary to do devastating harm. It is my hope that this new working group will add momentum to nuclear threat reduction.”At today’s kickoff event, Reps. Schiff and Fortenberry were joined by former Rep. Tim Roemer and Graham Allison. Mr. Roemer, who served on the 9/11 commission, is currently president of the Center for National Policy (CNP) which seeks to promote innovation and bipartisan dialogue on the strategic and operational challenges facing America – including the nuclear threat. Mr. Roemer briefed the caucus on the CNP’s “Nuclear Security Study Group” which is an effort to bring together members of Congress, experts, and the public on the issues of nuclear non-proliferation and securing loose fissile nuclear material.“I really commend Rep. Schiff and Rep. Fortenberry for taking the lead in creating the Congressional Caucus on Nuclear Security,” said former Rep. Tim Roemer, president of the Center for National Policy. “Not only have they identified a major threat to our country that must be a high priority at the moment, as noted recently by several high-ranking government officials, but they are seeking to address this challenge in a bipartisan way. We learned on the 9/11 Commission that this is the only way to succeed in an undertaking of such a serious national security magnitude. I look forward working with the members of the Caucus in order to make it effective and proactive in protecting America from nuclear terrorism.” Mr. Allison is the founding dean of Harvard’s Modern John F. Kennedy School of Government, a former top Pentagon official, and one of America’s leading scholars of nuclear strategy and national security. At the caucus launch he spoke about some of the finding in his book Nuclear Terrorism: The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe. Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on efforts to secure vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. In the last year, Congressman Schiff introduced several bipartisan bills which would reduce the threat of a nuclear disaster. The first, the Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act, would strengthen efforts in the Department of Homeland Security to develop techniques for “fingerprinting” nuclear material. The second aims to prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. The third bill Rep. Schiff introduced in this Congress, the Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act, seeks to bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists by making nuclear trafficking a crime against humanity. In the 109th Congress, he introduced legislation to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program and establish an Office of Nonproliferation Programs in the Executive Office of the President. In April 2004, Rep. Schiff introduced H.R. 4212 which would have created a Presidential Task Force within the Department of Energy to focus on an immediate strategy to secure nuclear material around the world. He also introduced legislation (H.R. 2063) to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program to include countries outside the former Soviet Union, such as Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq in May of 2003. That same month, he joined Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to strengthen the United States' efforts to safeguard or destroy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and related materials around the world.
04.29.08	04.29.08 Schiff's Rim of the Valley Measure Headed to President's Desk Tuesday, April 29, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff’s Rim of the Valley Measure Headed to President’s Desk Washington, D.C. – Today, the House sent Rep. Adam Schiff’s (D-CA) Rim of the Valley Corridor Study legislation to the President to be signed into law, culminating a seven year long effort. The measure directs the Secretary of the Interior to study the feasibility of expanding the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include the mountains and canyons in Southern California that are part of the Rim of the Valley Corridor, as designated by the State of California. Rep. Schiff’s measure was included in the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 (S. 2739) which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to conduct special resources studies of the Rim of the Valley and other lands and structures to determine the appropriate means for preservation and use. “This important measure will enable a study of alternatives for protecting some of the most beautiful land in southern California for future generations of Americans to enjoy,” said Schiff. “The Rim of the Valley is a special place and we owe it to our children to develop a long-range plan that will balance preservation, recreation and the needs and rights of those living in and around the area.”The bill will authorize the Interior Department to examine the suitability of increasing the size of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area by encompassing part or all of this corridor, which is an ecologically significant contiguous region that consists of parts of the Santa Monica Mountains, Santa Susanna Mountains, San Gabriel Mountains, Verdugo Mountains, San Rafael Hills, and adjacent connector areas to the Los Padres and San Bernadino National Forests.Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) sponsored the companion legislation in the Senate this year. In the past, a similar version of this bill was approved by the House Resources Committee and passed by the full Senate. This is the first time the bill has passed both Chambers of Congress and will be sent to the President to be signed into law. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
04.28.08	04.28.08 Crescenta Valley High School Student Wins Congressional Arts Competition Monday, April 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Crescenta Valley High School Student Wins Congressional Arts CompetitionWASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that Joanna Lee, a student at Crescenta Valley High School and a resident of La Crescenta, has won the 2008 29th Congressional District Arts Competition. Ms. Lee’s piece titled "Whole Milk,” will be included in the nationwide Congressional Arts Competition: An Artistic Discovery in Washington, D.C. Her artwork will hang in the United States Capitol for one year, along with that of other winners from around the nation. Jee-Shaun Wang a student at Mark Keppel High School and HeeSoo Chang a student at Burbank High School were named the second and third place winners, respectively.“I am always extremely impressed with the quality of artwork submitted in the arts competition each year,” Schiff said. “All the students deserve recognition for their hard work and exceptional talent. I congratulate Joanna, Jee-Shaun, and HeeSoo on being named the winners and look forward to enjoying their artwork in the Capitol and in my offices throughout the coming year.” Ms. Lee’s artwork was awarded first prize by a panel of local artists at the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens last night. Ms. Lee, one family member and her art teacher will be given airline tickets to Washington, D.C. courtesy of Southwest Airlines to attend a reception June 25, 2008 and Time Warner Cable will provide $1500 for travel expenses. Second place was awarded to Jee-Shaun Wang, a Monterey Park resident, for his work titled, “Restaurant America: The Industrial Sandwich.” Mr. Wang’s artwork will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Washington, D.C. office for one year.Third place was awarded to HeeSoo Chang, a Burbank resident, for her chalk pastel drawing “Beauty of Grandma” Ms. Chang’s piece will hang in Congressman Schiff’s Pasadena office for one year.This year, there were 64 entries representing 26 high schools in the 29th Congressional District, and over 300 people attended the award ceremony. Each student participant received a Certificate of Special Recognition from Congressman Schiff. The event also featured music by the award-winning South Pasadena Strings Program. Fay Kim and Dominica Park played the violin, Ariana Solotoff played the Viola, and Oliver Walton played the cello. All fours students in the string quartet attend the L.A. County High School for the Arts.
04.24.08	04.24.08 Rep. Schiff's Daughter Gets Down to Work on Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day Thursday, April 24, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Rep. Schiff’s Daughter Gets Down to Work on Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Alexa Schiff, daughter of Congressman Adam Schiff, accompanied her father to work on Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day. Alexa pitched in a helping hand around the office answering the phones and sorting mail. Alexa is nine years old and is in the fourth grade. “It was great getting to spend the day with my dad at work today,” said Alexa Schiff. “It was fun getting to talk to people on the phone, but the best part of the day was finding my dad’s secret stash of chocolates in his desk.” “It was great having Alexa here with me today. She was a big help around the office and I enjoyed having her get a better sense of what I do,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day is a terrific way to give children insights into the working world and a better perspective of what their parents do when they are not home.”Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day was started 15 years ago to help give children an educational experience outside the classroom. It provides parents and mentors an opportunity to help children see the importance and benefits of a good education and helps them set future goals – all in a hands-on and interactive environment.Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. Chief of Staff, Tim Bergreen, also brought two of his children to the Capitol this afternoon. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
04.24.08	04.24.08 In Honor of Remembrance Day, Rep. Schiff Vows to Continue the Fight to Recognize the Armenian Genocide Thursday, April 24, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 In Honor of Remembrance Day, Rep. Schiff Vows to Continue the Fight to Recognize the Armenian Genocide WASHINGTON, DC – At an event on Capitol Hill last night in honor of the 93rd Anniversary of the Armenia Genocide, Rep. Adam Schiff vowed to continue to lead efforts in Congress to recognize the Armenian Genocide. Rep. Schiff is the sponsor of “The Affirmation of the U.S. Record on the Armenian Genocide” resolution (H. Res. 106) which calls on the President to “ensure that the foreign policy of the United States reflects appropriate understanding” of the “Armenian Genocide” and to “accurately characterize the systematic and deliberate annihilation of 1,500,000 Armenians as genocide.” His remarks from last night’s event are below: “I’m Congressman Adam Schiff and I’m very proud to represent one of the largest Armenian communities in the country. Ninety-three years ago, a million and a half people lost their lives for the simple reason that they were Armenian. It began with a round-up of intellectuals. It continued with forced marches in the desert; women and children, parents and grandparents, aunts and uncles perished. Whole families were lost. Almost an entire people were lost. “Ninety-three years later we still fight in the greatest democracy on earth to recognize the plain facts of what took place. We have witnesses; some of them are here today. There are fewer and fewer witnesses left, though, and while there are witnesses among us we have the strongest moral imperative to recognize what they went through and what their families went through. “We have the strongest moral imperative to call that loss exactly what it was - without equivocation, without mitigation – a genocide. And we will fight until we succeed. We have a moral imperative and we have a very practical imperative as well. And the practical imperative is this, although this genocide took place ninety-three years ago, there is also a genocide taking place today half-way around the world. And we cannot have the moral authority we need to stand up and ask the world to take action against that genocide if we don’t have the courage and the moral rectitude to recognize this genocide and indeed every genocide. “So this must change, this will change, the fight will go on, we will prevail. I ask your help and God’s help that we prevail in time for the survivors to see justice done in their name.”
04.24.08	04.24.08 Celebrating Earth Day Through Action CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESThursday, April 24, 2008 Mr. Speaker, 2 days ago we celebrated Earth Day, a holiday that began in 1970, when Senator Gaylord Nelson recognized the growing public movement that we now know as environmentalism, and called on environmentally concerned citizens to join him in cities around the world to demonstrate, teach, and learn about preserving the world's natural wonders. Speaking on that occasion, Senator Nelson said of the first Earth Day, "It may be the birth date of a new American ethic that rejects the frontier philosophy that the continent was put here for our plunder and accepts the idea that even urbanized, affluent, mobile societies are interdependent with the fragile life-sustaining systems of the air, the water, and the land.'" Today, we have accomplished many of the goals of the first environmentalists: Cleaning up rivers so polluted by industrial waste that they burned, and air polluted with lead, mercury, and sulfur. But there are still many pollutants that we have not eliminated, and we have come to realize that pollution is not a local problem, but a global one as well. We alter the environment with factories and refineries, but also through agriculture, fishing and mining. In many ways we are lucky. Drawing on our long experience of environmental remediation and policy-making, we know some of the solutions to the endemic, international problem of climate change. This is a problem of such scope and depth that it can seem daunting at times. But if I were ever tempted to retreat from confronting this problem because of its size, I need only look at my daughter Alexa, who is here with me today, and my son Eli and realize that this is not a problem I am willing to leave to them. But Earth Day was first a day for awareness, and I would like to continue that tradition today by taking a short break from the important debates we had earlier today, and celebrate some of the small steps people around the country are taking to reduce their impact on the world we all share. Some Americans have found that the wind passing over their farms and ranches is as valuable a resource as the oil beneath the farm or ranch once was, and have replaced their oil wells with windmills. Some have jumped on board in the most American of ways--by starting a business. The green-tech sector is growing by leaps and bounds with companies developing technologies for solar, wind and geothermal energy, biofuels, carbon capture and storage, energy efficiency, smart electric grids, and low-carbon agriculture, to name a few. Some have replaced their windows and washing machines with more energy-efficient ones, and installed extra insulation to reduce their heating bills. They have discovered that just changing the light bulbs to an energy-efficient model will reduce their electric bill dramatically and save energy. Some companies now offer transit passes and bike racks to encourage their employees to commute efficiently, and many employees are taking up that challenge. But Earth Day is also a day to look forward to see what we can do next. Many Americans will install solar panels, solar water heaters, attic fans and geothermal heat pumps in our homes to reduce our dependence on the power company. Many Americans will buy houses made of renewable materials and cars that run on biofuels. Those same cars will plug into a grid during the day, providing a buffer against blackouts and brownouts. Other Americans will enjoy public transportation that reaches further out into our suburbs and links our communities more tightly together. And still other Americans will work for companies that build green technologies and sell them all over the world to countries desperate for an answer to their polluted water and air, and mounting energy needs. These are the efforts that we must begin today so we can see the fruits of our labor tomorrow. But today, we must all remember that Earth Day is an opportunity to teach our children to respect the planet we live on. By taking them hiking or fishing or camping or bicycling, we introduce them to a world of mountains and forests and beaches that they will continue to enjoy and appreciate for the rest of their lives. We protect the environment so our children will have a healthy planet to live on, and we teach our children to be environmentalists so that their children will have the same healthy home.
04.16.08	04.16.08 Schiff Receives Perfect Score on Voting Record for Legislation Affecting Global Issues Wednesday, April 16, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Receives Perfect Score on Voting Record for Legislation Affecting Global IssuesWashington, D.C. – Citizens for Global Solutions, a nationwide organization that seeks to educate Americans about global interdependence, communicate global concerns to public officials, and develop proposals to create, reform, and strengthen international institutions such as the United Nations, issued Rep. Adam Schiff a 100% on its 2008 Congressional Score Card. The 2008 Congressional Report Card is a comprehensive tool for evaluating which legislators are true advocates of cooperative solutions to global problems. “I stand with the members of Citizens for Global Solutions in their quest to highlight and affect change in the way the international community works together to solve global challenges,” said Rep. Schiff. “Diplomacy is essential in dealing with the challenges of this new century. If we are going to make the world a safer and healthier place we need to work with our international partners to find and build solutions together.” “Representative Schiff has consistently voted to support effective global partnerships through which we can meet the challenges of the twenty-first century,” said Don Kraus, Executive Vice President, Director of Government Relations at the organization. “More than ever, Americans want to know that their Members of Congress favor a more cooperative and pragmatic U.S. foreign policy. Mr. Schiff’s constituents should be proud to know that he is doing just that.”The report card scored all Members of Congress on ten key votes over the last two years regarding: Climate Change Energy Genocide in Darfur Global Health and Development International Criminal Court Nuclear proliferation Torture/Habeas Corpus U.N./Peacekeeping FundingCitizens for Global Solutions encourages Americans to recognize how they are connected to the rest of the world, communicate their concerns to public officials and promote solutions to a range of global problems. It supports closer U.S. cooperation with, and support for, international institutions capable of responding to the threats and challenges of a new century. With those goals in mind, it builds support within in the United States to ensure that public officials work with our allies to make the world a safer and better place. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
04.16.08	04.16.08 Bill to Name San Gabriel Post Office for Chi Mui Clears First Hurdle in House Wednesday, April 16, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Bill to Name San Gabriel Post Office for Chi Mui Clears First Hurdle in House WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed legislation sponsored by Rep. Adam Schiff to pay tribute to former Mayor of the City of San Gabriel, Chi Mui, by naming the San Gabriel Post Office after him. Mayor Mui spent a lifetime bettering his community as a volunteer and public servant. Mayor Mui passed away on April 27, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. The bill is cosponsored by nearly every member of the California House Delegation, and the committee passed the bill unanimously. It will now be sent to the House floor to be voted on by the full House. “Chi Mui was a well-respected and dedicated leader in San Gabriel. He was a role model for all those interested in public service and was particularly influential in the Asian-American community,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “Naming the San Gabriel Post Office for Chi would be a fitting tribute to honor a great man. I will continue to work to move this bill forward expeditiously.” Born in Toisan, China on Oct. 26, 1952, Chi Mui was a man of humble origins whose early experiences enabled him to connect to the Asian community in California. His parents, a seamstress and a cook, left for the United States in 1963 when Chi Mui was 10 and moved to New York City’s Chinatown. It was in New York City that Mui learned to speak English and graduated cum laude with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from Polytechnic University of New York in 1980. After moving to Southern California in 1980, Chi Mui began working to better the lives of immigrants in the region. Chi Mui’s immigrant roots allowed him to connect with the experiences of generations of people who have come to this country for a better life.Mui was a key player in the development of 600 units of affordable and senior housing for Chinatown and helped hundreds of legal residents become United States citizens by teaching citizenship classes. Through his work organizing the Chinatown Yard Alliance he led the effort to save the 50-acre “Cornfield” in downtown Los Angeles as open space, and helped obtain $35 million from the state government in 2001 to build the first urban state park and community facilities on the Cornfield. An avid runner and athlete, Chi Mui co-founded the Los Angeles Chinatown Athletic Association Volleyball Club where he taught young people teamwork and sportsmanship as a dedicated coach. He also worked to expand existing recreational facilities in the Chinatown community. In recognition of his hard work and leadership, he was twice elected president of the Los Angeles Chinese-American Citizens Alliance. The Alliance was founded in 1895 to advocate for equal political, economical and educational opportunities for Chinese-Americans. Active in local politics early on, he was a field representative for Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-Los Angeles) when she was in the Assembly, and he worked for former Assemblyman Richard Polanco (D-Los Angeles) and state Sen. Gloria Romero (D-Los Angeles). In a city where one in every two residents is Asian, Mayor Mui often played an important role as a liaison between the city government and the Asian community and he worked diligently to improve the lives of all residents. As a city councilmember, Chi Mui led the effort to maintain better hours at the county public library in San Gabriel to provide greater access to residents and students without increasing costs. He was a man with passion for open space and dedicated himself to improving open spaces in San Gabriel. He was instrumental in helping the City obtain an additional $50,000 for the master plan and redesign of Vincent Lugo Park. Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
04.11.08	04.11.08 Schiff Brings Astronaut to Students in the South Pasadena Unified School District Friday, April 11, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Brings Astronaut to Students in the South Pasadena Unified School District Washington, D.C. – This morning, Congressman Schiff visited three South Pasadena elementary schools with NASA astronaut Joseph Tanner. Every year, Congressman Schiff invites astronauts to speak at area schools to encourage students to pursue interests in math and science. Mr. Tanner and Congressman Schiff met with third-grade, forth-grade and fifth-grade students at Arroyo Vista Elementary School and Monterey Hills Elementary School and forth-grade and fifth-grade students at Marengo Elementary School. “As Members of Congress, we must do our part to advance scientific knowledge and exploration as core values of our society. One important way we engender a sense of excitement about math and science is by bringing real life heroes into the classroom,” said Schiff. These astronaut visits are part of Congressman Schiff’s "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. Mr. Tanner has worked for NASA since 1984. He was selected as an astronaut candidate in 1992 and is a veteran of four space flights working as a mission specialist. He has logged over 44 days in space and participated in 7 space walks. On his four shuttle flights, Mr. Tanner has helped launch a satellite, helped repair and upgrade the Hubble Space Telescope, and helped assemble the International Space Station. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Valarie Gomez Named a "Woman of the Year" In the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Valarie Gomez Named a “Woman of the Year” In the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Valarie Gomez for her commitment and service to San Gabriel by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Valarie’s generosity, approachability, and efficiency are the reasons she is so highly respected in the San Gabriel community,” said Schiff. “Valarie has been an exceptional mentor helping neighborhood children learn the value of hard work. Her dedication to empowering others to succeed and her selfless service to the San Gabriel community make her well deserving of being named a Woman of the Year.”Ms. Gomez was born and raised in the San Gabriel Valley and attended both Marymount College in Rancho Palos Verdes and Loyola Marymount University. There she tackled the formidable combination of double majors in English and Business Administration, as well as double minors in Philosophy and Religious Studies. She and her husband Carlos have three children, including two daughters and one son. Ms. Gomez and her husband first immersed themselves in the local community by opening Bob’s Old Fashioned Freeze in 1983. Children and adults alike would flock to the establishment for the ice cream, sandwiches, and friendliness of the owners. It was at that time that Ms. Gomez learned the importance of showing youth their true potential. Her sweet-toothed patrons have since become responsible community leaders and still keep in touch.After owning and operating the family business for several years, Ms. Gomez turned her attention to community outreach. She rose to Executive Director of Children’s Ministries at San Gabriel Union Church and Christian School, founded its After-School Day Care program, served as the Executive Director of the San Gabriel Chamber of Commerce, and led the Gabrielino High School Career Partners program. Ms. Gomez is also the two-time past President and current member of the San Gabriel Rotary, is a volunteer for various Kiwanis and Asian Youth Center events, and is a member of the San Gabriel Coordinating Council and the Parks & Recreation Commission.The 25-year San Gabriel resident recently became the CEO of the West San Gabriel Valley YMCA after only 17 months with the organization. She showed an enterprising attitude from the start and approached challenges with optimism and energy, leading to a doubling in profit compared to the previous year, newly rebuilt community relations, and the largest Service Club department in the nation. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Lissa Layng Reynolds Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Lissa Layng Reynolds Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Lissa Layng Reynolds for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Lissa’s stage is her community. Rather than focus on herself, she works to make South Pasadena the star,” said Schiff. “Her devotion to our serving our community is truly admirable.” Mrs. Reynolds is a professional theater, film, and television actress whose interaction with her community goes far beyond the stage and screen. As the President of the California Performing Arts Centre and co-Artistic Director of the award-winning Fremont Centre Theatre in South Pasadena, Mrs. Reynolds will celebrate the theatre’s tenth anniversary this year. She shares the milestone with her husband, James, who also serves as the theatre’s co-Artistic Director and can be seen on NBC’s “Days of Our Lives” as Commissioner Abe Carver. Together they have produced and co-produced over 30 plays during the Fremont Centre Theatre’s decade of existence. Mrs. Reynolds and her family have lived in South Pasadena for over 20 years. In addition to the Fremont Centre Theatre, Mrs. Reynolds and James own and operate Classes Unlimited, an adult learning center, and Big Men Stuff, a clothing company that uses slogans to combat domestic abuse. The Reynolds’ were selected as two of the most influential people in Pasadena by Pasadena Weekly and they received the Gold Crown Award from the Pasadena Arts Council for supporting local arts education and development. Giving back to the community is a priority for Mrs. Reynolds. Her busy schedule is packed equally with volunteering, fundraising, and professional efforts. Examples include the Haven House Women's Shelter in Pasadena, the Pasadena Humane Society, the Foothill YMCA, and the South Pasadena Police Department. For many years Mrs. Reynolds has joined her husband on USO handshake and educational tours for the troops and for their families. To encourage students to become active in the arts, the pair frequently directs local elementary school productions of Shakespeare and hosts an annual charity celebrity basketball tournament to benefit South Pasadena schools. For her continued philanthropic efforts Mrs. Reynolds has been honored by numerous organizations, including Women at Work, the South Pasadena Chamber of Commerce, and the Tournament of Roses Association. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Jaylene L. Moseley Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Jaylene L. Moseley Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Jaylene L. Moseley of Pasadena for her commitment and service to our community by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Without a doubt, Jaylene lives up to her personal creed that in all one’s endeavors, you should be committed to economic and social justice,’” said Schiff. “She sets a tremendous example of what it means to give back to the community.”Ms. Moseley has focused her professional and philanthropic energies in Northwest Pasadena and Altadena for over 30 years. She founded and leads the J. L. Moseley Company, a firm that develops and manages sustainable commercial real estate projects in Northwest Pasadena and Altadena. She also serves as President of Flintridge Operating Foundation, a nonprofit organization that provides direct services to build the strength, effectiveness and long-term viability of community-based organizations in Northwest Pasadena and Altadena. Her company’s commitment is to develop community while developing real estate. This is accomplished by developing sustainable commercial projects that are sensitive to the neighborhoods in which they are situated; involving neighbors – including youth – in every phase of development; leasing commercial space to tenants who agree to participate in community revitalization by hiring or by providing services to local residents; meticulously maintaining the properties; ensuring that each of the 14 buildings the company manages contributes to neighborhood efforts annually; and participating in community dialogue and actions to strengthen neighborhoods. Reflecting the company’s commitment to sustainability, J. L. Moseley Company developed the first Gold LEED-Certified building in Pasadena in 2006, and Ms. Moseley donated her services and managed the development of Mothers’ Club’s Gold LEED-Certified building in 2007.Ms. Moseley is deeply committed to the education of the community’s youth. She worked with community leaders to launch “Mustangs on the Move,” an after-school program which tutors high school students, works with youth on special projects, and hires students to work for her company. With the goal of inspiring students to expand their future horizons, she contributed $250,000 in profit from one of the company’s developments to “Mustangs on the Move” to provide opportunities for Pasadena Unified School District students to participate in summer programs on college campuses. In addition, Ms. Moseley personally contributes hundreds of hours each year to local nonprofit organizations, neighborhood groups, and community-based businesses. J. L. Moseley Company has received 14 awards for its real estate developments, and Ms. Moseley has received 23 awards from community groups for her professional and personal contributions to the community. She lives every day by her personal mantra, that “in all [her] endeavors, [she] is committed to economic and social justice.”Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Frances A. Moore Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Frances A. Moore Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Frances A. Moore for her commitment and service to Alhambra by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Ms. Moore’s personal and professional activities reveal a life-long commitment to community involvement,” said Schiff. “We not only benefit from her tireless efforts as a public servant in the City Clerk’s office, but we also profit from her dedication to volunteerism and giving back to the community.”Raised in Monterey Park, Ms. Moore is a native of the San Gabriel Valley. She is a product of local public schools and colleges, earning degrees from East Los Angeles College, California State University at Los Angeles, and the University of Redlands. Ms. Moore has devoted her forty-five year professional career to the City Clerk’s Office of the great City of Alhambra and has served as its beloved City Clerk since 1986.As Alhambra’s City Clerk, Ms. Moore is well-respected among her peers for her remarkable efficiency, her unparalleled depth of knowledge, and her professional dedication. By streamlining the city’s legislative and record management procedures, she saved valuable time and public funding. Ms. Moore is also a member of several professional organizations such as the International Institute of Municipal Clerks, the City Clerks’ Association of California, the City Clerks’ Association of Southern California, and the Los Angeles Paralegal Federation.In addition to her responsibilities as the City Clerk, Ms. Moore established the self-sustaining Public Arts Gallery in the lobby of Alhambra City Hall. The gallery promotes local artists’ work by providing a forum for creative recognition, distribution, and sales. A commission on each artwork sold helps cover the gallery’s operating expenses without reliance on public funds. For her efforts, Ms. Moore earned the Helen Putnam Award for Excellence from the League of California Cities.Ms. Moore’s star shines brightly among local, regional, and national philanthropic realms as well. A member of Rotary International since 1992, she has served as its Assistant Governor and as the President of the Alhambra Rotary Club. She is also a former member and past President of Soroptimist International of Alhambra, San Marino, and San Gabriel. Ms. Moore is a dedicated supporter of the West San Gabriel Valley YMCA and chaired the YMCA Capital Fund Campaign. She is a lifetime member of both the Alhambra Historical Society and the Alhambra Day Nursery Auxiliary.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Elaine Paonessa Named a "Woman of the Year" In the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Elaine Paonessa Named a “Woman of the Year” In the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Elaine Paonessa for her commitment and service to Burbank by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “With no charitable stone left unturned, Elaine has set a new standard for what it means to be a truly devoted citizen,” said Schiff. “As a resident of Burbank, I can attest to how lucky we are to have Elaine as a member of our community.”Born in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and raised in San Diego, Ms. Paonessa briefly attended San Diego State College before leaving to tour nationally with an all-girl orchestra as a trumpet player and a professional singer. Her musical background would return one day in her outreach efforts.Ms. Paonessa relocated to Burbank with her husband, Bill, in 1952 where she would eventually emerge as one of the Burbank community’s brightest stars. There they raised their daughter, Gay, and their son, Guy, and were together until Bill’s passing in 2006. It was during her fifteen years as a homemaker that Ms. Paonessa first amassed an impressive roster of volunteer commitments. Ms. Paonessa has worked with the Boy Scouts, led the Emblem Club of Burbank as President, chaired the city’s Women’s Council, founded the local Performing Arts Federation, and supported St. Joseph’s Medical Center. When she returned to work in 1967, Ms. Paonessa blazed professional trails as the first female sales representative for the Automobile Club of Southern California. Never one to shy from community involvement, she served on the Burbank Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors and the Salvation Army Advisory Board.Ms. Paonessa has not slowed a bit. She continues to lead and volunteer with several community organizations, including the Burbank Farmer’s Market and the Burbank Civitan Club, to name just a few. Ms. Paonessa revisits her roots as a traveling performer as the Musical Director of the Van Bloem Singers, a group that visits and performs at senior residences and healthcare facilities. For her incredible breadth of service, Ms. Paonessa has been recognized by Los Angeles County Commission on Aging and has been honored with the President’s Volunteer Service Award. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Doris Lau Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Doris Lau Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Doris Lau for her commitment and service to Monterey Park by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Doris devotes her time and energy well beyond her own needs and our community is a better place as a result of her efforts,” said Schiff. “In addition to her hard work and dedication to our community, her life story provides inspiration to us all.” Ms. Lau’s remarkable journey began when her parents left China and settled in Chile. Born in Iquique, the capitol of the country’s northernmost region, Ms. Lau worked in the fields alongside her family as a small child. Through hard work, dedication, and sacrifice the family built a neighborhood bakery and grocery store business; however, they eventually fled to the United States due to political unrest. In Los Angeles they began once again to rebuild their lives. Ms. Lau’s supplemental income from working in garment district factories helped to purchase their first home in Monterey Park.Ms. Lau progressed from sewing four buttons per penny to attending Los Angeles City College. She then went on to major in Business Administration and Law at Cal State Los Angeles and advanced from clerical to paralegal positions at various law firms.Inspired by her personal history, Ms. Lau has become an integral member of the Monterey Park volunteer community since moving there in 1985. She supports inter-cultural exchange in her role as a Trustee of the city’s Bruggemeyer Library, the Secretary for the city’s Commission for Art & Culture, and as the chair of the local Artisan Fairs. Her other leadership positions include serving as a Board Member, Southern Regional Representative, and Membership Chair of the California Association of Library Trustees & Commissioners (CALTAC) and as the VP, Legislative Coordinator, and Membership Chair of the National Treasury Employee Union (NTEU) for her local, Chapter 103.Ms. Lau’s fluency in both Chinese and Spanish embodies the cultural diversity of Southern California and of our nation’s proud history. Her outreach is similarly inclusive: she is a Board Member of the Committee for Special Emphasis Programs, which includes national heritage awareness months, and she volunteers for the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO).In the past Ms. Lau has led several organizations in which she remains an active member, including serving as President and Lieutenant Governor of Los Angeles Monterey Park Optimist, President of the Monterey Park Homeowners and Renters Association, Treasurer and Secretary of the Eastside Democratic Club, and President and Treasurer of Santa in York Hill, an annual community holiday event for low-income families.Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who – through their work or volunteerism – have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Catherine M. Pelley Named a "Woman of the Year" In the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Catherine M. Pelley Named a “Woman of the Year” In the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Catherine M. Pelley for her commitment and service to Glendale by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “Catherine is proof that one person’s optimistic vision can infuse a diverse community with the hope and the means to achieve excellence as one,” said Schiff. “The Glendale community is fortunate to benefit from her steadfast dedication and selfless service.” As a past nurse and Captain in the U.S. Army, Mrs. Pelley is a veteran who served her country during the Vietnam War as a psychiatric nurse working with the brave men and women returning home from combat. She is currently the President and CEO of Glendale Memorial Hospital and the Chair of the Glendale Chamber of Commerce Board. Cathy also serves on the Board of Directors for Glendale’s Armenian Bone Marrow Bank, Salvation Army, and regional Brothers of Saint John of God Healthcare and Retirement Centers. Under her leadership, Glendale Memorial Hospital’s infrastructure has expanded to include additional imaging equipment, several new community clinics, and modern communications systems. These easily-accessible, digital patient records will prevent medication errors and reduce transcription times, as well as maintain up-to-date information for future reference. With vision that reaches beyond hospital walls, Mrs. Pelley believes wholeheartedly in the future of the Glendale community. Her efforts to overcome South Glendale’s economic challenges were partnered with remarkable honesty, dignity, understanding, and determination. By highlighting common ground between conflicting groups, she gave victims a more effective voice in their healthcare and rallied community support behind the revitalization of a blighted area. Ever since, business has returned with new retail, dining, theatre, and housing options. Mrs. Pelley has also improved the area by expanding the “Brand Boulevard of Cars” and by implementing solutions to severe traffic congestion.Though she faced an aging medical facility, dwindling local business, and a community in conflict, Mrs. Pelley never backed down from the obstacles before her. She chose instead to provide leadership where it was needed, to invest in the health – both corporeal and economic – of the City of Glendale. In return, the area has transformed itself over four short years to become a beacon of civic progress. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Beverly White Named a "Woman of the Year" in the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Beverly White Named a “Woman of the Year” in the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Beverly White for her commitment and service to Altadena by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “As an icon of local journalism and a selfless volunteer, Beverly’s dedication and hard work on behalf of our community is invaluable,” said Schiff. “Beverly is a true role model for women and men everywhere.” Ms. White is well-known in Southern California for her current role as the co-anchor of the “Today in L.A.” weekend edition and as a long-time reporter on the popular 11pm Channel 4 News. She focuses in particular on the live coverage necessitated by local natural disasters such as regional wildfires and the Northridge earthquake.With a degree in broadcast journalism from the University of Texas at Austin, Ms. White first set out on her multi-state career at KCEN-TV (NBC) in Temple/Waco and KENS-TV (CBS) in San Antonio. In the late 80’s, she moved to Cincinnati and became the anchor of the top-rated morning newscast. There Ms. White reported on the tumultuous saga of Pete Rose, as well as on the 1988 Democratic and Republican presidential conventions.As a reporter for WTVJ in Miami, Ms. White covered several stories on international affairs concerning Haiti and Cuba, the rape trial of William Kennedy Smith, and the rap group 2 Live Crew’s struggle with First Amendment rights. Exemplifying her specialty in live coverage, she was on the team that won a 1992 Peabody Award for their outstanding coverage of Hurricane Andrew.Southern Californians encounter Ms. White in the field in other ways as well. She is a past president of the Black Journalists Association of Southern California and is a member of the national affiliate, the National Association of Black Journalists. In addition to her professional leadership roles, Ms. White supports community causes by hosting myriad annual awards functions, from YWCA’s “Women of Excellence” event to Los Angeles Neighborhood Housing Service’s luncheon. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.28.08	03.28.08 Angelina Levy Named a "Woman of the Year" In the 29th Congressional District Friday, March 28, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Angelina Levy Named a “Woman of the Year” In the 29th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Today at a reception in Pasadena, Representative Adam Schiff honored Angelina Levy for her commitment and service to Temple City by naming her a “Woman of the Year.” “It is little wonder that Angelina’s peers are proud to call her a ‘marvel,’” said Schiff. “Her work with the developmentally disabled is a true inspiration to us all. Temple City and our entire region are lucky to have her in the community and I thank her for all she does.” Born in Brooklyn, New York, Ms. Levy began her career in fashion when she graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology in 1954. After 20 years of experience in the New York fashion industry, she moved her family to California but was unable to find programs that catered to her son’s special developmental needs. In response to the void, Ms. Levy established the School of Fashion and Design for the Developmentally Disabled in 1984 and embarked on a remarkable legacy of community service and leadership.Ms. Levy’s School of Fashion and Design for the Developmentally Disabled works to provide students with tools to become self-sufficient and to boost self-esteem. It proves that the skills necessary for sewing and crafts can also be used to improve the learning and the concentration skills of those who are developmentally disabled. In addition to sewing, dressmaking, and tailoring, the groundbreaking facility provides daily instruction via their “Healthy Living Skills” program, where students learn about food shopping, cooking, and computing using the resources of the local community. At any given time there are over 40 students who range from young adults to seniors, and each emerges with enhanced social skills needed to integrate in today’s complicated world. In addition to her work with the School of Fashion and Design for the Developmentally Disabled, Ms. Levy is a past President of the United Commercial Travelers of America, the East Los Angeles Regional Center, and Civitan International. She has volunteered with the Special Olympics and the San Gabriel Civic Theater Group, as well as served on the Presidential Task Force on the Employment of Adults with Disabilities (PTFEAD) and its related U.S. Congressional Advisory Board. Ms. Levy is the recipient of numerous awards, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars Distinguished Service Award and the 2004 Soroptimist International Woman of the Year. Every March, during Women’s History Month, Rep. Schiff honors one outstanding woman from each of the communities in the 29th Congressional District. These women come from all walks of life and represent the thousands of women who make a positive impact in our region. While there are no specific criteria for nomination, Rep. Schiff looks for women who — through their work or volunteerism — have improved the quality of life for our community. Rep. Schiff represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.13.08	03.13.08 Schiff, Rogers Introduce Legislation to Make Background Checks for Volunteers Working with Children Reliable and Accessible Thursday, March 13, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Rogers Introduce Legislation to Make Background Checks for Volunteers Working with Children Reliable and AccessibleWASHINGTON, DC – In an effort to respond to safety concerns, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Rogers (R-MI) introduced legislation to establish a permanent, nationally-accessible background check system for youth-serving organizations. The bill, the Child Protection Improvements Act (H.R. 5606), would make background checks for volunteers working with children reliable, affordable, and comprehensive.“We are fortunate to live in a country where millions of volunteers generously make time to participate in community service,” said Schiff a former national Board Member of Big Brothers and Big Sisters of America. “But with so many volunteers working with children we need to ensure that child predators are not preying on innocent children through the guise of volunteerism. Children’s safety is paramount, and we need to make certain that those working with our youth have been thoroughly and properly screened.”“As a father, and like other parents, I want my children to always be safe and protected from predators and criminals,” said Rogers, a former FBI agent. “Every child in every community should have the benefit of playing and learning in an atmosphere in which they are not at risk of physical or emotional harm. Affordable, comprehensive background checks of volunteers are essential for the safety of our children and the peace of mind of parents, families, educators, and local law enforcement.” The pre-existing Child Safety Pilot program performed over 37,000 fingerprint-based Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) background checks since 2003. In 6.1 percent of cases, over 2000 individuals, potential volunteers were found to have a criminal record of concern, including very serious crimes like sexual abuse of minors, assault, murder, and major drug offenses. In many cases, only a fingerprint-based national background check could reveal these criminal histories.But the pilot was limited in its scope and duration revealing some serious vulnerabilities: only one-third of states allow mentoring organizations to access FBI searches and some of the states which do allow access charge fees that are too high for small non-profits. For a majority of youth-serving organizations there is no way to perform reliable, timely, and affordable national background checks on volunteers, outside of the pilot program that the Child Protection Improvements Act expands and improves.More specifically H.R. 5606 will: Ensure that youth-serving organizations of all kinds, all across the country, have access to FBI fingerprint searches; Streamline the process of obtaining nationwide background checks through the creation of a new national Applicant Processing Center; and Engage the expertise of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in reviewing the criminal records and making determinations as to whether the individuals should be allowed to work with children. Senators Joseph Biden (D-DE), Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Orin Hatch (R-UT) introduced the companion bill in the Senate today. The measure has been endorsed by American Camp Association, Afterschool Alliance, America’s Promise Alliance, Big Brothers Big Sisters of America, Boys and Girls Clubs of America, Communities In Schools, Inc., First Focus, MENTOR/National Mentoring Partnership, National Collaboration for Youth, YMCA of the USA.
03.06.08	03.06.08 Schiff, Boustany, Baird, Fortenberry Launch Congressional Friends of Jordan Caucus Thursday, March 06, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Boustany, Baird, Fortenberry Launch Congressional Friends of Jordan Caucus New bipartisan effort to strengthen America’s close relationship with a key ally in the Middle EastWASHINGTON, DC – At a lunch today with Their Majesties King Abdullah II and Queen Rania Al-Abdullah and His Highness Prince Zeid Raad, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA), Charles Boustany (R-LA), Brian Baird (D-WA) and Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) announced the formation of the Congressional Friends of Jordan Caucus. For decades, the United States and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan have been allies and friends, and Jordan is one of America’s closest partners in the Middle East. This new bipartisan caucus seeks to strengthen bilateral relations between Jordan and the U.S. The caucus will be co-chaired by Congressmen Schiff and Boustany, and Congressmen Baird and Fortenberry (R-NE) will serve as vice-chairs. “We have great appreciation for the friendship and solidarity that our good friends in the U.S. have shown us,” said His Majesty King Abdullah II. “The strength of our partnership is nowhere better reflected than during my meetings in the chambers of the U.S. Congress.”“It was an honor and pleasure to meet with Their Majesties King Abdullah II and Queen Rania Al-Abdullah today, and I appreciate their commitment to the close friendship between our nations,” Schiff said. “I also want to thank them for their support of this new caucus, and I look forward to finding ways to work together with Jordan to advance our shared interests and build on our relationship.”“Jordan remains a key ally of the U.S., and we hope the caucus will help to further strengthen this relationship,” Boustany said. “We have a common vision – peace and stability in the Middle East. I look forward to working together towards this noble goal.”“The Congressional Friends of Jordan Caucus provides a great opportunity for members of Congress to build ties with Jordan, a country that for decades has been a positive visionary on the fronts of democratic reform, women’s rights, and economic development in the Middle East,” said Congressman Baird. “I have great admiration for the King and Queen of Jordan and their entire nation, and will continue to develop one-on-one relationships with business and community leaders in Jordan to help strengthen the friendship between our two great nations.”“Jordan is an invaluable friend to the United States,” Fortenberry said. “It was a distinct honor to host King Abdullah II today at the formal introduction of the Congressional Friends of Jordan Caucus, which I believe will provide an excellent opportunity to strengthen our nations’ efforts to foster peace, stability, and opportunity throughout the Middle East.”The Congressional Friends of Jordan Caucus will work to educate and to inform Members on issues related to our bilateral relationship with Jordan. The mission of the Caucus is to support a strong relationship between Jordan and the United States and to facilitate the exchange of ideas between Members of the House of Representatives and Jordanian officials. Among other matters, Jordan has played an important role in advancing peace between Israel and the Palestinians and helping more than half a million Iraqi refugees who have fled to Jordan.
03.05.08	03.05.08 Schiff, Bono Mack, Boyd, and Mack Launch New America Supports You Caucus Wednesday, March 05, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff, Bono Mack, Boyd, and Mack Launch New America Supports You Caucus Caucus will emphasize individuals, organizations and companies that support our troops and their familiesWASHINGTON – Co-chairs Reps. Mary Bono Mack (R-CA), Allen Boyd (D-FL), Adam Schiff (D-CA), and Connie Mack (R-FL) announced the launch of a new bipartisan Congressional caucus to support members of the U.S. Armed Forces and their families at a press conference on Capitol Hill today. The America Supports You Caucus will support the good work already being done by organizations across the country to support our men and women in uniform and their families. Over 27 Members of Congress have joined the Caucus, which will also highlight the America Supports You program, a Department of Defense program that provides opportunities for citizens to show their support for the U.S. Armed Forces by connecting individuals, organizations, and companies to hundreds of homefront groups that offer a variety of support to the military community. “American military members and their families, such as those from 29 Palms or March Air Reserve Base, are most-deserving of our strongest support and gratitude,” said Bono Mack. “As these brave men and women deployed throughout the world protect our freedom, it is critical that we let them know that back home we appreciate their sacrifices and will support their families. This Caucus will be a tool for us in Congress to commend and expand efforts already underway to support our dedicated men and women in uniform and their families.”“As a veteran of Vietnam, I know how much it means to our troops and their families to be reminded of the support and goodwill of the American people back home,” said Congressman Allen Boyd (D-FL). “America Supports You’s partnership with the U.S. Postal Service to provide the first-ever military discount is just one example of how the America Supports You program is assisting our military community. I am eager and excited to highlight and encourage the good work being done by the America Supports You program through this Caucus.”“I am delighted to be a part of this new effort in Congress to show our appreciation for the bravery, commitment and sacrifice of our troops and their families, and do so in ways that really matter,” said Schiff. “Our caucus will work with the great organizations in the America Supports You network to connect service members and their families with the support they need and deserve -- everything from letters of encouragement to clean socks, from homes for disabled veterans to new job opportunities.”Congressman Connie Mack (R-FL) said, “There are hundreds of organizations in Southwest Florida and across the country that are working hard every day on behalf of our troops and their families. I’m pleased that our Caucus will be able to highlight these outstanding efforts and help to connect individuals who want to help our troops with organizations that can assist in those efforts.”As an example of the positive partnerships resulting from the America Supports You program, the Caucus Co-Chairs were joined by Postmaster General John Potter, who announced the U.S. Postal Service’s new, larger flat-rate box at a reduced price for packages sent to military members and families stationed overseas. The new Priority Mail Large Flat-Rate box is 50 percent larger than current flat-rate boxes, and for the first time in history, the Postal Service is offering a $2 discount when sending the larger box to an APO/FPO address, enabling customers to send more with one flat price. Also joining the Caucus co-chairs for the launch of the new Caucus were Army General Gary Patton, the America Supports You Joint Chiefs spokesperson; Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Allison Barber; and representatives from three homefront groups, including Our Military Kids, Landstuhl Hospital Care Project, and Angels of Mercy.-30-
02.21.08	02.21.08 Schiff Introduces Bill to Name San Gabriel Post Office for Chi Mui Thursday, February 21, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Introduces Bill to Name San Gabriel Post Office for Chi Mui WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to pay tribute to former Mayor of the City of San Gabriel, Chi Mui, by naming the San Gabriel Post Office after him. Mayor Mui spent a lifetime bettering his community as a volunteer and public servant. Mayor Mui passed away on April 27, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. “Chi Mui was a well-respected and dedicated leader in San Gabriel. He was a role model for all those interested in public service and was particularly influential in the Asian-American community,” said Rep. Adam Schiff. “His work through both public service and volunteering improved the lives of countless people in the Los Angeles area. Naming the San Gabriel Post Office for Chi would be a fitting tribute to honor a great man.” “I was elated when Rep. Schiff called to tell me he was working on naming the San Gabriel Post Office for my husband,” said Betty Mui, the widow of Mayor Mui. “I was always so proud of the work my husband did to improve our community and this is a great way to honor his memory.” “I am thrilled to hear that Congressman Schiff is introducing a bill to rename our Post Office after our beloved Mayor Chi Mui,” said San Gabriel Mayor Kevin B. Sawkins. “Mayor Mui is absolutely deserving of such an honor. This is a wonderful way for the community to remember and pay tribute to his legacy. I will smile and think of Chi every time I visit the Post Office.”Born in Toisan, China on Oct. 26, 1952, Chi Mui was a man of humble origins whose early experiences enabled him to connect to the Asian community in California. His parents, a seamstress and a cook, left for the United States in 1963 when Chi Mui was 10 and moved to New York City’s Chinatown. It was in New York City that Mui learned to speak English and graduated cum laude with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from Polytechnic University of New York in 1980. After moving to Southern California in 1980, Chi Mui began working to better the lives of immigrants in the region. Chi Mui’s immigrant roots allowed him to connect with the experiences of generations of people who have come to this country for a better life.Mui was a key player in the development of 600 units of affordable and senior housing for Chinatown and helped hundreds of legal residents become United States citizens by teaching citizenship classes. Through his work organizing the Chinatown Yard Alliance he led the effort to save the 50-acre “Cornfield” in downtown Los Angeles as open space, and helped obtain $35 million from the state government in 2001 to build the first urban state park and community facilities on the Cornfield. An avid runner and athlete, Chi Mui co-founded the Los Angeles Chinatown Athletic Association Volleyball Club where he taught young people teamwork and sportsmanship as a dedicated coach. He also worked to expand existing recreational facilities in the Chinatown community. In recognition of his hard work and leadership, he was twice president of the Los Angeles Chinese-American Citizens Alliance. The Alliance was founded in 1895 to advocate for equal economical and educational opportunities for Chinese-Americans. Active in local public service early on, he was a field representative for Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard when she was in the Assembly, and he worked for former Assemblyman Richard Polanco and state Sen. Gloria Romero. In a city where one in every two residents is Asian, Mayor Mui often played an important role as a liaison between the city government and the Asian community and he worked diligently to improve the lives of all residents. As a city councilmember, Chi Mui led the effort to maintain better hours at the county public library in San Gabriel to provide greater access to residents and students without increasing costs. He was a man with passion for open space and dedicated himself to improving open spaces in San Gabriel. He was instrumental in helping the City obtain an additional $50,000 for the master plan and redesign of Vincent Lugo Park. Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
02.08.08	02.08.08 Schiff Questions Attorney General about Torture Friday, February 08, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Questions Attorney General about TortureWASHINGTON, DC – At a hearing late yesterday afternoon, Rep. Adam Schiff questioned United States Attorney General Michael Mukasey regarding the Justice Department’s refusal to investigate whether or not laws prohibiting torture were violated when the CIA used the technique of waterboarding in interrogations of suspected terrorists. The pointed exchange between Rep. Schiff and Attorney General Mukasey is below, and a video can be view by clicking here. SCHIFF: Mr. Attorney General, I appreciate your being here. As a former member of the department, I am delighted that there's new leadership at the department. I am gravely concerned, though, about your testimony on the torture issue, which I find murky, ambiguous, and which establishes no bright line. I'm concerned about it for what it says to our own personnel and I'm concerned about it for what it says to the rest of the world. And I think it will be very hard for you to make the argument with other nations, when our troops are captured on the battlefield, that they cannot torture because we don't torture. I think our argument will be undermined by any ambiguity on that subject here at home. And I believe that the buck really stops with you, Mr. Attorney General. I don't think that it can be delegated to a relatively anonymous attorney at the Office of Legal Counsel to decide what is lawful and what isn't lawful. What I would like to ask you is the following: Shouldn't it be the job of the attorney general to investigate whether the law has been violated, notwithstanding whether there is an opinion by a lawyer at the DOJ that believes otherwise? Shouldn't it be the responsibility of the attorney general to investigate whether the law has been broken? And, if the law has been broken, then come before the American people and say: The law was broken; people were tortured in violation of the law; we have curtailed that practice; and I am recommending either, A, that those responsible be prosecuted or, B, that those responsible not be prosecuted because they acted in good-faith reliance on an opinion; or that they be prosecuted and the president consider the power of the pardon. But to abdicate, in my view, to say that, because of an opinion of legal counsel, we don't need to investigate whether the law was broken, seems to me a belittling of your responsibility as attorney general. And I wish you would comment on that. MUKASEY: Generally, I've resisted requests to comment on vast, unfocused questions. SCHIFF: Well, let me focus the question. Why don't you investigate whether the law was broken, and then make a determination about whether prosecution is warranted, instead of taking a position you're not even going to investigate whether the law was broken? MUKASEY: The only signal for the conduct of such an investigation is the disclosure that activity that some people claim is illegal but is in fact the subject of an opinion, namely that it was legal for inclusion in the CIA interrogation program -- that's the only signal for the opening of an investigation. That cannot signal the opening of an investigation without telling people that they cannot rely on Justice Department opinions. SCHIFF: Mr. Mukasey, are you saying... MUKASEY: Also... SCHIFF: Mr. Mukasey -- because I have a limited amount of time and I want to be very specific in my questions -- are you saying that, even if you believe that the law was violated, you lack the power to open an investigation into that? MUKASEY: If I believe that a particular practice is unlawful, then, if it's presented to me in concrete terms, I can steps to say that it's unlawful, going forward. SCHIFF: But we're presenting... MUKASEY: But I... SCHIFF: Mr. Attorney General... MUKASEY: One comment that you made that is very portentous, and needs to be corrected, and that is the suggestion that so much as a line of what I said endangers American troops. American troops fight in uniform... SCHIFF: I understand that. I am not... (CROSSTALK) SCHIFF: Mr. Attorney General, I am not trying to... MUKASEY: The Geneva Conventions... SCHIFF: I am not... (CROSSTALK) (UNKNOWN): Mr. Chairman, can he answer the question? SCHIFF: Yes, but it is my time. I'd like to ask the question. And the attorney general asked for a specific question. I am not, in any way, trying to make equivocal -- or equivalent -- our troops in the field, and what Al Qaida is doing. Don't even go there, Mr. Attorney General. But what I am saying is, if we don't establish a bright line, in this country, that we don't torture, then it makes it very hard for us to argue to other countries that they shouldn't torture our people, period. And I would still like an answer to my question. Why doesn't the attorney general of the United States have the power, notwithstanding a subordinate lawyer in the Office of Legal Counsel, to investigate whether a crime has been committed, if you believe that torture has been committed, in violation of the law? Why wouldn't you have the power to investigate that? MUKASEY: We have a bright line. We bar the torture. The evaluation of whether a particular practice constitutes torture could be presented to me only in a particular situation, namely, whether it was defined, part of a proposed program, in which case I would pronounced on it one way or the other, as I think I... SCHIFF: And you think that's a bright line that we can hold up to the rest of the world, that it depends on whether it's part of a program authorized by an attorney in the Office of Legal Counsel? Is that the standard we would ask the rest of the world to hold up? MUKASEY: We have and do defend our position before the rest of the world. We have people in the State Department who do a superb job at that. And we will continue to do that. SCHIFF: Does the definition of torture... (UNKNOWN): Mr. Chairman, time is... SCHIFF: If I can ask one last question, Mr. Chairman? You've said, in your Senate testimony, that -- I believe -- that, if you were being waterboarded, you would consider it torture. Does the definition of torture depend on who is being tortured or the circumstances in which they are being tortured? MUKASEY: I said, in my Senate testimony, that it would seem like torture to me. I said that as part of a much larger amount of testimony that indicated, I think, quite clearly, that I would not use my own tastes and preferences as the basis for arriving at a legal determination about whether a practice that was actually put before me, in concrete terms, was or was not torture. SCHIFF: Are you taking the position, Mr. Attorney General, that a practice which may be torture under certain circumstances is not torture under others, because either the information is desirable... CONYERS: The time of the gentleman has expired. You may finish this question and get a response. SCHIFF: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And the question is, are you taking the position that whether something is torture or not depends on who is being subjected to the technique and the desirability of the information? Does it vary, or is there simply one standard which is governed by the nature of the coercion? MUKASEY: The question of torture turns on what is in the torture statute, which does not speak, so far as I know, to the nature of the information. It speaks to the intent of the person imposing whatever it is that's claimed to be torture, and depends on other circumstances. SCHIFF: I would only say, that is not a bright line, that I think any of us can apply. CONYERS: The gentleman's time has expired.
01.31.08	01.31.08 Schiff Announces Nominations to U.S. Service Academies Thursday, January 31, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Announces Nominations to U.S. Service AcademiesWASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff announced that he has nominated eight students from the 29th Congressional District for appointments to U.S. service academies for the class of 2012. Four of the five United States service academies require a Congressional nomination in order to receive an appointment. Below is a list of the students Rep. Schiff has nominated. David Choi, Burbank resident, student at Campbell Hall, received nominations to the Air Force, Military and Merchant Marine Academies. Michael Finch, Glendale resident, student at St. Francis High School (La Cañada Flintridge), received nominations to the Military, Air Force and Merchant Marine Academies. Ruben Hovanesian, Glendale resident, student at Drexel University, received a nomination to the Merchant Marine Academy. Christian Kooshian, Altadena resident, student at John Muir High School (Pasadena), received a nomination to the Military Academy. Arthur Lin, Alhambra resident, student at Alhambra High School, received a nomination to the Military Academy. Dennis Lowe, Pasadena resident, student at Flintridge Preparatory School, received nominations to the Military, Naval, Air Force and Merchant Marine Academies. David Raba, Glendale resident, student at St. Francis High School (La Cañada Flintridge), received nominations to the Military, Naval and Merchant Marine Academies. Steven Stringfellow, Pasadena resident, student at Polytechnic School, received a nomination to the Merchant Marine Academy.“Each one of these students has compiled an outstanding resume of accomplishments and demonstrated excellence in academics,” said Schiff. “They are also deeply committed to serving our country. I am extremely proud to have nominated these young men, and I am confident they will be among the future leaders of our country.” The four academies requiring a Congressional nomination are the Air Force Academy, the Merchant Marine Academy, the Military Academy at West Point, and the Naval Academy. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, does not require a Congressional nomination. All five academies offer young men and women a free college education at a highly-ranked, nationally-recognized academic institution, while preparing them for an officer's commission in the armed forces.Students interested in applying to a Service Academy in 2009, should call Congressman Schiff’s District Office at 626-304-2727 or visit www.house.gov/Schiff to obtain an application form. The application deadline is November 14, 2008.Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
01.31.08	01.31.08 Schiff Honors Memory of Slain Journalist Hrant Dink One Year After his Death Thursday, January 31, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Honors Memory of Slain Journalist Hrant Dink One Year After his Death Washington D.C. – This week, in honor of the anniversary of the murder journalist Hrant Dink, Rep. Schiff remembered the memory of Mr. Dink with the following Congressional Record statement:“Madame Speaker:“It is with a mixture of anger and sadness that I rise today to honor the one year anniversary of the murder of Hrant Dink, the courageous Armenian-Turkish journalist, who was murdered by a Turkish extremist. “Mr. Dink founded the bilingual newspaper Agos in 1996, giving a voice to Turkey’s Armenians. He acted on his beliefs of building community and acknowledging the past, for which he was persecuted, prosecuted and eventually forced to pay the ultimate price. Clearly, however, his life’s work was not in vain; at his funeral, approximately one hundred thousand people marched behind his coffin, chanting, “We are all Dink. We are all Armenians.”“Before Mr. Dink’s untimely death last January, the Turkish government constantly tried to limit his freedom of speech. It confiscated copies of Agos on many occasions and on the flimsiest of pretenses. In 2004, Mr. Dink wrote an article stating that Turkey’s first woman pilot was an Armenian orphan adopted after 1915. The government convicted him of insulting “Turkishness” under Article 301 of the Penal Code, a law specifically designed to prevent discussion of the Armenian Genocide. He received a six-month suspended sentence. This was just one of several such prosecutions against Mr. Dink.“Mr. Dink’s courage to confront the historical facts of the Armenian Genocide cost him his life. He continually received threatening telephone calls, emails, and letters. He reported this terrorization to the police, but they failed to protect him. On January 19, 2007 an extreme nationalist teenager shot Mr. Dink three times outside the Agos offices in Istanbul, killing him. Court hearings continue, but Mr. Dink’s family stated that the investigation of his murder was conducted in secrecy and is incomplete.“Turkish prosecutions under Article 301 increased in 2007 and continued to affect Mr. Dink’s family. Arat Dink, his son, published an interview in which Mr. Dink said that the 1915 to 1917 Armenian massacres constituted genocide. Last October Arat Dink received a one year suspended sentence for publishing this interview. Punishing Mr. Dink’s son for publishing his murdered father’s words is a travesty and exposes the lengths to which Ankara will go to hide the truth about the Armenian Genocide. “Mr. Dink’s death was devastating to the democratic principle of a free and unfettered press and to the efforts of a handful of Turkish intellectuals who have been fighting to expose the crimes of Turkey’s Ottoman predecessor. Denying the Armenian Genocide harms Turkey and imperils the future of this important nation. As the world marks the anniversary of Dink’s murder I reiterate my call for Turkey to honor the memory of Hrant Dink by repealing Article 301, and to acknowledge the truth of the Armenian Genocide.“Together with his family and colleagues, the Armenian community in Turkey, and his admirers around the world, we remember Hrant Dink, heroic defender of speech and human rights, on the one-year anniversary of his murder.”Rep. Schiff is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
01.29.08	01.29.08 Extending the RESTORE Act on FISA CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESTuesday, January 29, 2008 Madam Speaker, last year the President and the Director of National Intelligence pushed for legislation that would make it easier for the NSA to collect intelligence on Americans and groups abroad. Among other things, the administration's legislation would allow warrantless eavesdropping of virtually all communications of Americans with anyone outside the U.S., so long as the government declared that the surveillance was directed at people reasonably believed to be located outside the U.S. I opposed the bill when it was considered by the House and instead joined with Chairman Conyers and Chairman Reyes in support of a responsible alternative that would have met the needs of the Director of National Intelligence without compromising the privacy of law-abiding Americans in ways that don't improve our security. The proposal included robust oversight and audit provisions designed to determine the impact of these changes on Americans. Unfortunately, Congress was forced hastily to pass the administration's version before adjourning in August. Nonetheless, Congress provided the law would sunset in 6 months to ensure that modifications were quickly made. Over 2 months ago the House returned to this debate by passing the RESTORE Act, legislation that updated FISA, provided these effective surveillance tools while ensuring robust oversight. Importantly, the RESTORE Act also provided protections to ensure that communications of U.S. persons were not acquired without some court involvement or supervision, provisions that were left out of the proposal passed in August. The other body has also drafted legislation aimed at modifying the bill that passed out of the House in August to provide oversight and additional protections. Unfortunately, they haven't completed their work. Some very thoughtful proposals like that by Senator Dianne Feinstein offer fresh ways to break the impasse over some very difficult issues. The proposals that they are debating and attempting to finalize have a number of notable departures from the House-passed version. With the August bill set to expire in 3 days, it's necessary for us to seek a temporary extension in order to ensure this House has a role in crafting its revision. The impending deadlines necessitate an extension, and I'm proud to support that very modest extension.
01.23.08	01.23.08 Schiff Tapped to Serve on House Select Intelligence Committee Wednesday, January 23, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Schiff Tapped to Serve on House Select Intelligence Committee Committee to oversee investigation into the destruction of CIA interrogation tapesWashington, DC – At a time when the House Intelligence Committee is engaged in critical work to improve intelligence gathering activities and undergoing a high profile investigation into the destruction of CIA interrogation tapes, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) late yesterday appointed Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) to serve on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Since his election to Congress, Rep. Schiff has advanced efforts to ensure the safety of all Americans by working to improve our intelligence gathering, implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations, and working to revamp the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to meet the challenges of the 21st Century. “I am grateful for the trust Speaker Pelosi has placed in me by appointing me to the Intelligence Committee, and I am looking forward to expanding on the intelligence work I have been doing thus far,” Schiff said. In 2007, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) appointed Congressman Schiff to the new House Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. This panel, which establishes the budget for the intelligence agencies, was formed in response to 9/11 Commission recommendations that there be more comprehensive oversight of the intelligence agencies’ mission, capability, coordination and budget. The panel works with the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee on intelligence funding, with the goal of strengthening the collaboration between those with direct oversight of the intelligence agencies and those who control the funding.“With ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and with Al Qaeda as much of a threat as ever, there is no greater priority than ensuring that our intelligence agencies have the resources they need and are operating within the law and with maximum effectiveness,” Schiff stated. The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence drafts the laws that govern the intelligence agencies operations. The committee is also responsible for overseeing the 16 agencies that comprise the intelligence community, which include components of the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Justice, State and Energy.Rep. Schiff is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and Financial Services Subcommittee. He also serves on the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
01.14.08	01.14.08 Congressman Schiff's Web Site Wins 2007 Gold Mouse Award Monday, January 14, 2008 Contact: Sean Oblack (202) 225-4176 Congressman Schiff’s Web Site Wins 2007 Gold Mouse AwardWashington, D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff’s web site was honored today by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), a non-profit, non-partisan management consulting and research organization in Washington, D.C., for having one of the best web sites in Congress. The site, http://schiff.dchou01.house.gov, was one of only 104 web sites commended in The 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill. To identify the awards, CMF analyzed 618 congressional web sites, including those of all Senate and House Members, committees (both majority and minority sites), and official leadership sites. In 2007, CMF awarded 36 Gold, 34 Silver, and 34 Bronze Mouse Awards. "I am delighted that my web site was named a Mouse Award winner by the Congressional Management Foundation,” Rep. Schiff said. “CMF does important work evaluating the constituent services of Members of Congress. I am always looking for ways to improve communications with my constituents, and this report provides me with valuable feedback on how to meet that goal using my web site.”Rep. Schiff continually works to ensure his web site is a user-friendly conduit for communicating with his constituents. He routinely evaluates his web site and updates it with the latest technology aimed at keeping his constituents informed and up-to-date on his efforts in Congress. The web site features a blog which provides Rep. Schiff with an informal way to communicate with constituents on issues ranging from the news of the day to community events to Congressional oversight hearings. On his web site one can also sign-up for his weekly newsletter “The Washington Update.” The newsletter includes interactive surveys, helpful links to his web site, and access to his email. The 2007 Gold Mouse Report and Awards are part of the “Connecting to Congress” research project, funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, University of California-Riverside and Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communication with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. “One of the key reasons for the awards is to highlight best practices so offices can improve their sites by learning from those doing a good job,” said Beverly Bell, CMF’s Executive Director. “Web sites like Rep Schiff’s provide a template for other congressional offices to follow.” “Rep. Schiff’s web site shows that he understands the value of creating a virtual office to reach specific audiences who have come to expect having their needs met online,” said Bell. “The Congressional Management Foundation congratulates Rep. Schiff for having a web site that is among the best-of-the-best on Capitol Hill, and we are pleased to present him with the 2007 Gold Mouse Award.”“The 2007 report shows that web sites are an increasingly critical channel through which Members and congressional committees can communicate with, and hear from, citizens. The Internet is a vital tool for elected officials and the public to use in the give-and-take of ideas and opinions that has characterized the American form of government since its founding” Bell said.Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five basic building blocks which extensive research identified as critical for effectiveness: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. Using these building blocks, an evaluation framework was developed by CMF and their research partners at Harvard, Ohio State, and the University of California-Riverside which would be fair and objective while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor's experience on a web site. A full copy of the report, the 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, is available on the Congressional Management Foundation’s web site at www.cmfweb.org.
12.19.07	12.19.07 Schiff Returns From Visit To Troops in Iraq Washington, DC – Rep. Adam Schiff recently returned from his fourth visit to Iraq - a three day trip during which he visited Baghdad, Haditha, Al Anbar and Al Asad. While in Iraq, he visited with troops and diplomatic personnel and handed out holiday cards he collected from constituents in the 29th District. Rep. Schiff was encouraged by the improved security he observed in the region, but was disappointed by the continued lack of political progress. In Baghdad, Rep. Schiff and the three other Members of Congress traveling with him met with General David Petraeus who outlined the improved military picture but also expressed concerns about the pace of political progress as well as the destructive role Iran has played in Iraq. “There is no substitute for an on-the-ground perspective of the situation in Iraq,” said Schiff. “This was a very valuable trip, and it allowed me to see personally the improvements in security and the outstanding work being performed by our courageous and dedicated servicemen and servicewomen. I remain deeply concerned, however, that the Iraqi government is not capitalizing on the improved military situation to achieve any notable political reconciliation.” Rep. Schiff took the opportunity while visiting Iraq to spread some holiday cheer on behalf of the constituents of the 29th District. Rep. Schiff brought with him hundreds of holiday cards from constituents, mostly from kids in the district, who had made them by hand. He also handed out a music CD that was compiled for the troops, which featured a variety popular songs, and was provided to him by John Ondrasik, lead vocalist of Five for Fighting. “I was happy to hand out so many holiday cards and CDs and everyone was very grateful to receive them,” said Schiff. “They appreciated the holiday cheer being so far away from home during this time of year. One Marine told me that getting the card and CD really made his day, which of course really made my day too.”One of the highlights of Rep. Schiff’s trip, originated from a conversation he had with an Indiana National Guardsman. While in Baghdad, Rep. Schiff met a soldier who had also served in Vietnam. The guardsman told Rep. Schiff how he chose to enlist to serve with his son after his son had been called upon to deploy to Iraq. This father proudly enlisted, even accepting a lower rank, just to serve with his son. Before being deployed, his son broke his leg and was unable to go to Iraq, but his dad was still sent. This great patriot and father expressed no regrets, telling Rep. Schiff of his decision and deployment: “It’s all good.”“My conversation with this particular Indiana Guardsman and father is one I will not soon forget,” said Schiff. “He exemplifies the dedication, commitment, and patriotism of our brave military personal. It was a treat to meet so many incredible men and women like this on the trip.”Two of the most promising changes Rep. Schiff witnessed in Iraq were evidence of the so-called “awakening” of the Sunni tribal chiefs and an improvement in defeating improvised explosive devises (IED). Many of the Sunni tribal chiefs have, in recent months, decided that al Qaeda is their greatest threat and are now working with our military to help them. Additionally, for the first time our armed forces are defeating IEDs faster than they are being planted, and we are seeing a decrease in the number of overall attacks and the number of successful attacks on our troops. While there has been measurable military progress, a political stalemate continues. General Petraeus said he remained concerned about the overall military and political situation, and was especially wary about Iran’s capacity to interfere in Iraq. Rep. Schiff believes that we need to capitalize on our recent military progress by stimulating political progress. Unfortunately, the pace of progress in Iraq’s National Assembly remains halting and unacceptable. “Overall, while I was heartened by the improvements in security and the reconstruction effort, I remain concerned about the inability of the Iraqis to come together to make the necessary political compromises that are key to a more peaceful future for the Iraqi people. While I remain as impressed as ever with General Petraeus and our troops, I heard nothing that would indicate that our commitment to Iraq should remain open-ended. At a time when our military is stretched too thin and with the situation in Afghanistan deteriorating, we must find a way to accelerate the end of the conflict and draw down our massive troop presence there.”
12.19.07	12.19.07 Obama, Schiff Provision to Create Nuclear Threat Reduction Plan Approved Washington, DC – Today, Senator Barack Obama (D-IL) and Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced that a provision authored by Obama and Senator Hagel (R-NE) in the Senate and advanced by Schiff in the House requiring a comprehensive nuclear threat reduction plan passed as part of the omnibus appropriations bill. This provision requires the President to submit to Congress a comprehensive plan for ensuring that all nuclear weapons and weapons-usable material at vulnerable sites around the world are secure by 2012 from the threats that terrorists have shown they can pose. The Senate passed the omnibus appropriations bill last night and the House approved the same bill today. It will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “If terrorists get their hands on a nuclear weapon or the essential material to make one, they could cause catastrophic damage to our homeland,” said Senator Obama. “It is imperative that we build and sustain a truly global effort under an aggressive timeline to secure, consolidate, and reduce stockpiles of nuclear weapons and weapons-usable material to keep them out of the wrong hands. The comprehensive nuclear threat reduction plan required by this provision is an important step in that effort.”“The greatest threat to our national security is the possible detonation of a nuclear weapon. Even the use of a radiological device would be devastating,” Schiff said. “Yet our national security policy does not reflect the urgency of dealing with this danger. We need a comprehensive effort to reduce the risk of nuclear terrorism, and this measure is a strong step in the right direction. I thank Senator Obama for his work on this important provision.” The Comprehensive Nuclear Threat Reduction provision requires the President to develop a strategy that will:ensure that all nuclear weapons and weapons-usable material at vulnerable sites around the world are secure by 2012 against the threats that terrorists have shown they can pose; ensure adequate accounting and security for such materials on an ongoing basis thereafter; include a plan for expanding the financial support and other assistance provided by other countries, particularly Russia, the European Union and its member states, China and Japan, for the purposes of securing nuclear weapons and weapons-usable material worldwide; andoutline the progress in and impediments to securing an agreement from all countries that possess nuclear weapons or weapons-usable material on a set of global nuclear security standards, consistent with their obligation to comply with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540.
12.17.07	12.17.07 Schiff, Culberson Help Secure Vital Funds for Core Jet Propulsion Laboratory Programs Washington, DC – Late tonight, the House is expected to pass a bill which will include funding for three important programs being managed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and John Culberson (R-TX) announced. Reps. Schiff and Culberson are members of the subcommittee charged with drafting the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations funding part of the bill, which included funding for the SIM PlanetQuest, the Mars Exploration Program, and the Outer Planets program. The funding is included in the Foreign Operations Appropriations/Consolidated Appropriations bill (H.R. 2764). This bill is also known as the omnibus appropriations bill for the Fiscal Year 2008, because it packages together several funding measures into one single bill. The omnibus is necessary due to both the inability of the Senate to pass individual funding measures and the President’s vetoes. “The space program brings together some of the nation’s greatest minds in pursuit of some of the nation’s greatest hopes and aspirations,” Schiff said. “In addition to expanding our understanding of the cosmos, the space program is responsible for many of the technological advancements we benefit from everyday. It is essential that America continues to lead the exploration of the universe if we as a nation want to keep our competitive edge in the global economy.”“Congressman Schiff and I have worked arm in arm from the beginning to ensure that our nation's space program is the best in the world, and that the exciting space missions led by JPL are fully funded. Great scientific and engineering achievements always accompany space exploration, which benefits all mankind. I am especially pleased that Adam and I were successful in winning full funding for the successful Mars program, the SIMS mission, which will identify the solar system we will ultimately visit in our first interstellar space mission, and the outer planet mission to the water world Europa, which has as much liquid salt water in its oceans as Earth. I am immensely proud to support NASA and JPL," said Congressman John Culberson. “Today, Congress renewed its commitment to remaining the world leader in space exploration -- and that's fabulous news," said JPL Director, Dr. Charles Elachi. "This funding is critical to advancing our understanding of our planet and our universe. I thank Congressmen Schiff and Culberson for their continuing support to NASA, space science and keeping our nation on the forefront of exploration."The bill contains $60 million for the development phase of the SIM program, which will determine more accurately the positions and distances of stars throughout the galaxy and probe nearby stars for Earth-sized planets. To accomplish this, SIM will use optical interferometry technology to develop telescopes powerful enough to take images of Earth-like planets orbiting distant stars and attempts to determine whether these planets can sustain life. Reps. Schiff and Culberson fought hard to maximize SIM funding above the President’s request, and the $60 million amount is $39 million more than expected. Reps. Schiff and Culberson also worked hard to ensure robust funding of the Mars work at JPL, and the bill included $626.4 million to continue the Mars Exploration Program. The Mars program is the centerpiece of NASA’s exploration of our planetary neighbors. The funding included in this bill will enable JPL to continue its program of launching a mission to the Red Planet every 26 months. The Mars Phoenix Lander, which is to be launched in August, is the next step in our search for evidence that Mars once had conditions that would have supported life. The resources in this measure will fund this mission, the Mars Science Laboratory that is due to launch in 2009, as well as future missions. Importantly, it will also continue to fund the work of the rovers “Spirit” and “Opportunity,” which are still exploring Mars almost four years after landing there.Lastly, Reps. Schiff and Culberson successfully sought $5 million for NASA’s Outer Planets Program. This funding will be used to begin the initial concept development of a new mission to the outer planets.
12.05.07	12.05.07 House Passes Bono, Schiff Arson Prevention Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Coming on the heels of some of the most destructive wildfires in California’s history, the House today passed the Managing Arson Through Criminal History Act (MATCH, H.R. 1759). The MATCH Act, introduced by Reps. Mary Bono (R-CA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) in March, would establish a comprehensive nationwide database to track convicted arsonists. In early November, Reps. Schiff and Bono and Burbank Fire Chief Tracy Pansini testified at a Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee on behalf of the bill. “This critically important legislation has the potential to prevent fire tragedies from striking again, and to assist in apprehending those responsible for arson,” said Schiff. “I am pleased with the overwhelming bipartisan support for this measure. Its passage will deter convicted arsonists from committing further offenses, and better protect our state and nation from devastating wildfires.”“Currently, we don’t have any vehicle to track arsonists on the national level or state level even though it is known that an individual that committed an act of arson is more likely to commit a future act,” said Burbank Fire Chief Tracy Pansini in testimony before Congress in November. “Generally, when it gets too hot for arsonists they move to other areas, but with a MATCH Act registry in place we would be better equipped to find a prolific arsonist.” The MATCH Act, strongly supported by local law enforcement and fire authorities, would consolidate federal, state and local resources in combating arson. The legislation mirrors existing national criminal databases. It would create a national arson registry and would require convicted arsonists to report where they live, work and go to school. The database would include finger and palm prints of the arsonist, a recent photograph, vehicle information, criminal history and other relevant information. This database would only be available to law enforcement and not the general public. The MATCH Act also establishes the Criminal Arsonist Management Assistance Program, which ensures that jurisdictions have the necessary means to manage and maintain their local registry.Rep. Schiff serves on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. He also serves on the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
12.05.07	12.05.07 House Judiciary Members Introduce Bill to Protect Creative and Intellectual Property Rights Washington, DC - In an effort to strengthen laws protecting creative and intellectual property, leaders of the House Judiciary Committee today introduced bipartisan legislation to improve federal agency enforcement efforts and provide more resources to those efforts. House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX), Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet and Intellectual Property Chairman Howard Berman (D-CA), and Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA), Tom Feeney (R-FL), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Steve Chabot (R-OH), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Ric Keller (R-FL), Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), and Robert Wexler (D-FL) introduced the "Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property (“PRO IP”) Act of 2007" to combat what they say is an increasing problem."This legislation is an important and necessary step in the fight to maintain our competitive edge in a global marketplace," Chairman Conyers said. "By providing additional resources for enforcement of intellectual property, we ensure that innovation and creativity will continue to prosper in our society."“Intellectual property is not just the product of rock stars and movie stars. It accounts for more than 11 million American jobs and is a driving force in our economy,” said Rep. Schiff. “American intellectual property is leading the way all around the world and this bill will help ensure that we protect this work from being stolen in the black market.” The bipartisan PRO IP bill is supported by both labor unions and industry groups because of the increasing global economic cost of counterfeiting and piracy - which is currently between $500 and $600 billion/year in lost sales and approximately 5% - 7% of global trade. It costs the United States between $200 and $250 billion/year in lost sales, including 750,000 jobs. The healthcare industry also faces an increasing problem: the World Health Organization estimates that the prevalence of counterfeit pharmaceuticals ranges from less than 1% in developed countries to over 30% in developing countries, and over 50% of counterfeit pharmaceuticals are obtained from illicit websites. The Center for Medicine in the Public Interest estimates that counterfeit drug commerce will grow 13% annually through 2010, nearly twice the rate of legitimate pharmaceuticals. "The Subcommittee on Intellectual Property will be holding a hearing next week on this extremely important issue," said Subcommittee Chairman Berman. "As a cosponsor, I obviously feel very strongly that we must strengthen enforcement efforts to fight piracy and counterfeiting. At the hearing, we will be hearing testimony from both industry experts and from labor and consumer advocates to make sure that in doing so, we don't deny appropriate access to America's intellectual property."“Protecting intellectual property, such as trademarks and copyrights, is critical to the preserving a strong American economy,” stated Ranking Member Smith. “Counterfeiting and pirating intellectual property costs American jobs, reduces American prosperity and threatens the existence of American companies. By protecting intellectual property, this bill preserves American jobs, encourages innovation and helps build a strong American economy.” “Our founding fathers understood the importance of innovation so well that they specifically provided strong protection for intellectual property in the Constitution itself," said Rep. Feeney. "Intellectual property piracy and counterfeiting undermine the creative spirit that drives our economy and constitute a threat to consumer health and safety, and this initiative will provide us with more tools to address this growing problem.”Specifically, the PRO IP bill does the following:Titles I and II strengthen the substantive civil and criminal laws relating to copyright and trademark infringement. Title III of the legislation establishes the Office of the United States Intellectual Property Enforcement Representative (USIPER), in the Executive Office of the President, to enhance nationwide and international coordination of intellectual property enforcement efforts. Title IV provides for the appointment of intellectual property officers to work with foreign countries in their efforts to combat counterfeiting and piracy. Title V of the legislation authorizes the creation of a permanent Intellectual Property Division within the Department of Justice. The purpose of the new IP Division is to improve law enforcement coordination. This is accomplished, in part, by transferring the functions of the existing Computer Crime and Intellectual Property section (CCIPs) that relate to intellectual property enforcement to the new IP Division. In addition, Title V provides DOJ with new resources targeted to improve IP law enforcement, including local law enforcement grants and additional investigative and prosecutorial personnel. It also requires that DOJ prepare an annual report that details its IP enforcement activities.
12.04.07	12.04.07 Schiff Rim of the Valley Measure Passes House Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed Rep. Adam Schiff’s (D-CA) Rim of the Valley Corridor Study legislation. The measure directs the Secretary of the Interior to study the feasibility of expanding the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include the mountains and canyons in Southern California that are part of the Rim of the Valley Corridor, as designated by the State of California. Rep. Schiff’s measure was included in the America's Historical and Natural Legacy Study Act (H.R. 3998) which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to conduct special resources studies of the Rim of the Valley and other lands and structures to determine the appropriate means for preservation and use.“This important measure will enable a study of alternatives for protecting some of the most beautiful land in southern California for future generations of Americans to enjoy,” said Schiff. “The Rim of the Valley is a special place and we owe it to our children to develop a long-range plan that will balance preservation, recreation and the needs and rights of those living in and around the area.”The bill would authorize the Interior Department to examine the suitability of increasing the size of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area by encompassing part or all of this corridor, which is an ecologically significant contiguous region that consists of parts of the Santa Monica Mountains, Santa Susanna Mountains, San Gabriel Mountains, Verdugo Mountains, San Rafael Hills, and adjacent connector areas to the Los Padres and San Bernadino National Forests.Senator Dianne Feinstein has introduced similar legislation in the Senate this year. In the past, a similar version of this bill was approved by the House Resources Committee and passed by the full Senate. Rep. Schiff serves on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. He also serves on the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
11.07.07	11.07.07 Schiff Secures Funds to Help Improve the Quality of Life in Our Region Washington, DC – Late last night, the House passed a measure that includes important funds aimed at improving the quality of life in our area, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) announced today. The Fiscal Year 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill included funding for family services, a medical center expansion, a library improvement project and an after school arts program for low-income children. Following approval in the Senate, the bill will be sent to the President to be signed into law. “These funds are vital investments that support local emergency care, libraries, and family centers,” said Schiff. “They will make our community a safer, healthier, and more prosperous place to live.”The Glendale Adventist Medical Center (GAMC) will receive $375,000 to assist in renovations that will double the size of its emergency room. This renovation and upgrade will help improve access to emergency medical care in the region, which has suffered due to the recent closings of hospitals and emergency rooms in the area. GAMC is partnering with a local Federally Qualified Health Clinic to increase access to healthcare to the uninsured and underinsured population.“Glendale Adventist has a century-long history of meeting the health care needs of this community with quality services,” said Morre Dean, President & CEO of Glendale Adventist Medical Center. “As access to health care continues to be a challenging national issue, we are proud to invest in this community's health well into the future. We greatly appreciate Congressman Schiff's work on behalf of GAMC and for the health of our community.”Additionally, the bill includes $200,000 for the City of San Gabriel’s library improvement project. The San Gabriel Library will use the funds to support and expand the services which the library can provide the public, with a particular emphasis on services to youth and school-related activities. This project will help increase the level of library use by providing students with computers and other necessary tools to do research assignments. Included in the bill is $150,000 for the Union Station Foundation of Pasadena for its Family Center. The funds will benefit homeless families through career development assistance, housing assistance, after-school activities, tutoring, and medical care. The services provided by the Family Center are directed toward offering homeless families the resources they need to transform their lives and become self-supporting. “The homeless families who come to live at our 50-bed Family Center have nowhere else to turn and are often beset by numerous, complex problems. After their stay with us, so many are able to live independently in a healthy and productive manner,” said Union Station Executive Director Rabbi Marvin Gross.The Armory Center for the Arts in Pasadena will receive $75,000 for its Walk to Art program. The Walk to Art program offers free after-school and weekend art workshops that reach over 4,000 low-income children and youth each year. Walk to Art is taught by professional artists at libraries, parks, schools, community centers, and social service agencies, and it serves low-income neighborhoods in order to provide kids an opportunity they would otherwise not have to participate in art activities.“Walk to Art provides important and otherwise absent programs to neighborhoods with profound challenges,” said Armory Center for the Arts Executive Director Scott Ward. “At a time of troubling violence and intolerance the Armory uses the power of art to transform lives and communities.”Lastly, the appropriation measure also includes $125,000 for the North-West Pasadena Development Corporation (NWPDC) run by the Community Bible Church (CBC) for its "Families in Transition" (F.I.T.) program. The F.I.T. program provides families with needed education and job training assistance. The program provides families with a wide range of diverse life skills programs including job training, educational assistance, and parenting and independent living skills training. “We’re grateful and excited to be included in this bill. These funds will enable us to expand our services in the Families in Transition Program as we continue to work towards transforming and improving the lives of those we serve in the City of Pasadena,” said Community Bible Church Pastor Jean Burch.
10.23.07	10.23.07 Schiff, Goodlatte Laud Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement Initiative Washington, D.C. -- Today, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, joined U.S. Trade Representative Susan C. Schwab and other Members of Congress to announce the negotiation of a new Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA). The ACTA will establish an international framework to combat intellectually property rights counterfeiting and piracy around the world, which has a devastating impact on the U.S. economy. “On an individual level, copyright infringement is nothing less than high-tech shoplifting,” said Congressman Schiff. “In the aggregate, it can destroy whole industries. There is no difference between stealing a DVD from a store and selling a pirated CD on the street or uploading it to the Internet. This Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement will take action to ensure piracy is taken seriously around the globe – ultimately helping to protect American jobs.”“America is the world leader in innovation precisely because of its exceptionally strong intellectual property laws,” said Goodlatte. “It is clear that each nation must realize that copyright piracy and counterfeiting are serious problems that do not merely affect private companies’ bottom lines in the short term. They also discourage investment and innovation in the long term, which eventually leads to fewer consumer choices – a repercussion that affects entire societies and economies. I applaud the USTR for her continued work to encourage our global partners to join the serious fight against piracy.”The ACTA will take concrete steps to better protect intellectual property. It will seek to increase international cooperation by making it easier for nations to share information for improved enforcement efforts. It will develop a set of “best practices” which countries will use to support protection efforts for intellectual property. Lastly, the agreement will work to establish a strong legal framework which nations can use to better prosecute criminal offenders. The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, formed in 2003 by Representatives Goodlatte and Schiff and Senators Gordon Smith and Joseph Biden, is made up of 65 members of Congress. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems; staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy; demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy; and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
10.17.07	10.17.07 Bipartisan Armenian Genocide Resolution will Ensure United States Remains a Moral Leader Around the World Washington, D.C. -- Today, U.S. Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and George Radanovich (R-CA), lead sponsors of the Armenian Genocide Resolution; Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) and Joe Knollenberg (R-MI), co-chairmen of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues; and Brad Sherman (D-CA) and Ed Royce (R-CA), senior members of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs highlighted the importance of recognizing the murder of a million and a half Armenians between 1915-1923 as genocide. The six lawmakers, all Members of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, issued the following statement today:“Today, Congress rightly honored the Dalai Lama with the Congressional Gold Medal at a ceremony in the Capitol, despite the ardent objections of the Chinese government.“In this demonstration of moral virtue, Congress today stood up for what is right and would not be intimidated by threats from another nation. In awarding the Dalai Lama the highest civilian honor Congress can bestow, Congress showed its commitment to promoting peace around the world. We will not let another country impede our efforts to speak out against inhumanity.“As we take this principled moral stand in defiance of the Chinese government, we must similarly be willing to speak out on the Armenian Genocide. If we as a nation are to be a moral leader around the world we must have the courage to recognize genocide whenever and wherever it occurs.”The Armenian Genocide has been recognized by more than 20 nations including Canada, Italy, Sweden, France, Argentina and Russia. This resolution is consistent with the record of the U.S. House of Representatives in speaking out against genocides – past and present. The House has passed resolutions on the Holocaust and the genocides in Cambodia, Darfur, Ukraine and Bosnia.
10.10.07	10.10.07 Schiff Lauds Committee Passage of Resolution Calling on the United States to Fully Recognize the Armenian Genocide Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) praised the House Foreign Affairs Committee’s passage of a resolution he authored recognizing and commemorating the Armenian Genocide. The House Foreign Affairs Committee passed H. Res. 106 clearing the way for the measure to be voted on by the full House. The bipartisan measure currently has 226 cosponsors – more than a majority in the House and the most support an Armenian Genocide resolution has ever received. Both Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer have voiced support for the resolution. “Today’s Committee passage clears a major hurdle in moving this resolution forward, and I hope it will move swiftly to the House floor for a vote,” Schiff said. “America must speak candidly about the past not only to help heal the wounds of the survivors and the families of the victims, but to give the United States the moral authority it needs to take action against other genocides like that taking place today in Darfur.” “The Affirmation of the U.S. Record on the Armenian Genocide” resolution calls on the President to “ensure that the foreign policy of the United States reflects appropriate understanding” of the “Armenian Genocide” and to “accurately characterize the systematic and deliberate annihilation of 1,500,000 Armenians as genocide.” Rep. Schiff is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of the House Appropriations Committee, the House Judiciary Committee and the House Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.05.07	10.05.07 Schiff Introduces Legislation Calling on the President to Work to Close a Dangerous Nuclear Loophole Washington, DC – Continuing his career-long effort to reduce the threat of nuclear weapons, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation to prevent nations that violate and then withdraw from the Treaty on Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) from keeping nuclear materials or technology obtained through the treaty. The measure would also encourage the President to pursue a U.N. Security Council Resolution that declares that withdrawal from the NPT requires the return of any internationally-obtained nuclear materials or technology. “Unfortunately, it now appears that the shortest path to a nuclear weapon passes through the NPT,” said Schiff. “Countries obtain nuclear assistance while being signatories to the NPT, and later violate and withdraw from the treaty retaining their ill-gotten nuclear gains. This appears to be the case with North Korea, and, if we don't stop them, may be true of Iran. This is a dangerous loophole in the Treaty that must be closed.”The NPT has played an important role in reducing the number of nuclear nations. In the four decades since it was signed, only five additional nations have developed nuclear weapons and only four of those possess them now, far fewer than experts predicted at the time. However, the treaty is under increasing strain due to rogue states that use the nuclear energy cooperation that the NPT promises to non-nuclear-weapon states as a stepping stone to nuclear weapons.By attaching a clear penalty, nations would be discouraged from using the NPT to obtain nuclear technology and simply “opting out” at the last moment. Over the last few years, North Korea demonstrated that it was possible to use the NPT to obtain dual-use nuclear energy technology that allowed it to proceed most of the way down the path to nuclear weapons, before leaving the treaty and developing weapons in short order. Now, Iran appears to be following the same route, enriching uranium that is nominally for use in nuclear reactors, but could easily be fed into a nuclear weapons program. Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on efforts to secure vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. In May, Rep. Schiff introduced the bipartisan Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act, to bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists. In the 109th Congress, he introduced legislation to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program and establish an Office of Nonproliferation Programs in the Executive Office of the President. In April 2004, Rep. Schiff introduced H.R. 4212 which would have created a Presidential Task Force within the Department of Energy to focus on an immediate strategy to secure nuclear material around the world. He also introduced legislation (H.R. 2063) to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program to include countries outside the former Soviet Union, such as Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq in May of 2003. That same month, he joined Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to strengthen the United States' efforts to safeguard or destroy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and related materials around the world.
09.18.07	09.18.07 Schiff Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Prevent Gang Violence Washington, D.C. – Late yesterday, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation to halt gang violence. The Gang Prevention, Intervention and Suppression Act (H.R. 3547) would provide new resources for community-based gang prevention and intervention activities. The bill would also revise criminal laws and penalties to give gang prosecutors new tools in the fight against gang violence. The legislation will target resources to communities with severe gang activity and includes more than $1 billion in funding for law enforcement, prevention, and intervention programs. “As a former federal prosecutor, I have seen firsthand the damage gangs cause in our community,” said Schiff. “Significantly, this bill takes concrete steps in fighting gang violence by increasing federal support for proven gang prevention efforts to keep kids out of trouble. But equally, for those who do engage in gang violence, the bill will give law enforcement an enhanced ability to crack down on gang offenders and increase penalties for those gang members who terrorize our communities.” “Representative Schiff’s gang prevention bill would help not just the communities he represents, but towns and cities around the country that are struggling to deal with gangs,” said Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD). “Democrats are committed to helping local governments keep our communities safe.”According to the Los Angeles Police Department, crime in Los Angeles has decreased for the last five years. However, gang-related crime is on the rise. In 2006, gang-related crime increased by 15.7 percent citywide. That translates into 1,046 additional gang-related crimes in 2006 from the previous year. Those crimes include additions in homicides, attempted homicides, felony assaults, and robberies. The Gang Prevention, Intervention and Suppression Act would authorize over $1 billion spread out over five years for prevention and enforcement efforts. Much of the funding would be directed toward the High Intensity Gang Activity Area (HIGAA) program. This program facilitates cooperation between local, state and federal law enforcement in identifying, targeting and eliminating violent gangs in areas where gang activity is particularly prevalent. Half of the HIGAA funding, or $250 million, would be specified for community-based intervention and prevention initiatives focused on at-risk youth. Additional funding is also included in the bill for education and employment programs targeted at former gang members to help them attain a GED, develop job skills, and be placed in an apprenticeship. The Gang Prevention, Intervention and Suppression Act would give gang prosecutors new tools to combat gang-related crime by:Creating new criminal gang offenses to prohibit recruitment for street gangs and target gangs who recruit children;Enhancing penalties for repeated violent gang crime offenses;Establishing penalties for violence committed in drug trafficking related offenses; andEnacting various other changes to federal criminal code to more effectively deter and punish violence by criminal street gangs and other violent criminals.Rep. Schiff has long fought to end gang violence dating back to his days as a federal prosecutor and State Senator. While serving in the State Senate, he introduced landmark anti-gang legislation, called “The Schiff Cardenas Crime Prevention Act of 2000,” which for the first time invested as much in the prevention of crime as in the suppression of crime. The bill introduced today improves upon anti-gang legislation that Rep. Schiff introduced earlier this year, and incorporates additional input from a broad coalition of organizations interested in gang crime prevention. Rep. Schiff was appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. He also serves on the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
08.07.07	08.07.07 Congress Authorizes Funding for Local Clean Drinking Water Project Washington D.C. – Late last night, the House passed legislation authorizing $5 million for the Southern California Foothill Communities Water Supply Reliability Program (WSRP). The authorization for the WSRP, which will provide clean drinking water for millions of local Southern California residents, was included in the Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 1495) conference report. In February, Rep. Schiff wrote to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, James Oberstar (D-MN) and James Mica (R-FL), requesting that the committee provide authorization for funding of WSRP in H.R. 1495. The bill will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. "The Water Supply Reliability Program is vitally important to our region’s health, safety, and security,” Schiff said. “This program will help ensure that millions of Southern Californians will always have access to clean, safe drinking water. I urge the President to sign the measure promptly so we can move this program and other efforts to ensure safe, clean drinking water forward.” The WSRP, which includes San Gabriel Basin, Raymond Basin, Six Basins, and Chino Basin, will bring surplus rain water from Northern California into local groundwater basins, replenish diminished water supplies, utilize available groundwater storage and enhance the efficiency, security and reliability of regional drinking water delivery systems. It will help provide a safe drinking water supply for over 2.5 million Southern California, San Gabriel Foothill and Inland Empire area residents.Rep. Schiff was appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and Financial Services Subcommittee. He also serves on the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel and the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
08.01.07	08.01.07 Rep. Schiff Cosponsors Legislation Recognizing Two Pioneers of Innovation and Exploration WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Adam Schiff joined Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), and Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) in introducing legislation to re-designate NASA’s Dryden Flight Research Center as the Neil A. Armstrong Flight Research Center and the Western Aeronautical Test Range as the Hugh L. Dryden Aeronautical Test Range.“Neil Armstrong and Hugh Dryden are true American Heroes,” said Adam Schiff. “Naming NASA’s Flight Research Center and the Western Aeronautical Test Range after these men is not only a fitting way to honor them but it is a great way to help inspire our next generation to strive to follow in their footsteps.” “Southern California is an integral part of our country’s space exploration and aeronautical history,” said Rep. Calvert, the former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics. “It is important to recognize both the NASA Flight Research Center and the Western Aeronautical Test Range for their contributions and what better way to do that then to associate them with two great American space and aeronautics pioneers; Neil Armstrong and Hugh Dryden.”“It is fitting that we pay tribute to these two American heroes who contributed to the great success of the American space program,” said Rep. McCarthy. “Neil Armstrong and Dr. Hugh Dryden embody the innovative spirit that continues to move NASA forward, inspiring the next generation of aerospace pioneers and advancing our legacy as the global leader in space exploration.”“Developing the United States space program has become one of the greatest endeavors this country has undertaken, so it is with tremendous honor that I help memorialize two of our most notable aeronautical contributors, Neil A. Armstrong and Dr. Hugh L. Dryden,” Rep. McKeon noted. “The success of these two men helped advance NASA to be one of the finest exploration programs in the world.”The legislation, H.R. 3245, will accomplish three important goals: (1) to honor Neil A. Armstrong, the first human to walk on the Moon and a former test pilot who worked at the center from 1955 to 1962; (2) to emphasize the contributions of that center to the agency’s current space exploration mission; and (3) to memorialize the extraordinary career of Dr. Hugh L. Dryden by naming the aeronautical test range, approximately 12,000 square miles of special use airspace in his honor. The Dryden Flight Research Center, located at Edwards, California, is NASA's primary center for atmospheric flight research and operations. NASA Dryden is also critical in carrying out the agency's missions of space exploration, space operations, scientific discovery, and aeronautical research and development. Before Armstrong became an astronaut in 1962, he served for seven years as a test pilot at what was then called the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) High-Speed Flight Station. The station was later established as a NASA center and eventually named after Hugh L. Dryden, one of America's most prominent aeronautical engineers. By the time he became an astronaut, Armstrong amassed 2,400 hours of flying time as a test pilot there, about 900 of it in jets. Dr. Hugh L. Dryden, was Director of NACA from 1947 until the creation of NASA in 1958, and was named Deputy Administrator of the new aerospace agency when it was created in response to the Sputnik crisis. As an aeronautical scientist and engineer, Dr. Dryden made great contributions to our nation and the world in fields such as aerodynamics research and rocket plane research and testing.
07.23.07	07.23.07 House Passes Schiff Measure to Prevent the Spouses of Elected Officials and Candidates from Collecting Campaign Checks Washington, DC – Today, in an effort to continue to raise the bar on ethical standards in Congress, the House passed a bipartisan measure authored by Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA), which will end the potentially corrupt practice of allowing federal office holders and candidates to employ their spouses in their campaign. The Campaign Expenditure Transparency Act (H.R. 2630), cosponsored by Rep. Michael Castle (R-DE), would amend campaign finance laws to prohibit a practice whereby spouses of federal candidates are on the payroll of the candidate’s campaign and would also require the disclosure of all other immediate family members who are employed by the candidate’s campaign. “There have been too many reports of corruption and abuse in Congress over the last few years, and the passage of this bill with bipartisan support marks an important step forward in restoring the public’s confidence that elected officials are working in the public’s interest and not their own,” said Schiff. “Candidates run for federal office to serve the public, not to financially profit from the campaign.” “Members of Congress and Congressional candidates should not pay spouses from campaign funds. I would prefer if HR 2630 went beyond spouses and included a ban to keep all family members off campaign payrolls but this bill will move us in the right direction to eliminate abuse and also minimize the perception of abuse,” Castle said. Speaker Pelosi said: “Democrats are committed to reforming the way Washington does business. Congressman Schiff’s bill will help us accomplish that goal by increasing transparency in election campaigns and preventing the misuse of funds.”“The Campaign Expenditure Transparency Act will help strengthen the people's trust in their government - without trust Congress can't help move the nation forward in a new direction,” said Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. This legislation is part of Democrats’ promise to restore high ethical standards to Washington and clean up the culture of corruption that emerged under Republicans in recent years.”The practice of paying family members, particularly spouses, has the potential to raise many conflicts of interests, given that the candidate stands to potentially benefit financially from any compensation paid to a spouse. This bill halts that practice, and it further ensures that the public is informed of any payment made to an immediate family member from the campaign. A particularly egregious example of this practice involves the spouse of an elected official earning commissions for fundraising activity. In those situations, the candidate or elected official personally pockets a percentage of all campaign funds through the spouse’s commissions. Congressman Schiff has a long record of fighting for campaign finance reform. On his first day in Congress, he cosponsored the McCain/Feingold campaign finance reform legislation and helped organize freshman members to support its passage. Original cosponsors include: Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, Majority Whip James Clyburn, Democratic Caucus Chair Rahm Emanuel, Democratic Vice Chair John Larson, Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chair Chris Van Hollen, and Rules Committee Chair Louise Slaughter. Republican Co-sponsor Mike Castle of Delaware is also joined by Republican Rep. Todd Platts of Pennsylvania. Rep. Schiff was appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and Financial Services Subcommittee. He also serves on the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel and the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
07.12.07	07.12.07 Schiff Helps Secures Funds for Important Jet Propulsion Laboratory Programs Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff announced that the House Appropriations Committee passed a bill which included funding for three important programs being managed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena. Rep. Schiff is a member of the subcommittee charged with drafting the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill, which included funding for the SIM PlanetQuest, the Mars Exploration Program, and the Outer Planets program. “The space program represents the best of our nation’s ingenuity, perseverance, and intelligence,” Schiff said. “In addition to expanding our understanding of the cosmos, the space program is responsible for many of the technological advancements we benefit from everyday. It is essential that America continues to lead the exploration of the universe if we as a nation want to keep our competitive edge in the global economy.”The bill contains $71.6 million for the development phase of the SIM program, which will determine more accurately the positions and distances of stars throughout the galaxy and probe nearby stars for Earth-sized planets. To accomplish this, SIM will use optical interferometry technology to develop telescopes powerful enough to take images of Earth-like planets orbiting distant stars to determine whether these planets can sustain life. Schiff fought hard to maximize SIM funding above the President’s request, and the $72 million amount is $50 million more than expected. Schiff also worked hard to ensure robust funding of the Mars work at JPL, and the bill included $625.7 million to continue the Mars Exploration Program. The Mars program is the centerpiece of NASA’s exploration of our planetary neighbors. The funding included in this bill will enable JPL to continue its program of launching a mission to the red planet every 26 months. The Mars Phoenix Lander, which is to be launched in August, is the next step in our search for evidence that Mars once had conditions that would have supported life. The resources in this measure will fund this mission, the Mars Science Laboratory that is due to launch in 2009, as well as future missions. Importantly, it will also continue to fund the work of the rovers “Spirit” and “Opportunity,” which are still exploring Mars more than three and a half years after landing there.Lastly, Schiff successfully sought $10 million for NASA’s Outer Planets Program. This funding will be used to begin the initial concept development of a new mission to the outer planets.
06.22.07	06.22.07 Biotechnology Workforce Training Center in Pasadena to Receive Federal Funding Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Schiff announced that the House Appropriations Committee has passed legislation, which includes $231,000 to support the start-up of three regional non-profit centers designed to assist and enhance development of the region’s innovative biotechnology businesses. The funding will support the California State University Program for Research and Education in Biotechnology (CSUPERB). The CSUPERB will provide innovative training for this vital industry’s specialized workforce.“These centers will help train a 21st century workforce in the fast moving field of biotechnology,” Schiff said. “Advances in biotech have already transformed the field of medicine. California is a worldwide leader in the life sciences, as home to more than half the biotechnology firms in America. Many of the new leaders in this field are start-up firms, spun off from Caltech. This training project will help keep Southern California on the forefront of biotech generally, and grow the emerging biotech corridor in our own community. The experts trained in the Cal State system will move into the biotechnology workforce and help develop the next generation of biologically derived medical treatments and cures.”“Biotechnology is one of the most exciting and promising industries of our era,” said State Senator Jack Scott, 21st state senate district. “This new federal funding is a very important component in continuing California's development as a leader in biotechnology. The Pasadena workforce training center will build on my earlier work with the state and California State University to make Pasadena a biotech anchor for the Los Angeles region. This center will help address our region's strong local demand for biotech training, research, and incubation services.”The funding provided in the Financial Services Appropriations bill was included at the request of Rep. Schiff, who is a member of the subcommittee which drafted the measure. The CSUPERB is creating three regional biotechnology workforce training centers in the Pasadena, East Bay, and San Diego areas. The centers could also meet other regional needs, such as training members of the first responder community in biotechnology-related procedures. Achieving these goals will require the development of training programs, laboratories, and applied research settings.
06.21.07	06.21.07 Reps. Schiff, Israel Fight to Keep Green Export Provision in Foreign Aid Spending Bill Washington, DC – With the news of China surpassing the United States in carbon dioxide emissions, U.S. Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Steve Israel (D-NY) will fight to maintain a provision they requested in the House Fiscal Year 2008 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill that will require that at least 10 percent of the Export-Import Bank’s (EX-IM) investments in energy projects be allocated for renewable energy projects. “Our provision, could quadruple the amount of advanced energy we export through this program,” explained Congressman Israel, who also sits on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. “With China surpassing the United States as the number one producer of carbon dioxide emissions, it is clear that there is a growing world market for American green exports. Still, we’re lagging behind other countries in our production of renewable energy technologies. Increasing our renewable energy exports creates jobs at home while improving our energy security.”“While the United States and its allies in the developed world are cumulatively the greatest sources of greenhouse gas emissions, the developing world is catching up,” said Schiff. “China is bringing a new coal-fired electrical plant on line every week. India uses enormous amounts of very dirty coal and many other nations are doing the same. It is in America’s national interest to help develop green technologies in the developing world.”EX-IM established an Environmental Exports Program in 1994 and has financed a number of “green” projects. Recently, EX-IM provided a loan guarantee for a $5.2 million sale of 55 air quality monitoring machines to China. However, despite the growing demand worldwide for clean energy, fossil fuel projects still receive the vast majority of EX-IM’s support in the energy sector. The Israel-Schiff provision could result in an estimated $1 billion in additional green exports in 2008.
06.13.07	06.13.07 Supporting the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill Mr. Chairman, I would like to make, essentially, two points. First, my friends in the minority lack credibility on the issue they have raised last night and today; and, second, this bill is far too important to be stalled, delayed, put off by blatantly partisan tactics.On the first point, why does the minority party lack credibility on this issue? Well, one of the two parties during the last 6 years took the largest surpluses, I think we have had in history, and managed to turn those surpluses into deficits, a multitrillion dollar turnaround that was accomplished in a record short time. That party was the party of my friends in the GOP. That's the same party today that is arguing for fiscal responsibility.One of the two parties presided over the greatest growth and expansion and acceleration and abuse of the earmarking process in history, brought that process to a point where it accounted for more earmarks and more dollars than ever before. That party was also the GOP.One of the parties in this House presided over a period that resulted in more indictments of Members, more investigations of Members, more appearance of impropriety than any time since ABSCAM or Watergate. That party was the Republican Party.That same party that abused the earmark process, that had no earmark transparency is now objecting to what? It is now objecting to an earmark process that is better, that is more transparent than it has ever been. That party is objecting to the work of the majority which eliminated all earmarks in last year's bill.So here you have a party that has demonstrated over the last 5 or 6 years utter fiscal irresponsibility, a lack of willingness to reform the earmark process, now complaining that, okay, the Democrats are reforming the process, they are making it more transparent, but we are complaining because we think they should take it much farther.Well, I think the last 6 years demonstrated a lack of credibility, a serious lack of credibility among my friends in the minority party.Why is this bill so important? Why is this bill essential to move forward, and why are these partisan stalling tactics so questionable?This is the bill that provides the resources to defend our country. I am just going to focus on one because there are numerable areas of this bill that are so vital. But if you go back 5 or 6 years ago when President Bush and Senator Kerry had their debate, they were asked what is the number one security threat facing this country. Their answer surprisingly was the same, nuclear terrorism, the idea that al Qaeda could get nuclear material and bring it into this country.Well, there are only so many things that prevent al Qaeda from doing that. It's not their lack of motivation or will. Osama bin Laden has already talked about wanting an American Hiroshima. The obstacles are getting the materiel, fashioning the bomb, and getting it into the country. Getting the materiel, unfortunately, is not very difficult, given the plentiful amounts of highly enriched uranium in the former Soviet Union.Building a bomb is not that difficult because the technology is now decades old. Getting into the country, unfortunately, is not very difficult. That's something this bill seeks to address by deploying radiation-detector portal technologies; and more than just deploying them, as essential as that is, doing the analysis to find out which of the portal technologies will be most effective in keeping a nuclear or radiological weapon out of the country. These are the kinds of investments that are being delayed, stalled, run down by a party that has run our Nation's finances into the ground in the last 6 years, that is complaining about an earmark process better than anything they proposed. We need to move this bill forward. My friends in the minority don't have the credibility on this issue. They may have had it at some point, but they lost it in the last 6 years. This is not the way to retrieve it.We need to move this bill forward. Now is the time to do it. We need to implement these reforms to improve our safeguards against nuclear material getting into this country. We need to ensure that our cargo is protected.We need to ensure that any number of investments that are made in interoperable communications equipment and our firefighters and our police officers are made, and they are made now. I urge this bill move forward. I urge the delay come to an end.
05.23.07	05.23.07 House Resolution of Disapproval in Attorney General Gonzales Gains Quick Support Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Artur Davis (D-AL) announced that a resolution they introduced Monday, expressing no confidence in the performance of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and urging the President to request his resignation, has quickly gained support, with over a hundred Members signing on as cosponsors in just two days. Reps. Schiff and Davis, both former federal prosecutors, drafted the resolution in response to the failures of Attorney General Gonzales to adequately and properly manage the Department of Justice. “The extraordinary support for this House resolution so soon after introduction reflects an emerging consensus in Congress and across the country: Mr. Gonzales should step down,” said Rep. Schiff. “The Justice Department needs a strong and independent voice, and someone of unimpeachable credibility. We must reluctantly conclude that the current Attorney General does not fit the bill.”“I am encouraged that a steadily rising number of our colleagues want the House to assert itself in this debate, and I am pleased that they recognize that the institutional crisis at the Department of Justice demands a no confidence resolution,” said Rep. Davis.At the close of yesterday's business, the measure had 108 cosponsors. The text of the resolution is attached.
05.21.07	05.21.07 Schiff, Davis Introduce Resolution Expressing No Confidence in Attorney General Alberto Gonzales Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Artur Davis (D-AL) introduced a resolution expressing no confidence in the performance of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and urging the President to request his resignation. Reps. Schiff and Davis, both former federal prosecutors, drafted the resolution in response to failures of Attorney General Gonzales to adequately and properly manage the Department of Justice. Recent Congressional testimony and news reports have chronicled Attorney General Gonzales’ inappropriate handling of the firings of U.S. Attorneys, inconsistent statements and testimony on key matters, and lack of appropriate independence from the White House that has seriously called into question his ability to administer justice in a fair, impartial and nonpartisan manner. “I have been deeply disappointed in Mr. Gonzales mismanagement of the Justice Department, his conflicting statements and testimony, and the low regard he seems to have for the professionals in his charge. America needs an Attorney General who acts in an impartial, judicious and nonpartisan fashion, and who places the interests of justice above all else. Regrettably, I do not feel Mr. Gonzales fits the bill," said Rep. Schiff. “The Department is broken, and it is clear to me that he is not the one to fix it.”“Congressman Schiff and I firmly believe that the institutional integrity of the Department of Justice has been substantially weakened by attorney general Gonzales’ leadership of that department,” said Congressman Davis. “The termination of United States attorneys for crassly political motives is the latest and most acute example of a pattern of unacceptable leadership A Congressional vote of no confidence would send an unmistakable signal that a change is vital at the Department of Justice.”
05.18.07	05.18.07 Federal Study Called for by Schiff Reveals Chromium 6 in Drinking Water can Cause Cancer Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff announced the release of a draft report of a federal cancer study of the health effects of ingesting chromium 6. In 2001, Rep. Schiff spearheaded a California delegation-wide effort to commission the study by the National Institutes of Health’s National Toxicology Program. The two year study found that high doses of chromium 6 in drinking water cause cancer in lab rodents. “This study provides us with valuable information on the serious health risks associated with chromium 6 in drinking water,” said Schiff. “It offers definitive evidence that chromium 6 contaminated drinking water can cause cancer and highlights the need to ensure that our federal drinking water standards are up to date to keep Americans healthy and safe.” Congressman Schiff cautioned that the doses of chromium 6 used in the study far exceeded the amounts found in drinking water. Nonetheless, this is the first extensive study of chromium 6 in drinking water, and it shows that chromium 6 may pose a real health risk. The link between chromium 6 and cancer garnered national attention after the release of the movie “Erin Brockovich” in 2000. Congressman Schiff has long worked to keep chromium 6 out of drinking water, dating back to his work in the California State Senate. As a State Senator, he sponsored a bill requiring the California Department of Health Services to prepare a report on the amount of chromium 6 in the San Fernando Valley aquifer and the danger it poses to residents. As a U.S. Congressman, he secured more than a million and a half dollars to develop technology capable of removing heavy metals such as chromium 6 from drinking water in Glendale. He has also written to the EPA Administrator asking the EPA to determine whether a new, lower national public health standard is needed for chromium in drinking water. The national public standard is 100 parts per billion (ppb) of total chromium; California has established a standard of 50 ppb, and some health experts believe 2.5 ppb levels of chromium 6 are necessary to further protect public health.
05.17.07	05.17.07 International Anti-Piracy Caucus Unveils "2007 International Piracy Watch List" Washington, D.C.: At a press conference today the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which is chaired by Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Gordon Smith (R-OR), and Congressmen Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), unveiled the “2007 International Piracy Watch List”. In an effort to combat international copyright piracy by calling attention to countries where piracy has reached alarming levels the Caucus announced they will closely monitor the serious problems of copyright piracy in the following five countries: China, Russia, Mexico, Canada, and Malaysia.The advent of digital technology holds the promise of a golden age for movies, music, video games and other forms of entertainment. More new devices for watching, listening to, recording, sharing and saving music and movies have emerged in the last decade than in the previous 100 years. And these technologies are a key to American economic growth: indeed, the combined copyright industries – movies, home video and television programming, music, books, video games and software – generate more revenues than any other single manufacturing sector, including automobiles and auto parts, aircraft and agriculture. They are responsible for more than five percent of the nation’s GDP. The film industry alone has a surplus balance of trade with every country in the world. Disturbingly, however, an explosion in piracy and a diminution in copyright protection have accompanied these exciting new advances in entertainment technology. Organized crime has become heavily involved in foreign DVD and CD piracy. Criminals are using the same formidable distribution network and resources that were developed for drug trafficking and arms smuggling. The result, in these and other countries, is a virtual evisceration of the legitimate market for American entertainment.“On an individual level, copyright infringement is nothing less than high-tech shoplifting,” said Congressman Schiff. “In the aggregate, it can destroy whole industries. There is no difference between stealing a DVD from a store and selling a pirated CD on the street or uploading it to the Internet. The countries on this list are not doing enough to stop thieves from robbing American industry, and this has to change. We must take action to ensure these countries are forced to take piracy seriously – American jobs depend on it.”“When somebody breaks into your home and takes your belongings, we call it burglary. When somebody holds you up on the street and takes your wallet, we call it robbery. And, when somebody steals your idea and creation, we call it theft – plain and simple,” said Senator Biden. “Unfortunately – not all countries see it that way and theft of U.S. intellectual property is all too commonplace, which costs the U.S. economy billions of dollars each year and threatens the creative mind. And with new digital and recording technologies coming out at warp speed, it will only get worse unless we step up our pressure on the offending countries.” America is the largest creator, producer, and exporter of copyrighted material. Industry estimates that global piracy costs U.S. firms $18 billion in lost sales annually.“American innovation is one of our strongest advantages,” Senator Smith said. “Stopping the hemorrhage of U.S. revenue is critical to successful economic relationships with other countries. If Russia and China want to move their economies forward, they too should crack down on intellectual property theft.”The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus intends to focus on copyright piracy problems in China and Russia. These two countries stand out because of the scope and depth of their piracy problems, which cost the U.S. copyright industries and the millions of Americans who work in these companies billions of dollars and because piracy in these countries is largely the result of a lack of political will to confront the problem. Congressman Goodlatte said, “The U.S. is far and away the world's largest producer and exporter of the creative works that entertain, inform and educate the world. In addition, the contribution of the American copyright industry to the strength of the overall American economy is significant. A vibrant sector of the U.S. economy is at tremendous risk due to widespread piracy of U.S.-made movies, music, software, videogames, books, and other creative works. We must work with our international trade partners to secure the enactment of strong copyright laws and the vigilant enforcement of those laws. ”The Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, which was formed in 2003 by Senators Smith and Biden and Representatives Schiff and Goodlatte, is made up of 70 members of Congress. The goal of the Caucus is to provide briefings for Congressional delegations traveling to countries with significant piracy problems, staff and member briefings and forums on international intellectual property protection and piracy, demonstrations of new technologies and products designed to improve consumers’ entertainment experiences and to reduce piracy and to work closely with the committees of jurisdiction in the House and Senate on related hearings and legislation.
05.14.07	05.14.07 Schiff, Chabot Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Combat Computer Crimes and Ensure Data Security Today, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Steve Chabot (R-OH) introduced the Cyber-Security Enhancement Act. The bipartisan bill will help take strong steps to combat cyber crime and protect data security. In an era of increasingly sophisticated computer technology, this measure would provide better data security protections for both individuals and businesses and would give law enforcement the tools they need to successfully track and prosecute cyber criminals. “Criminals are increasingly using new technologies to prey upon their victims,” Schiff said. “As they adapt to these new opportunities to defraud consumers, we must develop better ways to track down the perpetrators and put them away. This legislation will help protect American consumers and businesses from the costly effects of cyber crime and identity theft.” “High tech cyber-criminals are taking advantage of significant gaps in federal criminal statutes,” said Chabot. “We must modernize our laws to reflect the rapid technological advancements that make it relatively easy to hijack control of computers, steal personal identities and commit computer fraud.” The Cyber-Security Enhancement Act would:Strengthen existing law by making it a crime to access the personal information of individuals without permission; Would update RICO predicate offenses to give US law enforcement the legal ability to investigate and prosecute organized crime syndicates; Call for stricter penalties for those who are found guilty of computer crimes; Provide additional federal funding to the Secret Service, FBI, and Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute cyber crimes; and Expand the scope of cyber crime offenses to make it easier to catch and prosecute cyber criminals.
05.11.07	05.11.07 House Passes Schiff/Flake Amendment to Prevent Warrantless Eavesdropping on Americans Washington, DC – Early this morning, the House passed a bipartisan amendment authored by Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), a member of the House Judiciary Committee and House Select Intelligence Oversight Panel, and Rep. Jeff Flake that reiterates that the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA) continues to be the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance for the purpose of gathering foreign intelligence information may be conducted. The amendment also makes clear that only an explicit change in the law can provide an exception to FISA. The amendment was included as part of the Intelligence Authorization Act (H.R. 2082), which later passed the House with bipartisan support. “Electronic surveillance of those seeking to harm our country must be targeted and aggressive. It must also be constitutional and respect the privacy of law-abiding Americans,” Schiff said. “When Congress said the Administration must get court approval for domestic surveillance, we meant it. Today, Congress reaffirmed that basic protection.” “Many of us in Congress have tried to update and improve FISA,” said Flake. “However, until we codify those changes into law, FISA must be respected.”Reps. Schiff and Flake have teamed up on numerous legislative efforts addressing FISA since the President’s Terrorist Surveillance Program (TSP) was revealed in late 2005. On the first day of the 110th Congress, they reintroduced the NSA Oversight Act (H.R.11), which would modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to respond to changes in technology and new threats, but would retain court supervision over domestic electronic surveillance. They also offered several measures dealing with domestic surveillance last year including one that would have cut funding to any program that conducted domestic surveillance outside of FISA. However, the amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill was defeated in a close vote, with 23 Republicans supporting the measure. In 2005, Reps. Schiff and Flake worked together to secure passage of an amendment to the Patriot Act to provide additional safeguards for library and bookstore records.
05.10.07	05.10.07 Schiff Votes to Begin Withdrawal of Combat Forces From Iraq Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Adam Schiff voted in favor of a bill (H.R. 2237) that would end America's combat presence in Iraq and move to a containment strategy. The measure would require the withdrawal of combat forces from Iraq to begin within 90 days of enactment and be completed 180 days thereafter. The bill explicitly provides for the continued presence of U.S. military personnel to safeguard U.S. diplomats, to continue training Iraqi troops and for targeted operations against al Qaeda and other terrorists. The bill was sponsored by Rep. Jim McGovern, (D-MA) and was voted down by a vote of 171-255.Following the vote, Rep. Schiff stated, “While the Iraqi government dithers -- on reconciliation, division of oil revenues, reforming de-Baathification, and a hundred other matters -- American troops are dying. We did not intend to become policemen in an Iraqi civil war, but that is tragically what we have become. It is time to move to a containment and counter-terrorism strategy in Iraq, and this bill sends a strong message that a major change of course is overdue.”
05.09.07	05.09.07 Schiff Introduces Legislation To Safeguard Nuclear Weapons Material Washington, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) today introduced bipartisan legislation, the Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act, to bolster efforts to deter and prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of terrorists. The bill, cosponsored by Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX), would establish nuclear trafficking as a crime against humanity, make it easier to prosecute international nuclear traffickers in U.S courts, and strengthen penalties for trafficking nuclear material. “There are large stockpiles of nuclear material that remain poorly secured,” said Rep. Schiff. “These stockpiles pose a grave threat to the United States and securing them is an urgent priority. We must make every possible effort to stop this deadly trade, and the first step is to establish a global understanding that nuclear trafficking is one of the most serious international crimes – a crime against humanity. By stigmatizing this conduct around the world, in conjunction with current enforcement efforts through the Proliferation Security Initiative, we can move towards the eradication of nuclear trafficking.” The Ending Nuclear Trafficking Act would:Declare that the transfer of nuclear weapons, materials or technology to be used for terrorist purposes is a crime against humanity punishable under U.S. law; Establish jurisdiction for U.S. courts to prosecute those who traffic in nuclear weapons, materials or technology anywhere in the world when the recipient is a terrorist who has explicitly targeted the United States, or any terrorist where there is a connection to U.S. citizens, companies, financing, or material support; andDirect our permanent representative to the U.N. to seek support from other nations for establishing illicit nuclear trafficking as a crime against humanity punishable in own their countries and by international tribunals. “The transfer of nuclear weapons, materials, or technology to terrorists puts the world on the razor's edge of a crime of unimaginable dimensions,” Schiff said. In March 2003, the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University released a report describing a scenario in which a 10-kiloton nuclear bomb is smuggled into Manhattan and detonated. The report showed that such an attack would result in the loss of 500,000 lives and $1 trillion in direct economic damage.Congressman Schiff has been a leading voice in Congress on efforts to secure vulnerable stockpiles of weapons materials. In April 2004, Rep. Schiff introduced H.R. 4212 which would have created a Presidential Task Force within the Department of Energy to focus on an immediate strategy to secure nuclear material around the world. In May 2003, he introduced legislation (H.R. 2063) to expand the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction (CTR) program to include countries outside the former Soviet Union, such as Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Iran and Iraq. He also joined Rep. John Spratt (D-SC) in offering an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act in May 2003 to strengthen the United States' efforts to safeguard or destroy weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and related materials around the world.
05.03.07	05.03.07 Protecting Journalists on World Press Freedom Day These are difficult and dangerous days for reporters around the world. According to the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists, 56 journalists were killed in the line of duty in 2006, most of whom were murdered to silence or punish them. The toll was 9 more than the 47 journalists killed in 2005, just the year before, and well above average for the last 2 decades of reporting. Another 30 reporters were killed, but law enforcement authorities cannot confirm that their deaths were the result of their work.Outright murder is not the only tool that the authorities use to silence reporters. As of December 1, 2006, 134 journalists were imprisoned around the world as a consequence of their work. Of these, more than 100 were held by only five countries: China, Cuba, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Burma.These countries which imprison journalists for straying beyond the bounds of official censorship are not the most dangerous for journalists, however. Since 1992, more journalists have been killed in Iraq, Algeria, Russia, Colombia and the Philippinesthan anywhere else.We are all familiar with the dangers inherent in covering war and insurgencies, and many of those killed in Iraq, Algeria and Colombia have died covering conflicts in these countries. In the Philippines, the murder of journalists has been part of a larger campaign against perceived left-wing activists.But it is Russia, where more than 20 journalists have been murdered in 6 years since Vladimir Putin succeeded Boris Yeltsin, that we wish to address this evening.All alone among the top five countries where journalists are murdered, the deaths of journalists in Russia seem to be part of a concerted effort to silence the few remaining journalists who refuse to tow the Kremlin line. China, Cuba and others have been rightly condemned for imprisoning journalists who raised the ire of their governments. Moscowseems to have taken a different tack. Instead of censoring jailing journalists it doesn't like, the Kremlin seems to look the other way when they turn up dead.There is no direct evidence tying the Putin government to the murder of journalists in Russia, but there is a wealth of circumstantial evidence pointing to at least acquiescence in the death of journalists.The number of journalists killed, the circumstances of their deaths, the stories they were working on, and perhaps most telling, the fact that not one of the crimes has been successfully prosecuted involving the murder of these journalists in Russia, is indicative of a deliberate decision not to dig too deeply into these murders. Others hint at something darker. In an editorial the Washington Post recently stated, “The instances of violence against journalists in Mr. Putin's Russiaand of the brutal elimination of his critics both at home and abroad have become so common that it is impossible to explain them all as coincidences.”The evolution of Russian journalism from its dismal Soviet past to its current role as the Kremlin's sycophant is distressing. During the latter part of the 1980s, Mikhail Gorbachev loosened many of the Soviet era's restrictions on the press and the Soviet media became an important player in Gorbachev's policy of Glasnost. Under Gorbachev, journalists began to explore the full range of issues that had remained hidden for so long by the Soviet Government, the Afghan war, the gulags, the miserable performance of the Soviet economy and the endemic corruption of Soviet society were laid bare. There is little doubt that the Soviet media's revelations were a catalyst in the disintegration of the Soviet Union.In the immediate post-Soviet era, the Russian press foundered as the economy collapsed, but the first Chechen war, which lasted from 1994 to 1996, revitalized Russian journalism. Television was especially powerful, and its coverage of the war turned millions of Russians against the conflict. In many respects, this period was the high watermark for an independent press in Russia.But even as NTV and other television outlets helped to shape domestic opposition to the Chechen war, Russian journalism was shedding its independence. As Michael Specter wrote in the New Yorker about this period in Russia, “The moral tone of the journalist's world began to shift from idealistic to mercenary. The practice of writing biased news articles for money became routine, even at the best papers. Restaurant owners, businessmen and public officials knew that, for the right price, it would bring them favorable coverage almost anywhere.”This distortion of the journalistic creed of objectivity and neutrality was exacerbated in 1996 when President Yeltsin, whose support and opinion polls had fallen into the low single digits, faced off against Communist Gennady Zyuganov in the Russian presidential election. Knowing that without third-party intervention Yeltsin was doomed and that Zyuganov would reimpose control over the media, Russia's media elite intervened.Over the course of the campaign, NTV and other media outlets collectively swayed Russian public opinion and Yeltsin ended up winning. But the damage was done. As a former anchor for NTV told the New Yorker's Michael Specter, the election “put a poisoned seed into the soil, and even if we did not see why, the authorities understood at once mass media could very easily be manipulated to achieve any goal. Whether the Kremlin needed to raise the rating of a president or bring down an opponent or conduct an operation to destroy a businessman, the media could do the job.” Once the Kremlin understood it could use journalists as instruments of its will and saw that journalists would go along, everything that happened in the Putin era was, sadly, quite logical. The ascension of Vladimir Putin to the Russian presidency cemented the link between Russia's rulers and the press. Even without government censorship, the press has become a passive booster of the president's efforts to centralize authority and to restore Russia to its former status as a great power. To that end, the Russian media has ignored the corruption and cronyism that has become institutionalized in Russiasince the Yeltsin period, and has largely been uncritical of the prosecution of the second Chechnyan war which has raged for nearly 8 years.But even as the vast majority of their colleagues censor themselves and follow the Kremlin line, a few brave journalists have dared to investigate, to question, and criticize. Journalistic independence in Russiais dangerous. And in a few minutes we will introduce you to some of the journalists whose brave voices have been stilled.When my colleague arrives back on the floor, Mike Pence, I will introduce him. He has been a leading voice in the House on human rights and serves as the other co-chair of our Congressional Caucus For Freedom of the Press. But this evening I will start in highlighting the Russian journalists who have lost their lives by talking about Ivan Safronov, who died in early March of this year after falling from a fifth floor stairwell window in his apartment building in Moscow.He was a correspondent at Kommersant, and is the most recent journalist in Russiato die under a cloud of suspicion. Russian officials quickly called his death a suicide. However, according to colleagues of his at Kommersant, he had a very happy family life and had no motive to commit suicide. It was not until Kommersant and some other news media suggested foul play that the authorities agreed to investigate the circumstances of Mr. Safronov's death.According to his editors, Mr. Safronov, a military affairs writer, was working on a story about Russian plans to sell weapons to Iran and Syria via Belarus. Mr. Safronov had been a colonel in the Russia Space Forces prior to reporting for Kommersant. He frequently angered authorities with his critical reporting and was repeatedly questioned by Federal authorities which suspected him of divulging state secrets. One such report that Mr. Safronov filed that angered officials revealed the third consecutive launch failure of a new Bulava intercontinental ballistic missile. This had been a pet project of President Putin's which was supposed to show the world Russia's nuclear strength.Strangely enough, no charges were ever brought up against Mr. Safronov. He was well aware that he was reporting on a sensitive issue and was very careful in his work always to have a way to prove he was not divulging state secrets. He was known for making meticulous notes and conducting thorough research so he could always prove he got his information from known sources. It would seem that sadly Mr. Safronov's reporting was too good and the only way to silence him was by eliminating him. Mr. Safronov is not on either of the lists of journalists that we have tonight to highlight because his death is so recent. But his tragic death is another example of the lack of progress being made to protect journalists in Russia.Before I begin highlighting 13 of the journalists on the committee to protect journalists of the most recently murdered journalists in Russia, I would like to introduce my colleague from Indiana, Mike Pence, who is one of the co-chairs of the caucus and does a superb job advocating for the rights of the media.
04.27.07	04.27.07 Commemorating the Armenian Genocide Mr. Speaker, it has been nearly 4 years since President Bush ordered American military forces into Iraq with the intention of toppling the government of Saddam Hussein. Now, after more than 3,100 American troops have been lost and this Nation has spent in excess of $365 billion, we find ourselves at a crossroads. Do we endorse the President's decision to escalate the conflict, or do we, as a coequal branch of government, exercise our prerogative to force a change in course?In October of 2002 I voted for the resolution authorizing the use of military force in Iraq based on three assumptions: First, that the intelligence community correctly assessed that Iraq had active stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons and was pursuing a nuclear bomb; second, that President Bush would exhaust all diplomatic efforts to resolve the international community's standoff with Iraq over its weapons programs; and, third, that if the President determined that a resort to force was necessary the prosecution of the war and its aftermath would be competently managed by the President and his administration.Each of these assumptions proved to be wrong. Iraq had no weapons of mass destruction and no nuclear program; President Bush did not exhaust all diplomatic efforts; and perhaps most tragically, his administration made terrible, costly and repeated blunders in its conduct of the war.I have been to Iraq three times to visit our troops and to thank them for their service and their sacrifice. I have met the families of five soldiers and marines from my district who have been lost in Iraq. I have visited with our wounded here and overseas.Words cannot convey the admiration that I have for the magnificent job that these men and women, many of them still in their late teens and early twenties, are doing on our behalf in Iraq. Whatever failings there have been in the prosecution of this war by the administration, our troops have performed magnificently in wretched conditions and against an often unseen enemy that has targeted U.S. military and Iraqi citizens without discrimination.We must and we will continue to ensure that they have the resources they need to do their jobs and to come home safely, and once they are home, we will provide them with the care and benefits that they have paid for in blood.Unlike some of my friends in the minority, I have never construed support for the troops to require a blind, unquestioning and slavish devotion to the Executive, even when the Executive is wrong, even when its policies will not achieve the desired result, and even when those very policies place our troops unnecessarily and unproductively at greater risk. On the contrary, an engaged Congress is essential to meaningful support for the troops.On many occasions here on the House floor, in committee and in meetings with senior officials, I have pressed for accountability, oversight and a more vigorous commitment to force protection. In October 2003, I voted against the $87 billion Iraq supplemental because I believed that it shortchanged security for our troops and allocated too much for no-bid contracts.Now, more than 3 years later, our reconstruction efforts in Iraq are a disaster and a national disgrace. Too many of our troops still ride into battle in vehicles that are not properly protected against IEDs and other weapons.Last June I voted against the administration's “stay the course” resolution that sought to conflate the war in Iraq with the entire struggle against al Qaeda, even as it failed to acknowledge that our strategy to stabilize the country was not working and that its country was slipping into civil war.Now, against the advice of Congress, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, most military experts and the American people, President Bush has determined that victory in Iraq can be achieved by deploying 21,000 additional combat troops to Baghdad and its environs.Regrettably, I cannot see how this escalation can be successful. Instead, I believe it will further the cycle of dependency that has allowed Iraq's Shiite dominated government to avoid making compromises with Sunnis and to avoid building capable security forces. It will increase the strain on our military at a time when the Army and Marines are already stretched to the breaking point. And, most of all, it will deepen our military commitment to Iraq at a time when there is a national consensus that we should be taking steps to reduce our combat role and reinvigorate the diplomatic process.The administration and the minority charge that those who do not support the escalation have no plan and that this is the only possible path to success. I disagree. The Iraq Study Group laid out a strategy that centered around a reduced American combat presence in Iraq, increased efforts to train Iraqi forces, increased pressures on the Iraqis to make compromises and a regional conference to hammer out a common approach to Iraq.This resolution is a clear message to the President that his approach has lost the confidence of this House and we need a change of direction. I hope he chooses to take our counsel. But he should be aware that the days of a rubber-stamp Congress are over, and we are willing to take other steps to insist on charting a new course in Iraq.
04.24.07	04.24.07 Schiff Cosponsors the Paycheck Fairness Act on Equal Pay Day Washington, D.C. – Today, on Equal Pay Day, Representative Adam Schiff announced that he has cosponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act (H.R. 1338), which aims to strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963. Both bills work to ensure that there is truly equal pay for equal work in this country. The Paycheck Fairness Act would provide more effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. “Equal pay is not just a women’s issue, it’s a family issue,” said Schiff. “The wage gap hurts all family members because it lowers family income that pays for essentials – groceries, doctors’ visits, and child care. When women earn more, an entire family benefits. By eradicating unfair treatment in the labor market, we can help families gain the resources they need to ensure that their children have access to a better future in the 21st century.”According to the Census Bureau in 2006, women still earn only about 77 percent as much as men do. Women of color are worse off - African American women make 66 cents on the dollar compared to the highest earners (white men), while Hispanic women make only 55 cents. According to the National Committee on Pay Equity, working women stand to lose $250,000 over the course of their career because of unequal pay practices.The issue of equal pay for women was highlighted when President John Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963. However, since the Equal Pay Act was signed into law, the wage gap between men and women has only been closing at a slow rate. In 1963, women who worked full-time, year-round made 59 cents on average for every dollar earned by men. In 2006, women earned 77 cents to the dollar. That means that the wage gap has narrowed by less than half a cent per year.The Paycheck Fairness Act would take meaningful steps to empower women to negotiate for equal pay, to create strong incentives for employers to follow the law, and to strengthen federal outreach and enforcement efforts. Specifically, the bill would:Require the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to work with employers to eliminate pay disparities; Prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who share salary information with their co-workers; Allow women to sue for punitive damages in addition to compensatory damages now available under the Equal Pay Act;Require the Department of Labor to continue collecting and disseminating information about women workers; and Create a new grant program to help strengthen the negotiation skills of girls and women.
04.17.07	04.17.07 Schiff Calls On Ethiopian and Rwandan Presidents to Halt Persecution of Female Journalists Washington, DC – Representative Adam Schiff, Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, today sent two bipartisan letters to the Presidents of Ethiopia and Rwanda calling on them halt the persecution of these female journalists in their countries and to ensure the right of a free press.“These women must be freed or given a fair trial if these countries want to respected members of the international community,” said Schiff. “A free and open press is an essential ingredient to a healthy democracy and both of these Presidents need to take the steps necessary to guarantee the right of free speech.”The letter to Ethiopian President Wolde-Giorgis highlights the case of Serkalem Fassil, publisher of the newspapers Menelik, Asqual, and Satenaw. Mrs. Fassil, along with her husband Eskinder Nega, was arrested in November 2005. Mrs. Fassil was pregnant at the time of her arrest and has since been held in the Kaliti prison where she gave birth and is now raising her son. Mrs. Fassil has been charged with “trying to overthrow the constitutional order” and “genocide” and faces a possible death sentence, yet it is reported that she was arrested for nothing more than reporting on the widespread protests surrounding the legislative elections in May of 2005.The letter to Rwandan President Kagame voices concerns regarding Tatiana Mukakibibi, a producer and host of various shows on Radio Rwanda. Ms. Mukakibibi has been imprisoned since October 1996 and has yet to be tried for the crimes for which she is accused. It appears that she is being held because of her work with André Sibomana, former editor of Rwanda's oldest newspaper Kinyamateka. Reports state that she is being held in extremely harsh conditions in Ntenyo, Gitarama and has been accused of murder yet has not stood trial. The Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press aims to raise awareness surrounding international free press issues by drafting letters to heads of state, hosting debates on the House Floor, and convening events with press freedom experts.
03.29.07	03.29.07 Schiff Attends Capitol Ceremony to Honor Tuskegee Airmen Washington, D.C. – This week, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) attended a special ceremony in the Rotunda of the United States Capitol where the Tuskegee Airmen were honored for their service and bravery in World War II. At the ceremony, the Tuskegee Airmen were awarded Congress’s highest civilian honor, the Congressional Gold Medal. O. Oliver Goodall of Altadena served as a pilot from 1942 to 1947 and was awarded a replica Congressional Gold Medal at this week’s Capitol ceremony. “These men are extraordinary, and this recognition is long overdue and well deserved,” Schiff said. “It was a thrill and an honor to meet so many of these American heroes. I was especially excited and proud to see Mr. Goodall walk in the procession into the Capitol. I have enjoyed spending time with him, and he is truly remarkable. We as a nation owe Mr. Goodall and his colleagues a debt of gratitude, and this week’s recognition was fitting.” The Tuskegee Airmen were an all-black unit of World War II pilots and crew who were mostly trained at Tuskegee Army Air Field (TAAF) in Tuskegee, Alabama. The Tuskegee Airmen included pilots, navigators, bombardiers, maintenance and support staff, instructors, and all the personnel who kept the planes in the air. From 1942 to 1947, 994 pilots graduated from TAAF and received commissions and pilot’s wings. About 450 of these pilots flew in combat missions in the war, escorting bombers throughout Europe and North Africa. The Tuskegee unit was credited with shooting down 111 German planes and is thought to be the only fighter unit to have never lost a bomber. Mr. Goodall flew a P-47 and was stationed in Kentucky, Indiana, and South Carolina. He now serves as the public relations officer for the Los Angeles Chapter of the Tuskegee Airmen Inc. and still flies today. Following the ceremony in the Capitol, he joined Rep. Schiff on his local television show, Capitol Report, which will air on local public access television in the district soon. “It was a very interesting and a moving ceremony,” said Mr. Goodall. “To see and hear the speakers gave me hope for the future. I was proud of the Representatives and Senators who voted for the recognition without a naysayer in the bunch.”
03.27.07	03.27.07 Schiff Offers Legislation to Highlight Human Trafficking Abuses Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff introduced a bipartisan resolution that would express Congress’s commitment to raising awareness about human trafficking and doing more to end the abhorrent practice. It is estimated that 600,000 to 800,000 men, women and children are trafficked across international borders each year. Of these, approximately 80 percent are women and girls, and up to 50 percent are minors. This resolution was authored to bring about nationwide acknowledgment and awareness of this pernicious problem.“Trafficking people is a form of modern-day slavery that is occurring with alarming frequency around the world,” said Schiff. “Congress needs to take more aggressive action to end this human tragedy that deprives thousands of the most basic human right – freedom.” The U.S. is not immune to the problem of human trafficking. According to the Department of State, there may be as many as 100,000 to 200,000 people in the U.S. today working as modern slaves in homes, sweatshops, brothels, agricultural fields, construction projects and restaurants. It is estimated that of these, 15,000 to 100,000 are women and girls. Globally, the International Labor Organization (ILO) estimates that there are 12.3 million people in forced labor, bonded labor, forced child labor, and sexual servitude at any given time. Human trafficking not only poses serious human rights issues but also represents a serious international security risk. Human trafficking fuels organized crime through the tremendous profits it generates, an estimated $9.5 billion in annual revenue according to the F.B.I.
03.21.07	03.21.07 Schiff Presses Secretary of State Rice on Armenian Genocide Recognition Washington, D.C. – Today, at an Appropriations hearing before the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) pressed Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on her opposition to recognizing the Armenian Genocide carried out by the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1923. In his pointed questioning, Schiff repeatedly asked the Secretary of State if she believed that the murder of 1.5 million Armenians could be characterized as anything other than a genocide. The Secretary did not directly respond. “I was disappointed that Secretary of State Rice was unwilling to acknowledge the plain facts of the Armenian Genocide,” said Schiff. “We cannot maintain the moral force we need to take action against the genocide going on in Darfur, if the Administration continues to equivocate about the genocide against the Armenians.”Rep. Schiff was recently appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress and is a member of its Commerce, Justice, and Science Subcommittee, the State Department and Foreign Operations Subcommittee, and the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. He also serves on the House Judiciary Committee and its Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.The exchange between Rep. Schiff and Secretary Rice follows.REP. ADAM SCHIFF: Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Secretary, welcome. About a week or so ago, Madam Secretary, you and Secretary Gates sent a letter to some of the chairs of committees here on the Hill opposing recognition of the Armenian genocide. This concerned me for a number of reasons, not the least of which that I don't see how we can have the moral authority that we need to condemn the genocide going in Darfur if we're unwilling to recognize other genocides that have taken place, if we're unwilling to recognize the first genocide of the last century, where 1.5 million people losttheir lives.We're all well aware of how the Turkish lobby and Turkey has, either implicitly or explicitly, threatened because it doesn't want the genocide recognized and its own difficulty in coming to grips with that chapter of Ottoman history. So I'm not going to ask you about that, but I do want to ask you, is there any -- do you have any doubt, in your mind, that the murder of 1.5 million Armenians between 1915 and 1923 constituted genocide? Is there any doubt about that, in your mind? SECRETARY OF STATE CONDOLEEZZA RICE: Congressman, I think that these historical circumstances require a very detailed and sober look from historians and what we've encouraged the Turks and the Armenians to do is to have joint historical commissions that can look at this, to have efforts to examine their past and, in examining their past, to get over their past. But I will tell you, Congressman, I don't think that it helps that process of reconciliation for the United States to enter this debate at that level. I just don't think it's helpful. SCHIFF: Madam Secretary, your comments, you think that there should be some kind of debate or discussion about the genocide suggests that you have a question about whether genocide occurred. Is that correct? RICE: Congressman, I believe that this is something that Turks and Armenians are best to address through their own processes of coming to terms with their history. Lots of people have had to come to terms with their history... SCHIFF: Yes, and, Madam Secretary, we have to come to grips with our own history. RICE: Yes. SCHIFF: And we did. RICE: I personally am well aware of that. SCHIFF: But, Madam Secretary, you come out of academia. RICE: Yes. SCHIFF: Is there any historic debate outside of Turkey? Is there any reputable historian you're aware of that takes issue with the fact that the murder of 1.5 million Armenians constituted genocide? RICE: Congressman, I come out of academia, but I'm secretary of state now and I think that the best way to have this proceed is for the United States not to be in the position of making this judgment, but rather for the Turks and the Armenians to come to their own terms about this. Lots of people are coming to terms with their history in Asia, in Europe people have had to come to terms with their own history and that's... SCHIFF: Madam Secretary, we have no reluctance to recognize genocide in Darfur. We have no reluctance to talk about the Cambodian genocide or the Rwandan genocide or the Holocaust. Why is it only this genocide? Is it because Turkey is a strong ally? Is that an ethical and moral reason to ignore the murder of 1.5 million people? Why is it we don't say, "Let's relegate the Holocaust to historians" or "relegate the Cambodian genocide or Rwandan genocide ?" Why is it only this genocide that we should let the Turks acknowledge or not acknowledge? And, Madam Secretary, Hrant Dink, who was murdered outside of his office, is not a testimony to Turkish progress. The fact that Turkey brought a Nobel-winning author up on charges of insulting Turkishness because he talked about the murder of the Armenians doesn't show great efforts of reconciliation of Turkey. Why is it only this genocide we're incapable of recognizing? RICE: Congressman, we have recognized and the president recognizes every year in a resolution that he himself issues the historical circumstances and the tragedy that befell the Armenian people at that time. We do recognize it. But I don't -- if you'll just allow me. I do not see that this situation is going to get better in the sense that it allows Turks and Armenians to move on to deal with their present unless we are able to let them deal with their past as to the murder that you... SCHIFF: Madam Secretary, because I'm going to run out of time. You recognize more than anyone, as a diplomat, the power of words. RICE: Yes. SCHIFF: And I'm sure you supported the recognition of genocide in Darfur, not calling it tragedy, not calling it atrocity, not calling it anything else, but the power and significance of calling it genocide . Why is that less important in the case of the Armenian genocide? RICE: Congressman, the power here is in helping these people to move forward. After the murder that you talked about, Turks went into the streets to embrace Armenians and to say that this is not the way that Turks behave. The foreign minister himself has called into question the issue of arresting people for Turkishness. I do think that there is an evolution that is going on in a Turkey that is democratizing and democratizing before our very eyes and where Turks will be able to deal better with their history. But I do believe that people are better left to try and deal with this themselves if they're going to be able to move forward. We have to ask ourselves, "What is the purpose here," and I think the purpose is to acknowledge, of course, the historic tragedy, but the purpose is also to allow Turks and Armenians to be able to move forward. And, yes, Turkey is a good ally and that is important. But more important is that like many historical tragedies, like many historical circumstances of this kind, people need to come to terms with it and they need to move on. We've done that in our own country. People have done it in Europe. People have done it in Asia and I think... SCHIFF: Madam Secretary... (CROSSTALK) RICE: ... the best to have them move forward together. LOWEY: Thank you, Mr. Schiff.(BREAK)REP. LOWEY: The secretary has agreed to stay for a few more minutes, so if you'll be brief, Mr. Schiff and Ms. Lee.Mr. Schiff.REP. SCHIFF: Thank you, Madame Chair. Just one final comment on the subject we visited earlier, and then I have a question on a different matter. I think rather than urging the Congress to ignore the Armenian genocide or urging us in effect to abide by Turkish Section 301 not to offend or insult Turkishness, I think it's more productive to be urging Turkey to recognize the genocide and also work on the relationship between the U.S. and Turkey so that it can survive our clear statement of the truth.Iran hosts conferences of historians on the Holocaust. I don't think we want to get in the business of encouraging conferences of historians on the undeniable facts of the Armenian genocide.
03.20.07	03.20.07 Schiff Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Prevent Gang Violence Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to halt gang violence. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act (H.R. 1582) would create new criminal gang offenses and require harsher penalties for illegal gang members who are convicted of those crimes, while focusing on providing new resources for community-based programs that seek to prevent future gang activity. Significantly, the bill also includes more than $1 billion in funding for law enforcement, prevention, and intervention programs. Rep. Mary Bono (R-CA) cosponsored the measure in the House and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “As a former federal prosecutor, I have seen firsthand the damage gangs cause in our community,” said Schiff. “This bill takes concrete steps in fighting gang violence by increasing federal support for law enforcement and by cracking down on gang offenders and increasing penalties for those gang members who terrorize our communities. At the same time, and of equal importance, this legislation takes the next step in prevention and intervention efforts in order to protect our children from gang violence.” “My great thanks go to Representatives Schiff and Bono for introducing this important gang legislation in the House of Representatives,” Senator Feinstein said. “This bill provides more than $1 billion of support for prevention programs that aim to keep our children out of criminal street gangs, law enforcement programs that help put an end to the gang violence terrorizing our neighborhoods, and witness protection initiatives.”“As our nation feels the effects of increasing gang violence, the federal government cannot wait any longer to strengthen its own criminal laws and lend this much-needed hand of assistance to the local agencies battling gang violence.”Gov. Schwarzenegger supports the bill, stating, “Gang violence is a problem in communities all over California. We need to have a coordinated approach among federal, state and local governments to work together and eliminate this problem. I support your legislation, The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act of 2007, and appreciate that it would establish new crimes and tougher federal penalties to deter and punish members of illegal street gangs. I also strongly support the federal funding authorized in your bill for suppression, prevention and intervention programs.”According to the Los Angeles Police Department, crime in Los Angeles has decreased for the last five years. However gang-related crime is on the rise. In 2006, gang-related crime increased by 15.7 percent citywide. That translates into 1,046 additional gang-related crimes in 2006 from the previous year. Those crimes include additions in homicides, attempted homicides, felony assaults, and robberies. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act would authorize over $1 billion spread out over five years for enforcement and prevention efforts. Nearly half of the funding would be directed toward the High Intensity Interstate Gang Activity Area (HIIGAA) program. This program facilitates cooperation between local, state and federal law enforcement in identifying, targeting and eliminating violent gangs in areas where gang activity is particularly prevalent. Half of the HIIGAA funding, or $250 million, would be specified for community-based intervention and prevention initiatives focused on at-risk youth. This funding would increase resources for the DOJ, federal prosecutors and FBI agents to help assist in coordinating enforcement efforts. The Gang Abatement and Prevention Act would create harsher penalties for gang related crime by:Creating new criminal gang offenses to prohibit recruitment for street gangs and target gangs who recruit children (up to 10 years in prison, up to 20 years for recruiting a minor, up to 20 years if recruiting from prison);Establishing specific penalties for violent gang crime (up to life imprisonment for murder, kidnapping, aggravated sexual assault or maiming, up to 30 years for any other serious violent felony, up to 20 years for any other violent crime);Creating penalties for violence committed in drug trafficking related offences; andEnacting various other changes to federal criminal code to more effectively deter and punish violence by criminal street gangs and other violent criminals.Rep. Schiff has long fought to end gang violence dating back to his days as a federal prosecutor and State Senator. While serving in the State Senate, he introduced landmark anti-gang legislation, called “The Schiff Cardenas Crime Prevention Act of 2000,” which for the first time invested as much in prevention of crime as in the suppression of crime. This is the second time that Reps. Schiff and Bono have teamed up on gang violence legislation. They introduced similar legislation in the 109th Congress in 2005.
03.09.07	03.09.07 Congressmen Schiff and Flake Troubled By PATRIOT Act Abuse Washington, D.C. – Democratic Congressman Adam Schiff, who represents California’s 29th District, and Republican Congressman Jeff Flake, who represents Arizona’s 6th District, were deeply troubled by reports of abuse of PATRIOT Act powers by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). An audit by the Justice Department found that the FBI improperly used powers afforded to them by the PATRIOT Act to acquire personal information on U.S. citizens. “The abuses of authority we learned of today are alarming and must be addressed,” said Schiff. “It was most disturbing to learn that there were many cases in which federal agents demanded records and made assurances that grand jury subpoenas were forthcoming – when none was later provided or even contemplated. I commend House Judiciary Committee Chairman Conyers for announcing his intention to immediately schedule hearings on this issue so that Congress can probe these abuses and determine what legislative response is necessary.”“Obviously, this news is very troubling,” said Flake. “Congressional action will likely be necessary, but we need to investigate further before we determine an appropriate course.”Reps. Schiff and Flake were the only two members who attended a briefing by the FBI on the details that were the subject of the report released today by the Justice Department's Inspector General. The damaging report found systemic failures in the use of National Security Letters (NSLs) and repeated errors in the FBI's ability to follow the strict guidelines within the Patriot Act.Most disturbingly, the report identifies over 700 occasions in which the FBI circumvented the requirements of national security letter authorities and internal FBI policy by using a tool known as "exigent letters," signed by personnel not authorized to sign NSLs, to immediately obtain information from telecommunications companies. These letters -- requesting information on approximately 3,000 different telephone numbers -- falsely indicated that grand jury subpoenas had been requested and many of these letters were not issued in exigent circumstances.Congressmen Flake and Schiff have introduced the NSA Oversight Act, a bipartisan measure that will modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act to respond to changes in technology and new threats.
03.06.07	03.06.07 Schiff Writes to Attorney General Gonzales Requesting a Status Update on a Report Regarding the State of U.S. Detainees Suspected of Terrorism Washington, D.C. – Late yesterday, Representatives Adam Schiff, Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI), and Subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties Chairman Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) called on United States Attorney General Alberto Gonzales for an update on the status of a report on American citizens and residents detained on suspicion of terrorism. The report is required by a measure that Rep. Schiff authored in the 2005 Department of Justice Reauthorization bill. The report was due to Congress on January 5, 2007. “It is imperative that the Administration inform Congress on the detention of Americans if we are to fulfill our oversight responsibilities,” Schiff said. “The Department of Justice was given ample time to compile this report, and it disturbs me that the Administration has not done so as required by law.”The full text of the letter is below. March 5, 2007The Honorable Alberto R. Gonzales Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Gonzales:We are disappointed to learn that the Department of Justice has not yet submitted its report to Congress regarding the status of U.S. persons or residents detained on suspicion of terrorism. As you know, this report was required by the 2005 Department of Justice Reauthorization bill (Sec. 1176 of Public Law 109-162) and was due on January 5, 2007. Since September 11, 2001, we know of at least two cases where U.S. persons or residents were detained as “enemy combatants” since these cases rose to the attention of the judicial branch. Others have been detained on suspicion of terrorism under the material witness statute. In order for Congress to engage in our oversight responsibilities over the Executive Branch’s prosecution of the war on terrorism, we must understand the breadth and application of the Executive’s detention procedures covering U.S. persons or residents on suspicion of terrorism. In particular, we must understand the standards that were developed by the Department for recommending or determining that a person should be tried as a criminal defendant or should be designated as an “enemy combatant.” For example, we are eager to learn why foreign national Zacarais Moussaoui, the alleged “20th hijacker,” was afforded due process in our U.S. court system while other U.S. citizens were detained as enemy combatants and initially denied access to counsel and the courts. Similarly, we seek to understand how the determination was made to provide individuals captured on the battlefield in Afghanistan, such as John Walker Lindh, with the right to trial in U.S. court, while U.S. citizens captured on U.S. soil were deprived of that right for some time. The Department must also report to Congress on the status of any U.S. persons or residents who are currently detained on suspicion of terrorism. Recent press reports indicate that many of the government's statistics on successful “terrorism” investigations or prosecutions have used inflated numbers – and swept within such designations many cases having no nexus to any terrorism case. This only raises our concern that American citizens may be detained on suspicion of terrorism without the knowledge of the Congress. This is an issue of high priority for us, and we are concerned that the Department has not complied with the statutory reporting requirement. We appreciate your prompt attention to this matter, and we look forward to the Department furnishing this report in an expeditious manner. Sincerely,ADAM B. SCHIFFMember of Congress JOHN CONYERS, JR.Member of CongressJERROLD NADLERMember of Congress
02.23.07	02.23.07 Schiff Meets with Armenian-American and Asian-American Student Leaders to Promote Public Service Washington, D.C. – This week, Representative Adam Schiff hosted two breakfasts with local Armenian-American and Asian-American student leaders to discuss public service. The students were nominated by their school principals to attend a breakfast with Rep. Schiff. At the breakfasts, Rep. Schiff was joined by other public officials and local leaders who talked about public service and discussed ways the students can increase their civic knowledge and participation. The events offered an opportunity for students to network with their peers and engage in discussions with leaders involved in creating positive changes in our communities. “It was great to meet with so many exciting, bright, and dedicated students,” Schiff said. “Some of these students may be running the country one day and it was a good opportunity for them to meet each other and our community leaders. I hope many of these students choose a career in public service -- they have so much to offer.”The events were very well attended with more than 40 Armenian-American and Asian-American student leaders participating in the breakfasts. A wide variety of topics were discussed, from future career paths to college choices to favorite sports teams.These breakfasts are a continuation of a series of meetings that Rep. Schiff is hosting with minority student leaders to promote diversity in public service. He previously hosted meetings with African-American and Latino students. These events are part of Rep. Schiff’s “Kids First” agenda of initiatives to improve the health care, education and safety of our kids.
02.14.07	02.14.07 A Better Way Forward in Iraq Mr. Speaker, it has been nearly 4 years since President Bush ordered American military forces into Iraq with the intention of toppling the government of Saddam Hussein. Now, after more than 3,100 American troops have been lost and this Nation has spent in excess of $365 billion, we find ourselves at a crossroads. Do we endorse the President's decision to escalate the conflict, or do we, as a coequal branch of government, exercise our prerogative to force a change in course?In October of 2002 I voted for the resolution authorizing the use of military force in Iraq based on three assumptions: First, that the intelligence community correctly assessed that Iraq had active stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons and was pursuing a nuclear bomb; second, that President Bush would exhaust all diplomatic efforts to resolve the international community's standoff with Iraq over its weapons programs; and, third, that if the President determined that a resort to force was necessary the prosecution of the war and its aftermath would be competently managed by the President and his administration.Each of these assumptions proved to be wrong. Iraq had no weapons of mass destruction and no nuclear program; President Bush did not exhaust all diplomatic efforts; and perhaps most tragically, his administration made terrible, costly and repeated blunders in its conduct of the war.I have been to Iraq three times to visit our troops and to thank them for their service and their sacrifice. I have met the families of five soldiers and marines from my district who have been lost in Iraq. I have visited with our wounded here and overseas.Words cannot convey the admiration that I have for the magnificent job that these men and women, many of them still in their late teens and early twenties, are doing on our behalf in Iraq. Whatever failings there have been in the prosecution of this war by the administration, our troops have performed magnificently in wretched conditions and against an often unseen enemy that has targeted U.S. military and Iraqi citizens without discrimination.We must and we will continue to ensure that they have the resources they need to do their jobs and to come home safely, and once they are home, we will provide them with the care and benefits that they have paid for in blood.Unlike some of my friends in the minority, I have never construed support for the troops to require a blind, unquestioning and slavish devotion to the Executive, even when the Executive is wrong, even when its policies will not achieve the desired result, and even when those very policies place our troops unnecessarily and unproductively at greater risk. On the contrary, an engaged Congress is essential to meaningful support for the troops.On many occasions here on the House floor, in committee and in meetings with senior officials, I have pressed for accountability, oversight and a more vigorous commitment to force protection. In October 2003, I voted against the $87 billion Iraq supplemental because I believed that it shortchanged security for our troops and allocated too much for no-bid contracts.Now, more than 3 years later, our reconstruction efforts in Iraq are a disaster and a national disgrace. Too many of our troops still ride into battle in vehicles that are not properly protected against IEDs and other weapons.Last June I voted against the administration's “stay the course” resolution that sought to conflate the war in Iraq with the entire struggle against al Qaeda, even as it failed to acknowledge that our strategy to stabilize the country was not working and that its country was slipping into civil war.Now, against the advice of Congress, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, most military experts and the American people, President Bush has determined that victory in Iraq can be achieved by deploying 21,000 additional combat troops to Baghdad and its environs.Regrettably, I cannot see how this escalation can be successful. Instead, I believe it will further the cycle of dependency that has allowed Iraq's Shiite dominated government to avoid making compromises with Sunnis and to avoid building capable security forces. It will increase the strain on our military at a time when the Army and Marines are already stretched to the breaking point. And, most of all, it will deepen our military commitment to Iraq at a time when there is a national consensus that we should be taking steps to reduce our combat role and reinvigorate the diplomatic process.The administration and the minority charge that those who do not support the escalation have no plan and that this is the only possible path to success. I disagree. The Iraq Study Group laid out a strategy that centered around a reduced American combat presence in Iraq, increased efforts to train Iraqi forces, increased pressures on the Iraqis to make compromises and a regional conference to hammer out a common approach to Iraq.This resolution is a clear message to the President that his approach has lost the confidence of this House and we need a change of direction. I hope he chooses to take our counsel. But he should be aware that the days of a rubber-stamp Congress are over, and we are willing to take other steps to insist on charting a new course in Iraq.
02.08.07	02.08.07 The Need for Comprehensive Climate Change Legislation Madam Speaker, on Friday, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released its fourth report on the state of climate change science. This report is the most comprehensive, unbiased summary of the climate situation because it evaluates all peer-reviewed research published around the world and draws only the most conservative conclusions. The report found that the evidence of global warming is unequivocal, and that the culprit is almost certainly our emissions. However, this troubling scientific consensus is not acceptable to some, like the American Enterprise Institute, which sent a letter to climate scientists offering them $10,000 to write articles challenging the IPCC's analysis. This is an appalling attempt by vested interests to buy science that is more convenient for their outdated philosophy. However, it is also encouraging because it demonstrates just how desperate the climate skeptics are. The IPCC report is the writing on the wall. The American people are demanding comprehensive climate change legislation, and we can delay no longer.
01.30.07	01.30.07 Schiff Commends Copyright Industries for Contributions to the American Economy Washington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) commended a report by the International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA), which highlights the copyright industries’ significant contributions to the U.S. economy. “This report is welcome news and shows how the copyright industries are vibrant, hard working, and successful,” said Schiff. “As a Representative of so many of these industries and their employees, I know firsthand the importance they play in providing quality jobs for Americans. This report demonstrates that the copyright industries and the intellectual property they produce are essential to the future of the American economy.”Major Findings of the IIPA’s Report on Copyright Industries in the U.S. Economy:The U.S. “core” copyright industries accounted for an estimated $819.06 billion or 6.56% of the U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) in 2005, up from 6.48% of the U.S. GDP ($760.49 billion) in 2004.The U.S. “total” copyright industries accounted for an estimated $1.38 trillion or 11.12 % of GDP in 2005, up from 11.09% of the U.S. GDP ($1.3 trillion) in 2004.The “core” copyright industries were responsible for 12.96% of the growth achieved in 2005 for the U.S. economy as a whole.The “core” copyright industries employed 5.38 million workers in 2005 (4.03% of U.S. workers), up from 5.34 million workers in 2004 (4.07%).The “total” copyright industries employed 11.3 million workers in 2005 (8.49%), up from 11.2 million workers in 2004 (8.53%).In 2005, estimated foreign sales and exports of the core copyright industries increased to at least $110.8 billion, leading other major industry sectors.Rep. Schiff’s district includes film and television studios for companies including Warner Brothers, DreamWorks, NBC, ABC, Nickelodeon and Disney, as well as numerous pre-production, post production and music industry employees.Rep. Schiff is a member of the Subcommittee on the Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property in the House Judiciary Committee. He is also a co-chair of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, a bipartisan group of House and Senate lawmakers dedicated to working with America’s international trade partners to secure the enactment of strong copyright laws and the vigilant enforcement of those laws.
01.27.07	01.27.07 Supporting the College Student Relief Act Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the College Student Relief Act. America's economy continues to change, and a college education has grown increasingly more important. Unfortunately, it has also grown increasingly more expensive, with tuition and fees for a four-year public college rising 41 percent--after inflation--since 2001. Federally subsidized loans provide a crucial helping hand to middle class students and families. This legislation will lessen the burden on hardworking students and families by cutting interest rates on federally subsidized student loans in half over a period of five years, from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent.In California, the average college student with federally subsidized loans graduates with more than $15,000 of debt. The costs of college are such that it is simply unaffordable for many students without help. Over the next decade, 4.4 million high school graduates will be prevented from attending a 4-year college by financial barriers. Our Nation's economic competiveness relies upon having the best educated workforce possible and investment in postsecondary education will yield great societal benefits.Madam Speaker, this legislation will make a difference in the lives of millions of young people, helping to put them on secure financial footing as they move from college to the working world. And it does so responsibly, within the structure of the PAY-GO rules that ensure that the entire $6 billion in costs will be paid for by reasonable offsets. I urge a “Yes” vote on this important legislation.
01.24.07	01.24.07 Oversight of the National Security Agency Mr. Speaker, in December 2005, we learned that the Bush administration was using the National Security Agency, the NSA, to eavesdrop on Americans on U.S. soil without a warrant or judicial oversight, in violation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.Over a year later, Congress has yet to address this issue, and the NSA's secret surveillance program has continued unabated. Just last week the administration continued its unilateral approach, announcing that notwithstanding its protestations last year, that it could not possibly allow the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to oversee the NSA program; it would now submit to the court's jurisdiction, but not tell the Congress how the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court would oversee the program or why its policies have changed.When Members of Congress questioned the Attorney General and the National Intelligence Director regarding this shift in policy, both officials refused to provide information regarding the nature of the administration's new policy in this area.Indeed, we have no idea whether the administration is now seeking warrants on an individualized basis or broad programmatic approval from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.Congressional silence in this area and others has had other repercussions. Earlier this month Congress was again caught by surprise when we learned that the President has claimed potentially sweeping new powers to open Americans' mail without a court warrant.Again, the administration could obtain a warrant, and quickly, from a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court judge, but has chosen not to submit this effort to court supervision. Interestingly, the developments over the last year bear a striking resemblance to events that occurred some 30 years ago, when a series of troubling reportsbegan appearing in the press concerning domestic intelligence activities and surveillance of political activities of U.S. citizens.These revelations and others revealed by the Watergate scandal convinced lawmakers that Congress had been too permissive and trusting, failing to carry out its oversight responsibilities over the executive branch.In response, a U.S. Senate committee was formed to investigate intelligence activities by the government. The United States Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities, commonly referred to as the Church committee, after its Senate chairman, issued more than 50,000 pages of reports in what is considered the most comprehensive review of intelligence activities in the country.Ironically, the reports included sections on mail opening as well as the National Security Agency and fourth amendment rights. In rebuffing recent congressional requests for information on the current NSA program, the administration has made the argument that the NSA surveillance program is too sensitive to be shared with Congress, even to Members in the classified setting.When these same concerns were weighed by the Church committee in 1975, the opposite result was reached, with the committee refusing to neglect its oversight responsibility merely because their work would be harder. In fact, the extensive oversight and the substantial record generated by the Church committee inspired the creation of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.Both have worked effectively to ensure that the President has the tools necessary to thwart attacks while ensuring respect for the civil liberties of Americans and the adherence to the rule of law. FISA, as it is called, has provided a measure of oversight over foreign intelligence activities on U.S. soil, and with it the confidence of the American people.This administration, however, has undermined that trust by circumventing FISA. Congress should follow the example of the Church committee, by vigorously examining the NSA surveillance program and determining what legislative action is necessary. The administration should cooperate and work with Congress as we engage in our oversight responsibilities, and make the case for statutory change if revisions are required to meet new challenges in the war on terror.If, however, the administration rejects congressional oversight in this area and continues to defy requests for information, Congress should seek other means of redress. I have introduced bipartisan legislation with Representative JEFF FLAKE that can serve as a basis for examining these issues and restoring the rule of law.The NSA Oversight Act, H.R. 11, would reiterate existing law requiring court approval for the surveillance of Americans on American soil, and would provide greater oversight of NSA's surveillance activity. Our legislation also makes some key changes to FISA in order to streamline and expedite the process in response to the administration's argument that the current framework was too cumbersome.Mr. Speaker, I urge the Congress to fully examine this issue, step up its oversight responsibility, and take legislative action if necessary.
01.19.07	01.19.07 Schiff Condemns the Murder of Journalist, Hrant Dink, in Turkey and Mourns his Loss Washington, D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff today mourned the loss of one of Turkey’s most prominent Armenian journalists, who was shot to death outside his newspaper’s office in Istanbul. Hrant Dink was a vocal critic of the Turkish government and a leading voice in calling for Armenian Genocide recognition. In 2003, on a trip to Turkey, Rep. Schiff met with Mr. Dink to discuss his efforts on Genocide recognition and press freedom issues. “From the moment I met Mr. Dink, I could tell that he was an incredibly courageous man who cared deeply about history and freedom of the press,” Schiff said. “His death is a great loss for all those who cherish free speech, and my thoughts and prayers are with his family at this very difficult time.” Rep. Schiff is drafting a letter to the Turkish Prime Minister this morning calling on him to investigate Mr. Dink’s murder and to ensure that this crime is solved and that those responsible are brought to justice.“The silencing of such a prominent and outspoken voice is not only a personal tragedy; it is also a tragedy for those who believe in a free and unfettered press, and for those who are committed to a thoughtful examination of the past,” Schiff wrote in the letter. “Hrant Dink had the courage to confront the facts of the Armenian Genocide, and that courage may have cost him his life.”Recently, Mr. Dink was featured in a documentary film “Screamers,” which raises awareness of the Armenian Genocide and calls for its recognition. Schiff also appeared in the film. In October 2005, Mr. Dink was found guilty for the crime of “insulting Turkishness” and was given a six-month suspended sentence after writing about the Armenian Genocide. In 2006, Mr. Dink was awarded the Norwegian Bjornson prize by the Bjornson Academy, which was established to protect freedom of expression.Rep. Schiff, a member of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues, represents the largest constituency of Armenians outside of Armenia. In 2005, Rep. Schiff authored legislation that passed the House International Relations Committee that recognized the Armenian Genocide. However, the bill did not receive a vote on the House Floor, and Rep. Schiff plans to reintroduce similar legislation this year. Rep. Schiff also co-chairs the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press which aims to support freedom of the press around the world and draw attention to and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists.
01.19.07	01.19.07 Honoring the Life of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in honor of Martin Luther King Day that we celebrated earlier this week. Americans celebrated the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King who would have turned 78 this month. While there is much left to be done, Dr. King's dream of a colorblind society is closer to reality this year than last.Dr. King championed nonviolent resistance as a means to bring about fundamental change. He sought such change to bring about equality between peoples of all races, an end to segregation and racial injustice and improved working conditions for all.Dr. King was a master of rhetoric, and he used his power to bring together Americans from a variety of backgrounds to march in pursuit of equality and justice. And Dr. King achieved great success at attaining these lofty goals, despite his murder at the age of 39.At only 26 years of age, Dr. King became a national figure by leading the Montgomery bus boycott. At that time, Dr. King was the new pastor of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church and was spurred to action by the arrest of Rosa Parks for refusing to give her seat on a public bus to a white man. Dr. King inspired action through his words, “There comes a time when people get tired of being trampled over by the iron feet of oppression.” With that, he called for a citywide boycott of public transit and demanded first come, first served seating, courteous treatment by bus operators, and the employment of African American bus drivers. The boycott lasted 382 days and in that time, Dr. King's house was bombed and he was arrested. Ultimately, the United States Supreme Court outlawed racial segregation on public transportation.With the success of the Montgomery bus boycott, Dr. King noted, “We have gained a new sense of dignity and destiny. We have discovered a new and powerful weapon, nonviolent resistance.”Nonviolent resistance, which had been pioneered by Mohandas Gandhi in India, became a cornerstone of King's strategy to gain full civil rights and equality for all people. Over the next 13 years, Dr. King achieved basic civil rights for African-Americans, desegregation, the annulment of Jim Crow laws and the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.Dr. Martin Luther King Day allows us to reflect on the steps that we, as a nation, have made towards fulfilling Dr. King's dream. Dr. King's 1963 March on Washington was organized around numerous demands for civil rights, many of which are still very relevant today. One such demand was full and fair employment, including a raise in the minimum wage from $1.25 to $2 at that time.I am proud that last week is part of the 110th Congress' first 100 hours. The House of Representatives addressed this issue by raising the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25. This will significantly benefit a great many low-income families, including the 2.1 million African American minimum wage earners. Other legislation in the first 100 hours will improve health care and education for American families, including 3.9 million African American Medicare beneficiaries and 2.3 million African American college students.This past weekend I commemorated the work of Martin Luther King, Jr., at the Jackie Robinson Park and at the Metropolitan Baptist Church in my district. At these celebrations my constituents and I examined our progress over the past 40 years since Dr. King's tragic death and remember his line from “I Have a Dream” about the fierce urgency of now. Dr. King preached then that now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children, and it is still that time now.With continued and wide disparities and access to higher education, wages, and access to health care, we as a Nation still have much work before us. Now, even as we celebrate one of the truly great men in this Nation's history, it is time to recommit ourselves to the vision of Dr. King and bring about racial equality and opportunity for every American.
01.19.07	01.19.07 Supporting Stem Cell Research Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3, the Stem Cell Research Advancement Act of 2007.In California, we have devoted State funds, nearly $300 million a year, to pursuing research on embryonic stem cells, and it has helped make California a destination for researchers on the cutting edge of biotechnology. But the promise of stem cell therapies will not benefit just the people of California, but all Americans, and indeed the entire world. Shutting the National Institute of Health out of this research is misguided, and turns our back on the many millions who may benefit from the cures it may provide.More than five years after the Administration instituted restrictions on Federal funding of embryonic stem cell research, the promise of this potential line of treatment is greater than ever.There are those who suggest that research on adult stem cells is equally promising and has produced new therapies--and I welcome further research in that area. But we, as legislators, should not prejudge which avenues are most promising. We should leave the science to the scientists.Embryonic stem cells have the potential to transform the way we treat diseases that afflict millions of Americans. There is not a person in America who doesn't know someone who suffers from diabetes or Alzheimer's or cancer or heart disease, and embryonic stem cell research hold tremendous promise for the treatment of each of those, along with many other potential therapies.Medical and biological ethics are a serious issue and we can have differences of opinion, but I believe that a commitment to lifesaving medical research that holds the potential to cure diseases like diabetes and Alzheimer's is consistent with a commitment to the sanctity of human life.Last year, I voted to override the President's veto of this important legislation. I hope the President will reconsider his opposition, and it will not be necessary to vote on an override again.
01.18.07	01.18.07 Ensuring Energy Security Madam Speaker, in these opening weeks of the 110th Congress, the Democratic majority in the House has succeeded in passing a package of bills that is designed to secure America. We passed a bill to improve our Nation's ability to prevent another 9/11 style attack on our country. We have made life a little more secure for millions in the United States who toil at the minimum wage, and millions of young people who leave college with a degree and a mountain of debt. We have secured the ability of America's medical researchers to explore and exploit the life-saving potential of stem cells. We have committed this government to safeguarding our economic security by ending years of fiscal irresponsibility. And today, we have begun what may be the most important project of all, to ensure America's energy security by ending our dependence on foreign oil and developing clean, green renewable sources of energy.Ensuring our energy security will require more than just the protection of American oil supplies from terrorists in hostile nations. It will also mean we find homegrown fuel sources that reduce our dependence on foreign oil.It will mean that we pare down our energy consumption and promote efficiency. It will mean that we transition to renewable energy sources that ensure a clean, dependable energy supply for years to come.There are those who say that it would cost too much to shift our infrastructure over to new energy sources. They say that the market has decided that coal and oil are the cheapest energy, and that switching to renewable energy would harm our economy.This is shortsighted, false, and, ultimately, dangerous because much of the true cost of oil and coal don't appear on the gas pump or on our electric bills. Extracting coal and oil harms the environment and burning fossil fuels produces pollution that clogs our cities and greenhouse gases that warm our atmosphere. Tens of thousands of Americans get lung cancer and other respiratory diseases from power plant air pollution and this, too, is part of the true cost of ``cheap'' energy. These expenses are paid by the American people just as surely as they pay their electric bills.But to find the true cost of a barrel of oil, we must look further, to a foreign policy beholden to oil and gas, and that price is too steep.Today the House passed a bill that will roll back tax breaks for oil and gas companies and reform the royalty relief system that has cost American taxpayers billions of dollars. The $13 billion dollars saved by this overdue reform will be placed in a strategic reserve to be spent on programs to accelerate the adoption of renewable energy and alternative fuels, promote energy efficiency, and step up research on advanced energy technologies. Initiatives like these are the only way to permanently reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and this bill is a good first step on the road to true energy security.European and Asian competitors are already developing technologies that will reduce fuel consumption and lower emissions of greenhouse gases. Rather than American entrepreneurs, it is our competitors who are prospering from these developments. By marshaling America's great strengths, our inventiveness, our technological prowess, and our entrepreneurial spirit, we can better secure our Nation, save our environment, and become the world leader in this cutting-edge industry.We must encourage the development of flexible-fuel and hybrid vehicles. These vehicles can be built with today's technology and will enable a smooth transition from gasoline to biofuels.We must raise the corporate average fuel economy standards.We must invest in research and development of new energy technologies, like wind power, cheap solar cells, plug-in hybrid cars, and cellulosic ethanol. The new energy economy will be dominated by rapid innovation, and the scientific investment we make now will be paid back with interest by the technologies it creates.We must encourage employers to offer mass-transit benefits so that employees can commute without their cars, and support mass transit systems around the country.We must pass global warming legislation to reduce our output of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. Many of America's most successful companies have realized that something must be done to contain global warming and they are now pushing Congress to lead.We know what must be done to end our dangerous addiction to oil. All we need now is the will to do it.Madam Speaker, we have lost so much time since 9/11, time that could have been so profitably used to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. But it is not too late to abruptly and constructively change course. The American people are ready for a clean energy economy, and the bill we passed today will begin to put our country on that new road to energy independence and a more secure future.
01.12.07	01.12.07 Responsible Redeployment - A Way Forward In Iraq Mr. Speaker, yesterday's decision by President Bush to escalate the U.S. troop commitment in Iraq will not bring stability to Baghdad. It will not ameliorate the growing civil war in Iraq. A troop increase will not result in a more rapid exit for the more than 130,000 American troops serving there, many of them on their third or fourth tour in Iraq. And worst of all, it makes apparent that the President has paid little heed to the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, a multitude of experts, both civilian and military, the Congress and, most importantly, an overwhelming majority of the American people.For a long time, many of us have been calling for a new way forward in Iraq, and the White House billed last night's speech as a dramatic departure from current policy. But while the rhetoric may have been different, the plan outlined by the President was more of the same, and he clearly intends to stay the course. This is a position that I believe is unwise and that I strongly oppose.I will support a resolution of disapproval, and I am willing to explore other options to force the President to truly change policy in Iraq.In his remarks, the President told us that failure in Iraq is unacceptable, but his prosecution of the war has made success in Iraq recede further and further from our reach. The latest escalation is another in a long series of poor decisions by the administration that have cost the lives of so many brave and dedicated troops, cost American taxpayers more than $350 billion and left Iraq in chaos. Shiites and Sunnis who once lived in integrated neighborhoods in Baghdad are slaughtering each other now at a terrifying pace. Iraqis spend 16 of every 24 hours without electricity.Rather than sending additional troops to combat the insurgency, we should begin to responsibly redeploy our forces in Iraq while redoubling our efforts to train and equip Iraqi forces to provide their own security, an effort which is at the very heart of the Iraq Study Group recommendations for bolstering security in Iraq.President Bush rightly characterized the most recent pushes to stabilize Baghdad, Operation Together Forward and Operation Together Forward II, as unsuccessful, because there were not enough Iraqi forces to hold areas cleared by American troops. But the President's assertion that we will now be able to rely on 18 Iraqi army and police brigades to shoulder much of the burden in a new offensive in Baghdad is clearly at odds with reality.The Iraqi Army has not distinguished itself in combat. And four of the six battalions that were deployed to the capital last summer failed to show up at all.The Iraqi police, which are under the control of the Ministry of the Interior, have been heavily infiltrated by Shiite militias and death squads and cannot be expected to take on Shiite extremists as Prime Minister Malaki has pledged. There is little support for an escalated American military presence in Iraq. American military commanders do not see an increase as improving the security situation on the ground, and the strain of multiple deployments has seriously eroded our capacity to respond to other contingencies should the need arise.The American people, Democrats and Republicans alike, do not support an increase in the troop strength in Iraq. Perhaps most important of all, the Iraqis do not want more American troops in Iraq. In fact, if there is one thing that unites Iraqis, it is the desire that American forces should not remain indefinitely.Furthermore, by continuing to bear the brunt of the fighting against insurgents, foreign fighters, and militias, the United States has fostered a dangerous dependence that has slowed efforts to have Iraqis shoulder the burden of defending their own country and government.Even as we focus our military efforts on training Iraqi security forces, we need to push the Sunnis and Shiites to make the political compromises that are the necessary precondition to any reconciliation process. I have been arguing for more than 2 years that the struggle in Iraq is primarily a political one. The Iraq Study Group and numerous outside experts have also pressed the administration to force the Iraqi Government to make the hard decisions on power sharing, minority rights, and the equitable distribution of oil revenues that could help quell the Sunni insurgency and undermine support for Shiite maximalists like Muktada al Sadr.I also believe the United States must work to convene a regional conference to support Iraq's bringing together its neighborhoods to find ways to stem the flow of weapons and foreign fighters into Iraq and to pursue common strategies in support of reconstruction and political reconciliation efforts.There is hard evidence that Iran is facilitating the flow of weapons, trainers, and intelligence to Shiite militias in a bid to assert greater control over its neighbor. At the same time, the long and porous Syrian border has continued to be a transit point for foreign jihadis who have carried out some of the spectacular and devastating attacks on U.S. troops and Iraqi civilians.Finally, our efforts in Iraq cannot be pursued in a vacuum. We need to do more to engage the Arab and Muslim world, and there must be a renewed effort to start peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. This week's passage of the 9/11 implementation bill included excellent proposals for buttressing our leadership by improving our communication of ideas and communication in the Muslim world and by expanding U.S. scholarship exchange and other programs in Muslim countries.Mr. Speaker, failure is unacceptable, but so is staying the course. I hope and expect that the debate we are going to have, the first real debate we have had in years, will convince the President to listen to those who are calling for a new way forward and not more of the same.
01.10.07	01.10.07 Support the Fair Minimum Wage Act Mr. Speaker, today we have the opportunity to raise the wages of 13 million Americans, and we should take it.Why raise the minimum wage in America? For the simple reason that men and women in the richest Nation on Earth should not work full time and still be relegated to living in poverty. What does it mean for the father or mother in a family of three to live on the current minimum wage? It means an income of $10,000 a year.Imagine living in Glendale, Burbank or Pasadena, or any city in America, and trying to get by on $10,000 a year. A raise in the minimum wage will be an additional $4,000 for that family of three. It will mean more groceries on the table and a greater opportunity to get health care. It will mean potentially pulling that family out of poverty. It is the right thing to do. We have the opportunity today to make that happen for millions, and we should take it.
01.09.07	01.09.07 Schiff Reacts to the Extradition of Armando Garcia Washington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff commended the Mexican government for extraditing Armando Garcia. On April 29, 2002, Los Angeles County Deputy Sheriff David March was murdered, execution-style, during a routine traffic stop. Armando Garcia was named a suspect and fled to Mexico where he had been a fugitive. In late 2005, Mexico lifted its ban prohibiting extradition cases when the criminal faces a life sentence in a United States jail without the possibility of parole. In February 2006, Mr. Garcia was arrested in Mexico and today the Mexican authorities have turned him over to American Authorities.“The family of Deputy March has been waiting for almost five years for justice – today, they are one step closer,” said Schiff, a former Assistant U.S. Attorney. “I thank the Mexican government for its help apprehending Garcia and I am hopeful that his extradition and prosecution will provide some solace for Deputy March’s family.”Since Deputy March’s tragic death, Rep. Schiff has actively sought justice for Armando Garcia. In 2002, Schiff spearheaded a letter to President Bush from the California delegation to encourage the swift extradition of Mr. Garcia. In the years since, he has also written to the U.S. Secretary of State and met with the Mexican Ambassador about the issue. Schiff and Rep. David Dreier also introduced legislation to make it a federal crime to murder a state or local police officer and flee the country.
01.09.07	01.09.07 Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this bill, which is long overdue and I commend the Speaker and other members of the Leadership for making this a priority.One of the most important findings of the 9/11 Commission was that the failure to anticipate the attack was a “failure of imagination.” The idea of such an assault was so abhorrent that it was difficult to think about. We cannot know for sure what form a future attack may take, but as we struggle to prevent it, we must be willing to consider the most horrific possibility: a nuclear or biological attack on an American city. The idea of 100,000 people killed in an instant, is an idea too terrible to contemplate, but to ignore this threat, or fail to act upon it with the greatest urgency, is to be grossly, criminally negligent with our Nation's security. Osama bin Laden has termed the acquisition of weapons of mass destruction “a religious duty.” He has called for an American Hiroshima. This is his Mein Kampf. H.R. 1 includes many of the best ideas from around the country on how to combat nuclear terrorism. But the one fundamental idea is that we must prevent terrorists from acquiring nuclear weapons or material, because once they are acquired, it may be too late. Programs throughout the government are struggling to secure nuclear weapons and materials around the world, and prevent nuclear trafficking. But there is little overall organization of these efforts. That's why our bill establishes a Coordinator for the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism in the Office of the President. The Coordinator will formulate and coordinate a comprehensive strategy for U.S.nonproliferation activities, oversee all nonproliferation and nuclear terrorism prevention programs, and advise the President and congress on the progress that each program is making.To assist the Coordinator, this bill establishes a bipartisan blue-ribbon commission to assess the current state of U.S.nonproliferation and nuclear terrorism prevention activities, develop a clear, comprehensive strategy, and identify the areas in which accelerated effort is most urgent.Currently, the President must certify that Russia is meeting certain conditions before authorizing the release of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds. This has caused delays in shielding vulnerable weapons when the President was unable to fully certify Russia. This bill removes those restrictions, granting the President more flexibility in negotiations with Russia. It also gives the President the flexibility to direct Cooperative Threat Reduction funds outside of Russiawhen necessary.The bill will strengthen the Global Threat Reduction Program, to accelerate the global clean-out of the most vulnerable stockpiles of nuclear material. At the current pace, cleaning up the most vulnerable nuclear sites around the globe will take more than a decade. Given al Qaeda’s desire for these weapons, how can we be assured that we will have this much time? We can't. The bill also urges the President to expand the Proliferation Security Initiative, an international program to intercept weapons of mass destruction shipments. It encourages joint training exercises, particularly with China and Russia, to strengthen our cooperation on security issues, and encourage them to adopt strict standards for WMD security. U.N. Security Council Resolution 1540 broached the idea of international standards for securing nuclear material, but was brief on the specifics. Now the U.S.must take the lead in establishing those standards, through organizations like the Proliferation Security Initiative.I hope everyone can support this long-awaited overhaul to our anti-nuclear-terrorism efforts.
01.05.07	01.05.07 Restoring the PAYGO Rules I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise to speak very strongly in favor of these PAYGO rules as a very strong step to restoring fiscal responsibility to this House. Over the last 6 years, the President and the Republican-controlled Congress essentially had a policy of borrow and spend. We didn't have the discipline to turn down new spending requests; we didn't have the discipline to pay for additional tax cuts. We even had, in the most ironic of weeks, a situation where we voted to increase the national debt by $800 billion in the same week we voted to cut taxes by $800 billion, and we made it very clear that we were borrowing the money to fund these additional tax cuts. This is not the way to restore fiscal responsibility to this House. PAYGO is. The first rule of PAYGO is when you are in a hole, as we are in, when you are in a budgetary hole, stop digging. If we want new spending, we need to find a way to pay for it. If we want new tax cuts, that is great, too, we need to find a way to pay for it. And we cannot pay for it by asking these young men and women fighting for us in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere to come home and pay for it later and have their children pay for it. Because right now all we are doing is shifting this obligation onto our children and grandchildren. That has got to stop.
01.04.07	01.04.07 Schiff, Flake Introduce "NSA Oversight Act" WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, on the first day of the 110th Congress, Reps. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) offered a bipartisan measure that will modernize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to respond to changes in technology and new threats, but that will retain court supervision over domestic electronic surveillance. The “NSA Oversight Act” directly addresses the President's domestic surveillance program. “Electronic surveillance of those seeking to harm our country must be targeted and aggressive. It must also be constitutional and respect the privacy of law-abiding Americans,” Schiff said. “When Congress passed FISA and Title III, it intended to provide the sole authority for surveillance of Americans on American soil. Those acts require court approval for such surveillance, and the FISA court has proved capable of acting expeditiously.” “Updates and improvements in FISA need to be codified in law to ensure that they survive the present administration,” said Flake. The Schiff-Flake legislation responds to the issues that have been raised by officials at the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Department of Justice last year in testimony to Congress. The bipartisan measure on NSA oversight:Extends Emergency Electronic Surveillance Authority to Prevent Attacks - extends from 72 hours to 7 days the amount of time allowed to initiate surveillance in an urgent situation before going to the FISA court for a warrant. This authority can be used to thwart imminent attacks. Enhances Electronic Surveillance Authority after an Attack - provides that in addition to a “declaration of war by the Congress,” an “authorization for the use of military force (AUFM)” can also trigger the FISA “wartime exception” for purposes of allowing 15 days of warrantless surveillance.Clarifies that Foreign-to-Foreign Communications are Outside FISA - makes clear that foreign-to-foreign communications are outside of FISA and don’t require a court order. Permits Continued Surveillance Where Targets Travel Internationally - provides that a FISA order for electronic surveillance shall continue to be in effect for the authorized period even if the person leaves the U.S.Streamlines FISA Application Process - removes redundant requirements in the application process and streamlines some of the current detailed requirements in order to permit information to be drafted in summary form.Increases Speed and Agility of FISA Process – authorizes the FISA court, DOJ, FBI, and NSA to hire more staff for the preparation and consideration of FISA applications and orders. Authorizes the appointment of additional FISA judges to provide for the prompt and timely consideration of FISA applications and requires a 24-hour turnaround for emergency applications. Reiterates Exclusivity of FISA and Clarifies Military Force Statute – reiterates that FISA is the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes may be conducted, unless Congress amends the law or passes additional laws regarding electronic surveillance. Makes clear that the AUMF does not constitute an exception to that rule.Requires Congressional Oversight of TSP and Other Programs in Existence - requires a report to Intel on the Terrorist Surveillance Program (TSP) and any program involving electronic surveillance of U.S. persons in the U.S. for foreign intelligence purposes that is outside FISA. Provides access of this report to members of the Judiciary Committee. Reps. Schiff and Flake previously teamed up on similar legislation last year. They offered several measures dealing with domestic surveillance including one that would have cut funding to any program that conducted domestic surveillance outside of FISA. However, the amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill was defeated in a close vote, with 23 Republicans supporting the measure. Reps. Schiff and Flake also worked together in 2005 to secure passage of an amendment to the Patriot Act to provide additional safeguards for library and bookstore records.
01.03.07	01.03.07 Schiff Cosponsors Initiatives that Will Provide a New Direction for America Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff announced that he has cosponsored legislation that will make the American people safer, Congress more honest and open, our economy fairer, and will build a better future for all of America’s children. These initiatives, called the “100 Hours” legislation, are a group of bills that will be taken up in the first 100 legislative hours of the 110th Congress and consist of ethics reform, fiscal reform, homeland security, minimum wage and other key priorities. “In November, the American people spoke, and we in Congress must now act immediately and bring America in a new direction,” Schiff said. “These initiatives will ensure better opportunities for all Americans. I plan to do all I can to ensure these bills pass quickly with bipartisan support so Americans get the help they need now.” This legislation was drafted in response to the American people’s call for greater integrity in Washington. In November 2006, Americans called for common-sense proposals needed to improve the everyday lives of all Americans. In response, the “Six for ‘06” agenda addresses critical economic, homeland security, health care, and educational concerns of ordinary families. The “100 Hours” legislation builds on the “Six for ‘06” agenda. The “100 Hours” legislation aims to: Ensure honest leadership and open government in Congress by providing more transparency in Congress; Implement Congressional fiscal responsibility by requiring “pay-as-you go” budget discipline; Implement the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations in order to better protect all Americans; Institute the 9/11 Commission’s recommendations on intelligence oversight reform to ensure Americans their right to privacy under the rule of law; Increase in the minimum wage so all Americans can earn a livable wage: Provide resources for life-saving stem cell research; Require Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices so seniors and the disabled have affordable access to the prescription drugs they need; Cut interest rates on student loans to provide better access for everyone to higher education; and Repeal big oil subsidies and invest in renewable fuels to ease the pain at the pump and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Rep. Schiff was recently appointed to serve on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress. In the 109th Congress, Rep. Schiff served on the House International Relations Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
12.14.06	12.14.06 Schiff Calls for a Submarine to be Named the U.S.S. California Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Adam Schiff authored a bipartisan letter cosigned by twenty-four of his California Congressional colleagues to Secretary of the Navy Donald Winter and Chief of Naval Operations Admiral Michael Mullen requesting that a new Virginia-class attack submarine be named the U.S.S. California. There are currently two Virginia-class attack submarines that have been ordered, but have yet to be named. The last naval ship to be named after California was retired in 1999. “Ships named after California have a long proud tradition of serving our country, and I would like to see that tradition continued,” Schiff said. “California is host to one of only six submarine bases in the country, so it is only fitting to have a sub in the fleet named after our great state.” The text of the letter is below.December 11, 2006The Honorable Donald C. Winter Secretary of the Navy 100 Navy Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20350 Admiral Michael MullenChief of Naval Operations2000 Navy Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20350 Dear Mr. Secretary and Admiral Mullen:We respectfully request that you name one of the new Virginia-class attack submarines the U.S.S. California. The Virginia-class submarines SSN-780 and SSN-781 have been ordered, with delivery expected 2011 and 2013 respectively, but have not yet been named. As there is currently no vessel in the United States Navy named for the nation’s most populous state, we ask that you honor our state by giving one of the two ships the historic and appropriate name – the U.S.S. California. To have a newly commissioned warship named for their state would be a wonderful tribute to the thousands of Californians proudly serving in the United States Armed Forces, as well as the millions of Californians who have served their country in the past. Previous ships bearing the U.S.S. California name have a long and storied history. The first U.S.S. California, a screw propelled frigate, was christened in 1869. In 1941, the U.S.S. California (BB-44) was the flagship of the U.S. Pacific fleet stationed in Pearl Harbor. She was badly damaged by Japanese torpedoes, and partially sunk. Three crewmen serving aboard the battleship that day were posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for acts of bravery in saving the lives of their shipmates. A few months later, the California was salvaged and repaired, and served in the Pacific Theater during the final two years of World War II. She was present at several crucial battles in the Pacific theater, including the Battle of Surigao Strait – the last naval engagement fought by opposing battleships.The most recent U.S.S. California (CGN-36) was the lead ship of her class of nuclear-powered guided missile cruisers. The “Golden Grizzly,” as she was known in recognition of the grizzly bear on the California State Flag, was a vital part of the U.S. fleet from her launch in 1971 to her retirement in 1999. California is a state with a long naval history, and today Naval Base San Diego is home to the Third Fleet. It would be a great honor to all Californians if the storied history of the ships named for the state of California were augmented by naming a sophisticated Virginia-class submarine – which will be the staple of the United States submarine fleet for years to come – for our wonderful state.Sincerely,
12.13.06	12.13.06 Schiff Tapped to Serve on the House Appropriations Committee in the 110th Congress Washington, DC – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) was selected by Speaker-Designate Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee to serve on the House Appropriations Committee when the House of Representatives convenes the 110th Congress in January. The House Appropriations Committee is charged with setting all funding expenditures for the federal government. “This is an important opportunity to help provide oversight of the nation's expenditures, and to ensure that our tax dollars are spent wisely. I intend to work hard to serve the best interests of our region, our state and our country in this new position,” Schiff said. “I appreciate the confidence that has been placed in me with this assignment, and will be a careful steward of the nation's resources.”The Appropriations Committee is an exclusive committee (members who sit on such committees must give up other assignments) and one of the most sought-after in the House. Rep. Schiff made a bid for this committee assignment so he could help ensure adequate oversight of the nation's expenditures and so that Southern California would have additional representation on the committee due to the important role the region plays in our nation’s economy, security, and infrastructure.In the 109th Congress, Rep. Schiff served on the House International Relations Committee and the House Judiciary Committee. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
12.06.06	12.06.06 Schiff Introduces Bill to Ensure Restitution is not Lost Due to a Criminal Defendant's Death Washington D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff, member of the House Judiciary Committee, today introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation that will ensure victims do not lose their right to restitution when a criminal defendant dies prior to the appeals process. The Preserving Crime Victims’ Restitution Act (H.R. 6374) was conceived to fix a loophole recently highlighted in former Enron CEO Kenneth Lay’s criminal case. Under current common law, convictions can be dismissed if a defendant dies before his appeal is final. On October 17, U.S. District Judge Sim Lake, of the Southern District of Texas, dismissed the criminal convictions of Enron founder Kenneth Lay in the wake of his death, even after Lay had been found guilty of 10 criminal charges, including securities fraud, wire fraud involving false and misleading statements, bank fraud and conspiracy.“This is common sense bipartisan legislation that will protect victims’ rights in criminal cases,” Schiff said. “As a former federal prosecutor, I know firsthand the importance restitution plays in helping to compensate for at least some of the harm suffered by victims of crime. I’m hopeful we can pass this bill quickly and get it to the President’s desk for his signature before the end of the year.”H.R. 6374 is cosponsored in the House by Louie Gohmert (R-TX) and Tom Feeney (R-FL). Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Jeff Sessions (R-AL) who worked in coordination with the Department of Justice.“This bipartisan bill offers a straightforward mechanism for the Justice Department to use to ensure that hard-won convictions are upheld, even in cases when a defendant dies before the completion of the appeals process,” Senator Feinstein said. “This will protect the restitution rights of the Enron victims and others who have suffered similar crippling financial losses because of corporate malfeasance.”The Preserving Crime Victims’ Restitution Act would clarify the legal procedures surrounding the death of a criminal defendant before the case has completed the appeals process. Specifically, the bill would:Establish that, if a defendant dies after being convicted of a federal offense, his conviction will not be vacated. Instead, the court will be directed to issue a statement stating that the defendant was convicted (either by a guilty plea or a verdict finding him guilty) but then died before his case or appeal was final;Codify the current rule that no further criminal punishments can be imposed on a person who is convicted if he dies before a sentence is imposed or he had an opportunity to appeal his conviction;Clarify that, unlike criminal punishment, all other relief (such as restitution to the victims) that could have been sought against a convicted defendant, can continue to be pursued and collected after the defendant’s death;Establish a process to ensure that after a person dies, a representative of his estate can challenge or appeal his conviction and can secure a lawyer or have one appointed; andGrant the government an additional two years after the defendant’s death to recover assets through a civil forfeiture lawsuit that it had already sought though a similar criminal action.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
11.30.06	11.30.06 Statement of Congressman Adam Schiff on Russia's Pledge to Prosecute Companies that Illegally Distribute Copyrighted Works on the Internet Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff, author of a resolution calling for the global protection of intellectually property rights (H.Con.Res. 380), issued the following statement on the agreement reached between Russia and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative to take action against digital piracy.“As a Representative whose district is comprised of many producers of intellectual property, I am pleased that Russia has finally agreed to take action to protect copyrighted materials from being distributed illegally on the Internet and to shutdown one of the largest violators, Allofmp3.com. However, there is much more Russia will need to do to demonstrate its commitment to intellectual property protection.” Allofmp3.com was branded by the U.S. Department of Commerce as the world’s highest-volume online seller of pirated music, and it claims five million subscribers with a growth rate of 5,000 a day. Each day that the site continues to operate, countless thefts will be permitted to occur. “As Co-Chairman of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, I believe that Russia and other countries must not be permitted to join the World Trade Organization (WTO) in the absence of a true commitment to international law and the protection of intellectual property -- one of our nation's chief exports. In October, I coauthored a letter to President Bush calling on him not to conclude an accession agreement with Russia to the WTO until they ensure that the country’s copyright laws and enforcement systems satisfy the provisions of the WTO.“This agreement is a step in the right direction, but we will look for concrete results to determine whether Russia is ready for admission to the WTO.”
10.23.06	10.23.06 Schiff Participates in Demonstration of New Public Safety Communications System Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff participated in a demonstration of a new public safety communications system with Members of Congress, local public safety officers, and local public officials. The demonstration highlighted the new Interagency Communications Interoperability System (ICIS) which allows public safety officials from various agencies to communicate quickly and effectively in order to coordinate efforts when a local crisis occurs. “With the constant threat of an earthquake, forest fire and a new era of homeland security demands, it is imperative that our firefighters, police, first responders and public officials have the ability to communicate in a time of crisis,” Schiff said. “The cities in our region continue to lead the way in the development of interoperable communications systems. Whether chasing a suspect across city lines, reacting to a hillside fire, or worse, it is imperative that our emergency responders have the ability to communicate quickly and uninterrupted. This is a core recommendation of the bipartisan 911 commission, and I will continue to push to see each of the commission recommendations implemented in our community and around the nation.”Rep. Schiff has continually fought for funding for ICIS during his tenure in Congress, and obtained $500,000 for our local communications system -- a top priority of law enforcement and emergency responders. Often, local law enforcement agencies, first responders and other public safety officials use differing communications equipment that does not allow agencies to talk to one another. ICIS allows seamless communication between all those responsible for responding to a local crisis such as a natural disaster or terrorist attack.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.23.06	10.23.06 Schiff Brings Astronaut to Visit Fifth Grade Students in the Pasadena Unified School District Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Schiff visited two Elementary schools with NASA astronaut Dr. James H. Newman. Every year, Congressman Schiff invites astronauts to speak at area schools to encourage students to pursue interests in math and science. Dr. Newman and Congressman Schiff met with over 300 fifth-grade students in Altadena and Pasadena. Fifth-graders at Altadena Elementary school were joined by students from Loma Alta Elementary School for the first presentation, and fifth-graders at Washington Elementary school were joined by students from Hamilton Elementary School and Webster Elementary School for the second event.“As Members of Congress, we must do our part to advance scientific knowledge and exploration as core values of our society. One important way we engender a sense of excitement about math and science is by bringing real life heroes into the classroom,” said Schiff. These astronaut visits are part of Congressman Schiff’s "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. Dr. Newman has flown on four space flights in 1993, 1995, 1998, and 2002. On those flights he logged over 43 days in space and participated in six space walks. Dr. Newman has worked at NASA for over 20 years. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.19.06	10.19.06 Schiff, Pence Call On Russian President to Halt Persecution of Journalists and Fulfill Promise to Investigate Journalist's Murder Washington, DC – Representatives Adam Schiff and Mike Pence, Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, have written to Russian President Vladimir Putin calling on him to fulfill his promise to thoroughly investigate the death of journalist and author Anna Politkovskaya and to ensure the right of a free press in his country. Ms. Politkovskaya wrote about human rights abuses and in particular the conflict in Chechnya, and she was an outspoken critic of President Putin. Ms. Politkovskaya was the thirteenth Russian journalist killed during Putin’s Presidency and so far none of the other murders has been solved. Reps. Schiff and Pence started the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press earlier this year to raise awareness regarding media censorship and to promote press freedom around the world. “Ms. Politkovskaya’s death is a loss to all those who support democracy in Russia,” Schiff said. “President Putin must make every effort to bring those responsible to justice, and to ensure that not another journalist joins the ranks of the murdered press in Russia.”"Ms. Politkovskaya's death is a tragedy," said Pence. "This troubling trend of the intimidation and murder of Russian journalists must be investigated vigorously by President Putin and his government. The killers must be brought to justice if Russia is to be taken seriously as a nation that values a free press."The text of the letter is below.October 17, 2006His Excellency Vladimir PutinPresident of the Russian FederationThe KremlinMoscow, RussiaDear President Putin, As Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, we want to express our deep concern regarding the recent murder of journalist and author, Anna Politkovskaya. We welcome your commitment to thoroughly investigate the case. Ms. Politkovskaya’s slaying highlights what we see as a growing trend in Russia – unsolved murders of journalists who are critical of the government. Ms. Politkovskaya was the thirteenth Russian journalist killed during your tenure as president. None of the twelve previous murder cases has been solved and this is of grave concern to us. We encourage you to fulfill your promise to ensure that all necessary efforts are made to objectively investigate Ms. Politkovskaya’s death. Finding those who are responsible for her death and ensuring they are prosecuted is imperative to promoting democracy in your country. In addition, we urge you to undertake all efforts to ensure the safety of journalists in your nation. Tragically, Russia has been the third deadliest country for journalists over the past fifteen years according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. A free and open press is an essential guarantor of human rights. Censorship, intimidation, imprisonment, and murder of journalists is an individual crime, but one that also violates the rights of those who are denied access to important ideas and information. International law clearly guarantees freedom of expression and the right to a free press, and we urge the restoration of these rights in Russia. Sincerely,
10.13.06	10.13.06 Schiff Calls On President of Turkmenistan To Halt Persecution of Journalists Washington, DC – Representative Adam Schiff, Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, has written to the President of Turkmenistan calling on him to investigate the death of journalist Ogulsapar Muradova and restore the right to a free press in his country. It is believed that Ms. Muradova was falsely tried and sent to jail solely for her work as a journalist. While in jail, Ms. Muradova appears to have been assaulted or tortured, and died of her injuries. Rep. Schiff was joined by a group of seventeen bipartisan colleagues in signing the letter. “The censorship, intimidation, imprisonment, and murder of journalists violate not only their personal liberty, but also the rights of those who are denied access to [important] ... ideas and information,” the letter to President Niyazov reads. “International law clearly guarantees freedom of expression and the right to a free press, and we urge the restoration of these rights in Turkmenistan.”The text of the letter is below. His Excellency Saparmurat NiyazovPresident of Turkmenistan and Chairman of the Cabinet of MinistersThe Embassy of Turkmenistan2207 Massachusetts Ave., NWWashington, DC 20008October 12, 2006Dear President Niyazov, We are writing regarding the journalist Ogulsapar Muradova, correspondent for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL), who late last month died in Ovodan Depe high-security prison. The circumstances of Ms. Muradova’s death, the fate of her family, and the treatment of her co-defendants are of great concern to us. As you may know, Ms. Muradova was tried with human rights activists Annakurban Amanklychev and Sapardurdy Khajiyev, all of whom received sentences of six or seven years. The trial was held secretly without any independent observers and lasted less than two hours.According to the results of an investigation by the German public radio station Deutsche Welle, Ms. Muradova’s body bore “marks on the neck characteristic of strangling.” The investigation, based on an autopsy that was carried out on September 12th in the presence of the police, also concluded that Muradova’s body had a large head wound and that she had suffered internal bleeding. Her death was probably caused by strangulation or by blows to the back of the head that were inflicted seven to ten days before she died. It is believed that these findings were recorded in an official document, which the police may have altered subsequently, as it is in their possession.These findings confirm reports by a member of Muradova’s family who managed to exchange messages with her while she was in prison. Muradova told her relative she could not stand the mistreatment.We are also concerned about a report from Reporters Without Borders that indicates you have ordered the families of Ms. Muradova, and Messrs. Amanklychev and Khajiyev be transferred to an unknown location by mid-October. The same report states that Ms. Muradova’s three children are currently cut-off from the outside world. Their home is under active surveillance by the security services making it virtually impossible for them to travel outside their home and their telephones have been disconnected. They have been fired from their jobs and have no income. If this report is true, we encourage you to immediately reverse this decision and allow these families to live in peace without the interference of the government. We strongly encourage you to conduct a full investigation of the circumstances surrounding the death of Ms. Muradova and that those responsible be prosecuted. A free and open press is an essential guarantor of human rights. The censorship, intimidation, imprisonment, and murder of journalists violate not only their personal liberty, but also the rights of those who are denied access to these ideas and information. International law clearly guarantees freedom of expression and the right to a free press, and we urge the restoration of these rights in Turkmenistan.
10.12.06	10.12.06 House and Senate Pass Legislation to Block U.S. Aid for an Armenia Railroad Bypass Washington, D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff, a leading cosponsor of bipartisan legislation that will block U.S. taxpayer funding for a proposed railroad between Turkey and Georgia that would circumvent Armenia and undermine the economic viability of the existing Caucasus railroad route through Armenia, commended the Senate on recently passing companion legislation. The legislation will now be sent the President to be signed into law. “This is a common sense measure aimed at saving the American tax-payers money and also protects the Armenian economy,” Schiff said. “It makes no sense to build a completely new railroad when the Caucasus railroad route through Armenia is a functional alternative. This bill will prevent Turkey and Azerbaijan in its attempt to exclude Armenia from participating in the region’s economy.”The House took action on this measure first back in July when it passed an amendment supported by Rep. Schiff to the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization bill. Following the House’s lead, the Senate passed a similar amendment to the Export-Import Bank Reauthorization bill on the last legislative day before the Senate recessed for the month of October. The amendment was based on the South Caucacus Integration and Open Railroads Act which Rep. Schiff cosponsored in the House. Congressman Adam Schiff is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, including the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Griffith Park, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena, and Temple City.
09.29.06	09.29.06 Issa/Schiff Patent Pilot Bill Approved by Voice Vote Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives, last night, voted to establish a pilot program in certain United States district courts to encourage enhancement of expertise in patent cases among district judges. H.R. 5418, introduced by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) was approved by voice vote.“At present, far too many district court decisions are appealed to the Federal Circuit, because the Federal Circuit reverses district courts much of the time,” said Rep. Issa in a statement for the Congressional Record. “These reversals are so frequent that many litigants see an appeal to the Federal Circuit as an automatic next step. Such litigation decreases the productivity of American businesses, because resources that could be used for research and development and other more productive endeavors, goes to pay attorney's fees.”“This legislation will raise the level of expertise in patent litigation, improve the reliability of patents and allow businesses to spend more time inventing and less time litigating,” Rep. Schiff said. “This will reduce the cost to consumers of everything from promising new medicines to the latest cell phones.”Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program. The core intent of the pilot program is to enhance training and staffing for judges who have the desire and aptitude to hear more patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success.H.R. 5418 has garnered broad support from the patent community and has not faced opposition in Congress. Last week, Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced S. 3923 as a companion bill to H.R. 5418. H.R. 5418 remains on track to become law before the adjournment of the 109th Congress.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
09.28.06	09.28.06 Schiff, Flake, Offer Bipartisan Measure to Prohibit NSA Surveillance of Americans on American Soil Unless Authorized by Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Congressman Jeff Flake (R-AZ), members of the House Judiciary Committee, will offer bipartisan legislation on the House Floor today to address the President's domestic surveillance program. The Schiff/Flake substitute is an alternative to the Administration-backed bill that would give the President unprecedented powers to surveil Americans without Congressional or court review. The Schiff/Flake substitute would update provisions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to provide intelligence agencies more flexibility in emergency situations and lesser bureaucratic red tape when applying for warrants, while still requiring court orders for domestic surveillance of Americans.“The Federal Government has a duty to pursue al Qaeda and other enemies of the U.S. with all available tools to thwart future attacks and to destroy the enemy,” said Schiff. “Electronic surveillance of those seeking to harm our country must continue; it must also comply with the Constitution.”The Schiff-Flake legislation responds to the issues that have been raised by officials at the NSA (National Security Agency) and the Department of Justice over the last several months in testimony to Congress. The bipartisan amendment on NSA oversight:Extends Warrantless Electronic Surveillance Authority to Prevent Attacks - extends from 72 hours to 7 days the amount of time allowed to initiate surveillance in an urgent situation before going to the FISA court for a warrant. This authority can be used to thwart imminent attacks. Enhances Electronic Surveillance Authority after an Attack - provides that in addition to a “declaration of war by the Congress,” an “authorization for the use of military force (AUFM)” can also trigger the FISA “wartime exception” for purposes of allowing 15 days of warrantless surveillance.Clarifies that Foreign-to-Foreign Communications are Outside FISA - makes clear that foreign-to-foreign communications are outside of FISA and don’t require a court order.Permits Continued Surveillance Where Targets Travel Internationally - provides that a FISA order for electronic surveillance shall continue to be in effect for the authorized period even if the person leaves the U.S.Streamlines FISA Application Process - removes redundant requirements in the application process and streamlines some of the current detailed requirements in order to permit information to be drafted in summary form.Increases Speed and Agility of FISA Process – authorizes the FISA court, DOJ, FBI, and NSA to hire more staff for the preparation and consideration of FISA applications and orders. Authorizes the appointment of additional FISA judges to provide for the prompt and timely consideration of FISA applications and requires a 24-hour turnaround for emergency applications. Reiterates Exclusivity of FISA and Clarifies Military Force Statute – reiterates that FISA is the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance for foreign intelligence purposes may be conducted, unless Congress amends the law or passes additional laws regarding electronic surveillance. Makes clear that the AUMF does not constitute an exception to that rule.Requires Congressional Oversight of TSP and Other Programs in Existence - requires a report to Intel on the Terrorist Surveillance Program (TSP) and any program involving electronic surveillance of U.S. persons in the U.S. for foreign intelligence purposes that is outside FISA. Provides access of this report to members of the Judiciary Committee. Reps. Schiff and Flake previously teamed up to protect the civil liberties of Americans while ensuring that our national security needs are met. Last year, the two secured passage of an amendment to the Patriot Act to provide additional safeguards for library and bookstore records.
09.27.06	09.27.06 House Approves Legislation to Extend Aid to School Systems Recovering from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House approved bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) that will help rebuild school systems affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The legislation will extend part of a law passed last year that provides school systems easier access to federal resources and will also allow them greater flexibility in how they spend the money. "We can’t allow children to go without access to a quality education, and a safe and healthy school,” Schiff said. On my visit to the Gulf Coast, I was deeply saddened to see the extent of the devastation, and find it tragic that so little has been accomplished since. We must make rebuilding the schools in our devasted gulf states the very highest priority. Our kids' education must not get mired down in a bureaucratic process that ignores the needs of our children."On the Anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, Rep. Schiff traveled to the Gulf Coast with a group of House Democrats on a fact finding mission. During his visit, he met the Superintendent of St. Bernard Schools, Doris Voitier who raised the need for this legislation. She told Rep. Schiff and his colleagues how devastating it would be for this funding and flexibility to dry up and wither away. The legislation will give the Secretary of Education the ability to waive certain funding requirements in order to help school systems gain easier access to badly needed resources. Without the waiver, schools often have to find matching state or local funding in order to be eligible for federal funds. As a result of the storms and flooding, however, the local tax base in several Gulf Coast communities is decimated. The loss of business and government infrastructure, jobs and housing has deprived school districts of local property taxes that normally fund school operations.
09.26.06	09.26.06 Schiff Amendment to Address the Threat Posed by Improvised Explosive Devices Sent to the President's Desk for a Signature WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House approved a measure authored by Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) to require the Secretary of Defense to submit quarterly reports to Congress regarding the threat posed by IEDs and the efforts being undertaken to eliminate such a threat. Rep. Schiff introduced the amendment in reaction to continuing news reports dating back to the beginning of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan that have highlighted the catastrophic dangers associated with improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and continuing concerns over the Defense Department’s response to the problem. The bill was included in the National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report (H.R. 5122) and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “Almost every day, we receive the grim news that an American soldier or Marine has been killed by an IED,” Schiff said. “I have never been satisfied that we are moving quickly enough to detect, disarm or safely detonate IEDs. This measure will give Congress the ability to monitor the fight against IEDs in order to ensure we are making every effort we can to defeat them. I am please my colleagues supported my measure; we must do everything possible to protect our troops from the devastating effects of improvised explosive devices.” The amendment will require each report to include information regarding every incident involving the detonation or discovery of an IED in the past 90 days. In assessing the threat posed by the IEDs in Iraq and Afghanistan the report will include the following:Any work being done by any office in the Department of Defense or by military department that focuses on counteringIEDs;Any countermeasures being used and their success rate; Any evidence of assistance by foreign countries or other opposition forces;A list and summary of information or reports developed by the Department of Defense and Armed Forces on counter-IEDefforts;The status of any and all efforts within the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces to research, develop, test, andevaluate countermeasures and what is being done to speedup their introduction. Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
09.21.06	09.21.06 House Passes Schiff Sponsored Legislation to Secure Our Borders WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House passed bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) that will criminalize the construction or financing of border tunnels. As a former federal prosecutor who prosecuted drug trafficking and illegal immigrant smuggling, Schiff recognized the need to give prosecutors new tools to fight these crimes. Schiff joined Rep. David Dreier (R-CA) in sponsoring the measure in the House and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Jon Kyl (R-AZ) have introduced companion legislation in the Senate.This week, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration announced the discovery of a drug smuggling tunnel that ran from Calexico, CA to Mexicali, Mexico. Earlier this year, U.S. border officials also found a 2,400 foot tunnel stretching from Tijuana, Mexico to San Diego at California’s southern border. The tunnel, the longest of its kind ever found, was equipped with sophisticated draining, lighting, and pulley systems.“The discovery of these tunnels is a wake-up call for every Member of Congress,” Schiff said, “This is not a California or an Arizona problem – it is national one. Although these tunnels have been principally used to smuggle drugs and illegal immigrants, there is nothing preventing their use for the smuggling of chemical, biological, or radiological material. The 9/11 Commission warned against a failure of imagination, and it takes little to imagine terrorists making use of these holes in our border security.”Since 9/11, U.S. border officials have discovered approximately 40 tunnels along American borders. They range in complexity from short “gopher holes” to massive drug-cartel built passages like the one found in San Diego. The legislation passed today would:Impose a punishment of up to 20 years imprisonment for constructing or financing a tunnel crossing international borders into the United States;Impose a punishment of up to 10 years imprisonment for anyone who permits others to construct or use an unauthorized tunnel or subterranean passage on their land;Punish any person who uses a tunnel or subterranean passage to smuggle aliens, weapons, drugs, terrorists or illegal goods by doubling the sentence for the underlying offense if convicted;Forfeit the assets of anyone involved in the offense, or any property traceable to the offense, in addition to imprisonment;Instruct the U.S. Sentencing Commission to amend sentencing guidelines to provide criminal penalties for persons convicted under this bill, and to take into account the gravity of this crime when considering the base offense levels.Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
09.20.06	09.20.06 Schiff Offers Bipartisan Amendment to Establish Clearly Defined Laws Prohibiting Torture and Inhumane Treatment Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff today offered a bipartisan amendment in the House Judiciary Committee that would establish clearly defined laws to prohibit torture and cruel, inhumane, or degrading treatment of military detainees. The legislation was aimed at ensuring that interrogators and officials have sufficient notice of what conduct could subject them to liability. This legislation will help protect our troops proscribing torture or inhumane treatment. Congressman Schiff’s amendment to the Military Commissions Act sparked over two hours of debate. It lost on a close vote of 17 to 18. “When American troops are captured on the battlefield, I want them given every protection of the Geneva Convention,” Schiff said. “If we rewrite the rules of the Convention in how we handle our own detainees, we undermine the security of our own troops.”Congressman Schiff’s Amendment was very similar to legislation authored by Senators John Warner (R-VA), John McCain (R-AZ), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), which enjoyed strong bipartisan support in the Senate. Congressman Schiff’s amendment along with the Warner/McCain/Graham legislation clearly defines “cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment” as any conduct that would be unconstitutional under the 5th, 8th, and 14th Amendments of the Constitution.
09.18.06	09.18.06 IRS Actions on Sermons Questioned by Lawmakers Washington, D.C. – Seeking to protect the free speech rights of clergy to speak on important matters of the day, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Rep. Walter B. Jones (R-NC) called for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to justify its investigation of certain houses of worship throughout the country.Late last year, the IRS’s Political Activity Compliance Initiative (PACI) launched an examination of All Saints Episcopal Church of Pasadena, questioning whether a sermon given days before the November 2004 election was in violation of the church’s tax-exempt status. The sermon delivered by former rector Rev. George F. Regas was framed as a debate between Jesus and both presidential candidates, and it focused solely on matters of public policy.Just last week, the IRS escalated its investigation of All Saints calling on the church to turn over potentially voluminous records or risk losing its tax-exempt status.The two lawmakers called on the IRS to “clarify its rules on political intervention so that tax-exempt organizations know what is and is not allowed,” in a letter today to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and IRS Commissioner Mark Everson. “We are unclear as to why statements that solely take an opinion on issues of the day are grounds for revocation of a tax exemption.”The letter also cites an “OMB Watch” report disputing the claims of a February 2006 IRS report in which the IRS lauds its own efforts of rooting out noncompliance of tax-exempt laws. The text of the letter is below.September 18, 2006The Honorable Henry Paulson Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20220 Commissioner Mark EversonCommissioner of the Internal Revenue ServiceU.S. Department of Treasury1111 Constitution Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20224Dear Secretary Paulson and Commissioner Everson:We are concerned about the impact that the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) Political Activity Compliance Initiative (PACI) has on tax-exempt organizations’ First Amendment right to address matters of public policy. This issue has been of great concern to us over the last year following reports of IRS investigations into the political speech of not-for-profit organizations during the 2004 election cycle. In one prominent case, in late October, two days before the 2004 election, a reverend delivered a sermon at the All Saints Episcopal Church in Pasadena, California on such public issues as the Iraq war, poverty and abortion. Following that sermon, the IRS contacted the church stating that the speech may have jeopardized its tax-exempt status. Unfortunately, this example is far from unique and similar investigations of tax-exempt organizations with varied positions on matters of public policy have been conducted. Criticism of the Administration’s civil rights agenda landed the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) an IRS investigation. Likewise, an investigation of the First Baptist Church of Springdale was initiated following a Fourth of July sermon given by the Church’s pastor that noted his support for the Administration’s positions on marriage and abortion. Despite the release of additional IRS guidance on political intervention, we are unclear as to why statements that solely take an opinion on issues of the day are grounds for revocation of a tax exemption. The “facts and circumstances” test that is used to determine if a violation has occurred is far too vague to ensure that not-for-profits understand their limitations on speech. Consequently, we have serious concerns that the PACI program could infringe upon the right to free speech for tax-exempt organizations. For this reason, we request the IRS to clarify its rules on political intervention so that tax-exempt organizations know what is and is not allowed.In February 2006, the IRS released a report about the success of its political intervention program, lauding it for its fairness and impartiality. The report noted that nearly three-quarters of the completed examinations have concluded that the tax-exempt organizations engaged in some level of prohibited political activity. The report also referenced the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration finding of no political bias in the selection of cases for examination. However, earlier this month, an advocacy group, OMB Watch, released its own report that found that the earlier IRS report exaggerated the extent of noncompliance. The OMB Watch report showed that the IRS claims of violation were based only on cases not dismissed after two rounds of investigations and that no violation was found in nearly two-thirds – 64 percent – of all completed investigations. We request that you address the disparities in these two reports.The actions of the IRS in this matter will have a potentially chilling impact on protected First Amendment rights. Your responsiveness to this letter will be critical in determining whether further congressional action is warranted. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely,ADAM B. SCHIFF Member of CongressWALTER JONESMember of Congress -30-
09.14.06	09.14.06 Congressman Schiff Applauds Sen. Menendez's Actions to Halt the Nomination of Richard Hoagland as the next U.S. Ambassador to Armenia Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) lauded Senator Robert Menendez’s (D-NJ) effort to block a vote on Richard E. Hoagland’s nomination to be the next U.S. Ambassador to Armenia. Yesterday, Senator Menendez put a hold on Mr. Hoagland’s nomination, preventing a Senate vote. Mr. Hoagland has been nominated to replace Ambassador John Evans who was recently pushed to retire from his post by the Bush Administration. Congressman Schiff and many of his Congressional colleagues believe Ambassador Evans was recalled for his comments made in February of 2005 in which he publicly recognized the Armenian Genocide. “Before the Senate confirms a new Ambassador to Armenia, Congress should know why Mr. Evans was recalled,” Schiff said. “It is unfortunate that the Administration refuses to recognize the deliberate murder of a million and a half people for what it was -- genocide. More than that, the Administration is firing an American diplomat for publicly recognizing the historic facts -- an effort was made to murder an entire people in the first genocide of the 20th Century, the Armenian Genocide. If the Administration has a legitimate reason for recalling Ambassador Evans it should provide Congress and the American people with a justification.”In May of 2006, Rep. Schiff urged Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to explain the decision to withdraw John Evans as U.S. Ambassador to Armenia. Congressman Schiff joined over 60 Members of the House in sending a letter to Secretary Rice asking for further clarification of Evans' recall. Congressman Schiff has also met with and pressed senior State Department officials to explain Evans’ recall. However, Secretary Rice and the Administration have refused to provide an explanation. Congressman Adam Schiff represents California's 29th Congressional District, including the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, Glendale, Griffith Park, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena, and Temple City. -30-
09.14.06	09.14.06 The Crisis in Iraq Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, Last Sunday Vice President Cheney appeared on NBC's "Meet the Press" and provided a vivid example of George Santayana's admonition that "those who do not learn from the past are doomed to repeat it." After 3 1/2 years of bloody combat; after our Nation has lost more than 2,600 of our military's finest; after thousands more of our brave men and women have been wounded; after we have spent more than $300 billion; with no end in sight to the insurgency and Iraq plunging into civil war; and after finding no weapons of mass destruction, the very basis of that war, the Vice President told the American people that "if we had to do it over again, we'd do exactly the same thing." Never mind that the next day the Washington Post published an article on the front page entitled "Situation called Dire in West Iraq: Anbar is Lost Politically, Marine Analyst Says," which revealed that the Marine Corps Chief of Intelligence had recently completed a report that concluded the prospects for securing Iraq's western Anbar province are "dim" and that there is almost nothing the U.S. military can do to improve the political and social situation there. According to Vice President Cheney, "if we had to do it over again, we'd do exactly the same thing." Never mind that our invasion of Iraq was predicated on the need to neutralize Saddam Hussein's active nuclear weapons program and destroy his stockpiles of chemical and biological weapons. But no weapons were ever found. According to Vice President Cheney, ``if we had to do it over again, we'd do exactly the same thing.'' Never mind that retired senior military officers, former U.S. diplomats, and a wide range of military and foreign policy experts see our efforts to pacify Iraq as undermined by a host of mistakes the administration has made in the prosecution of the war, including the failure to bring enough troops to secure the peace and the catastrophic decision to stand down the Iraqi army. According to our Vice President, ``if we had to do it over again, we'd do exactly the same thing.'' Never mind that our troops went into battle without adequate body armor and up-armored vehicles. According to the Vice President, "if we had to do it over again, we'd do exactly the same thing."Never mind that countless billions have been spent on reconstruction with little to show for the effort, many billions unaccounted for. According to Vice President Cheney, "if we had to do it over again, we'd do exactly the same thing."Earlier this year House and Senate Democrats unveiled our "Real Security" agenda that lays out a blueprint for a new direction in Iraq. Our plan calls for the establishment of full Iraqi sovereignty, provides for the responsible redeployment of our forces to better protect our troops and to facilitate the transfer of authority, and provides oversight, vigorous oversight, of the prosecution of the war and the reconstruction of Iraq. This new direction in Iraq was rejected by the Republican majority in the House, which has endorsed the President's stay-the-course policy in Iraq, a policy which amounts to nothing more than more of the same. The majority in this House is complicit in this failed policy through its failure to oversee the war and to hold accountable those officials who have failed our troops and the American people. That failure of oversight and the need to hold people accountable has plagued Iraq from the very beginning, and because this Congress, this Republican Congress, refuses to hold the President to account, we keep making the same mistakes over and over again. On April 26 of this year, in the International Relations Committee, I asked the administration witnesses in our first hearing on Iraq whether they could name any individual who had been held accountable for the myriad failures in prosecuting the war on Iraq. The witnesses were silent for an interminable 14 seconds before the Assistant Secretary of State replied, "That is way above our pay grade." The answer, however, is no one has been held accountable. That lack of oversight, the absence of accountability, the stubborn refusal to acknowledge that mistakes have been made has brought us to the precipice in Iraq. But as the Vice President revealed so clearly last week, the senior officials in our government still blithely insist, If we had to do it over again, we would do exactly the same thing. Our troops in Iraq, their families here at home, the families of those who have served deserve better than a stubborn insistence that all is well when it is not, that no mistakes have been made when there have been many, that no correction in course will be made because to do so would acknowledge error. That is unacceptable. The Democrats will provide a new direction in America. The Democrats will provide a new direction for our national security. There is no time more than now when a new direction is necessary.
09.13.06	09.13.06 Judiciary Committee Approves Issa/Schiff Legislation to Improve Patent Litigation in District Courts Washington, DC – The House Judiciary Committee today unanimously approved H.R. 5418, a bill to create a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The bill will establish a pilot project in at least five district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases while maintaining random assignment. Each of the test courts will be assigned a clerk with expertise in patent law or with the technical issues arising in patent cases. The bill will also allocate funding to provide educational opportunities for judges who opt-in to the program. “This proposed pilot project to help courts better adjudicate patent cases has garnered strong support from those in the patent community and unanimous support from Members of Congress who have considered its merits,” said Rep. Darrell Issa. “The support behind this legislation and should result in expedited approval on the floor of the House and the Senate.”“Patent litigation in the federal court system has become expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain,” Schiff said. “By providing our courts with the resources they need to carefully consider patent cases, we will ease the work load for our Federal Appeals Courts, which will ultimately save the American taxpayer money.”Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program.The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success.-30-
09.06.06	09.06.06 Congressman Schiff Writes to Senate Foreign Relations Committee Urging Opposition to Bolton Nomination WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff today sent a letter to Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Richard Lugar (R-IN) and Ranking Member Joseph Biden (D-DE) urging the committee to oppose the nomination of John Bolton to be the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee is scheduled to hold a vote on Mr. Bolton’s nomination tomorrow. Nineteen Democratic House Colleagues joined Schiff in signing the letter. “This Administration, like its predecessors, has a broad pool of talent to choose from in filling this critical post," Schiff said. "At a time when Iran is thwarting the will of the international community, North Korea is testing missiles, and the Middle East is a powder keg, Mr. Bolton has not demonstrated that he is the best choice for job. And we need the best."The full text of the letter is below.AASeptember 6, 2006The Honorable Richard Lugar Chairman Committee on Foreign Relations United States Senate SD – 450Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Joseph BidenRanking MemberCommittee on Foreign RelationsUnited States Senate SD – 450 Washington, DC 20510Dear Senator Lugar and Senator Biden:We write to respectfully request that the Senate Foreign Relations Committee report adversely Ambassador John Bolton’s nomination as U.S. Representative to the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador when it meets to consider the nomination on September 7 th. As you know, unless Ambassador Bolton is confirmed by the Senate, his service at the United Nations will end at the conclusion of the 109th Congress in January 2007.We had significant concerns about Ambassador Bolton’s suitability for the position as America’s UN Ambassador when his nomination was first considered by your committee last year. His deep-seated hostility to the United Nations as an institution, his skepticism about the utility of working with allies and others to solve international problems, his treatment of subordinates and the Administration’s unwillingness to hand over documents requested by the Committee were proper grounds for the Senate’s decision not to take up his nomination, thereby leading to his recess appointment by the President.Ambassador Bolton’s tenure in the United Nations over the last thirteen months has done little to allay our doubts about his suitability for the position as this country’s second most important diplomat. The United Nations has been gravely weakened by years of mismanagement and structural deficiencies. It is in serious need of reform and, as the largest contributor and host nation, the United States should be leading that reform effort. We do not believe that Mr. Bolton is truly committed to reinvigorating the UN to make it relevant in the 21st Century. We also believe that Ambassador Bolton lacks the requisite diplomatic skills and temperament to operate effectively at the UN.During this year’s consideration of a package of management reforms that the U.S., our allies and Secretary General Annan supported, Ambassador Bolton's conduct and belligerent style alienated key allies and proved ineffective, most visibly in the failure to make any progress on consolidating UN operations to make them more efficient and cost-effective. Similar tactics backfired during consideration of the new UN Human Rights Council and the lack of sustained American leadership resulted in a weakened council that the U.S. does not believe it can join.At a time when the United States and other Security Council members must work together to block Iran’s quest for the nuclear fuel cycle and build a lasting peace in Lebanon, we need a representative at the UN who is deeply committed to the multilateral diplomacy needed to effectuate a successful resolution of these crises. Unfortunately, Ambassador Bolton has a long record of hostility to working with other international actors and he has also expressed skepticism about whether the UN should have any role in peacekeeping efforts. We should be using our leading role at the UN to strengthen our alliances around the world to help combat terrorism, end longstanding regional conflicts, end the genocide in Darfur, confront global environmental challenges, and stop the proliferation of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons. There are a great many talented public servants who would make superb ambassadors to the UN and are held in great esteem here at home and around the world. Regrettably, John Bolton is not one of them. With all the depth of talent to draw upon for such a critical position, why should America settle for someone who is clearly not the best choice? We respectfully urge you to oppose his nomination and to ask President Bush to nominate a new Ambassador who can be both tough and effective. Sincerely,-30-
07.28.06	07.28.06 Schiff Works to Broaden Intelligence Oversight Washington, D.C. – Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA) joined Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) in introducing the Intelligence Oversight Act (H.R. 5954) – a bill to strengthen the process by which information regarding classified intelligence programs is made available to Members of Congress. “Members of Congress are entrusted with the responsibility to do vigorous oversight to ensure Americans' safety and to guarantee our freedom,” Schiff said. “We should not have to rely on the morning paper to learn about secret government programs, particularly when we sit on committees that are charged with overseeing such programs. Members of Congress must not remain in the dark, unwilling or unable to perform their Constitutional duties.”The Intelligence Oversight Act ensures that the requirements of the National Security Act are followed and that information regarding specific intelligence activities or programs is shared with those congressional committees that are charged with oversight. Yesterday, Schiff testified in support of the “NSA Oversight Act” – legislation he introduced in March to address the NSA’s domestic surveillance program – at a hearing of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. During his testimony, Schiff pointed out that most Members of Congress have still received no information on the NSA program outside of newspaper reports, including almost every member of the House Judiciary Committee which has jurisdiction over wiretap statutes, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), terrorism, and civil liberties. The Intelligence Oversight Act aims to address this problem. Reps. Schiff and Flake have previously teamed up to protect the civil liberties of Americans while ensuring that our national security needs are met. Last year, the two secured passage of an amendment to the Patriot Act to provide additional safeguards for library and bookstore records.Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
07.28.06	07.28.06 Supporting a Fair and Livable Minimum Wage Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express my disappointment that once again the Members of this House appear poised to let another opportunity pass us by that would have a meaningful impact in the lives of millions of American families. Today, we are voting on a bill that has been rushed to this House floor and purports to raise the Federal minimum wage. In reality, however, the bill before us seeks to muddy the waters about whether America's lowest paid workers deserve to make a living wage. In stark contrast to the bill before us today, Mr. Miller, the ranking member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, has introduced very simple legislation that would increase the Federal minimum wage to $7.25 per hour over the course of the next 2 years. This bill was introduced in May of 2005 and has yet to receive a hearing. The hastily drafted bill before us today, however, was only introduced earlier this afternoon, and the House leadership has brought it to the floor for a vote. This legislation adds unrelated and controversial provisions, that I'm sure some hope will end the debate and ensure that a meaningful increase in our minimum wage never takes place. We should instead, be voting today on a straightforward bill that simply raises the Federal minimum wage to a level that ensures that working families can emerge from the grasp of poverty. Before the House adjourns for the August recess, I believe we owe the American people a simple up-or-down vote on whether or not working Americans deserve a decent living wage. The current minimum wage of $5.15 per hour is not a living wage. It is not a wage on which single individuals, working full time, can adequately support themselves, and it is most certainly not a wage on which a single mother or single father can raise a family. Millions of hard-working Americans would directly benefit from a minimum wage increase. Some would argue that this would only benefit high school students and young adults who are being paid minimum wages on their first job at a fast food restaurant. In fact, more than 84 percent of workers who would directly benefit from a minimum wage increase are above the age of 20. In addition, nearly 60 percent of those individuals work full time, and 45 percent of them are married and/or have children. They are the victims of our inaction, Mr. Speaker. In many cases, it is our children who will suffer. I am ashamed that nearly 36 million Americans live in poverty in our country, and that nearly 13 million of those who live below the poverty line are children. With a very simple vote today--on a very simple piece of legislation--we could dramatically increase the physical, mental, and financial wellbeing of countless American children. No one who works for a living should have to live in poverty, and the children of these working families must not be made to suffer for our collective lack of moral conviction. I call on my friends on the other side of the aisle, and I ask them to partner with us to pass a meaningful increase in the Federal minimum wage. We must pass legislation that does not contain controversial provisions that divide us. Instead, we should speak with one voice, as one Congress, and tell working Americans that we value their work, that we understand their sacrifices, and that they deserve to make a living wage.
07.28.06	07.28.06 Two Schiff Proposals to Stop Internet Predators, Solve Murders Become Law Washington, D.C. – Two proposals by Rep. Adam Schiff became law yesterday: one to protect our children from on-line predators and another to help police solve difficult murder cases. These provisions were part of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act (H.R. 4472) signed into law yesterday by President Bush.“We hope these provisions will help many families already victimized by brutal crimes to see the perpetrators of those crimes brought to justice,” Schiff said. "The law will also help parents protect their children by giving law enforcement more tools to go after dangerous criminals.”Schiff joined Rep. Ted Poe (R-Texas) in authoring the “Training and Technology Amendment” to better equip law enforcement to stop Internet crimes against children. Schiff also joined Rep. Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA) in introducing the Justice for Crime Victims' Families Act (H.R. 4883), with its call to improve investigations of hard-to-solve cases, particularly those involving missing persons and unidentified human remains. These provisions were added to the bill signed by the President.H.R. 4472 is a comprehensive law that includes provisions from several bills that seek to improve sex offender registration, provide law enforcement resources to protect children, protect children from Internet predators, and prevent child exploitation and child pornography.Congressman Schiff is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch and a member of the House Judiciary Committee. He also served for six years as a federal prosecutor in Los Angeles. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
07.19.06	07.19.06 Condemning the Recent Attacks Against the State of Israel Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this resolution and of our friend and ally, the State of Israel. In May of 2000, Israeli forces withdrew from southern Lebanon, ending an 18-year presence that was intended to stop guerilla attacks on civilians living in northern Israel. Last summer Israeli settlers and military personnel left Gaza and part of the West Bank and turned over administration of those areas to the Palestinian Authority. The withdrawals were conciliatory gestures to Israel's Arab neighbors, and Israel and the international community expected the Lebanese Government and the Palestinian Authority to see them as opportunities to stabilize a region that has seen too much blood and tears over the last 60 years. Instead, successive Lebanese governments, hobbled by the oppressive presence of Syrian troops and intelligence officers, never made a concerted effort to reassert control in the south, and effectively ceded this area to Hezbollah, a radical Shiite militia trained, supplied, and directed by Syria and Iran. In Gaza, a corrupt and calcified Palestinian Authority would not make the necessary efforts to dismantle the infrastructure of terror that allowed terrorists to rain down Qassam rockets on Israeli civilians. When Hamas, a radical Islamist party that has never budged from its calls for Israel's destruction, swept into power in parliamentary elections in January of this year, it made no secret of the fact it would embrace a rejectionist policy towards Israel. Nevertheless, the Government of Israel and a majority of her citizens were determined to continue efforts to withdraw from large parts of the West Bank. It was this plan that was the centerpiece of Ehud Olmert's campaign for Prime Minister and which the new Prime Minister was seeking to implement in the coming months. Instead, in what can only be seen as a coordinated effort, Hamas and Hezbollah crossed Israel's internationally recognized frontiers to murder and kidnap Israeli defense force personnel on Israeli territory. At this stage four things are clear: First, these acts were not undertaken by rogue elements of Hamas and Hezbollah, but were the result of meticulous and lengthy planning. Second, while the attacks were launched from Gaza and Lebanon, the Governments of Syria and Iran were involved in their planning and execution, especially in the case of the Lebanon attack. Third, the murder and kidnapping of Israeli military personnel on Israeli territory by armed forces operating from a neighboring state or political entity is the root cause of the present violence. And, fourth, Israel has the legitimate right to take military action necessary to defend its citizens and its territory from attack. We mourn the loss of life. Lebanese, Israeli, and Palestinian, they are all the victims of Hezbollah and Hamas. I hope that Secretary Rice and her international counterparts will be able to pressure Iran and Syria to rein in these terrorist organizations and establish a legitimate Lebanese Army force to patrol the border with Israel.
07.18.06	07.18.06 Schiff Calls on Armenian President to Extradite a Glendale Murder Suspect Washington, D.C. – Late last week, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA), along with a group of 14 bipartisan colleagues, wrote to the President of Armenia requesting that Arthur Khanzadyan be returned to the United States to stand trial for the murder of Odet Tsaturyan. In the letter, the Members expressed their belief that Mr. Khanzadyan would be much more effectively prosecuted in the United States where full access to evidence and witnesses could be ensured. “There has been an outcry from the family and friends of Ms. Tsaturyan and the broader Armenian-American community that the individual responsible for the death of Odet Tsaturyan be brought to justice,” the letter states. “It is the belief of the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the Glendale Police Department that it is most appropriate that Arthur Khanzadyan return to the United States to answer for the crimes for which he has confessed. It is our belief that Mr. Khanzadyan would be much more effectively prosecuted in the United States where full access to forensic and evidentiary witnesses could be guaranteed. The crimes to which Mr. Khanzadyan has confessed took place in California, the families of both the victim and the suspect reside in Glendale, and all of the evidence collected in the case has been carefully documented by the appropriate local law enforcement agencies.”The full text of the letter is below. A pdf copy of the letter is available upon request.July 14, 2006His Excellency Robert KocharianPresident of the Republic of ArmeniaOffice of the PresidentMarshal Baghramian Avenue, 26Yerevan 0077, ArmeniaDear President Kocharian:The close working relationship between the governments of the United States and the Republic of Armenia is one of the cornerstones of the relations between our nations. Both of our countries share a bond that transcends the geographic distance between our borders. The rule of law, and the insistence that justice be swift, impartial and procedurally fair are values that both our nations are founded upon. In this spirit, we would like to bring an important issue to your attention and ask for your assistance.On September 6, 2005, Odet Tsaturyan, a young and vibrant member of the Armenian-American Community in Glendale, California was brutally strangled and placed in the trunk of her boyfriend’s car. While Ms. Tsaturyan’s parents frantically searched for their daughter in the days following her disappearance, the car was abandoned in a neighborhood in Azusa, California, and her body was not discovered for three days.Through forensic evidence and eyewitness testimony, the Glendale Police Department quickly identified the suspected killer as her boyfriend, Arthur Khanzadyan, who disappeared immediately after the homicide. Regrettably, however, in the days following the homicide, it was determined that Arthur Khanzadyan had fled the United States and returned to his native Armenia to avoid prosecution. Without the cooperation of the Armenian authorities in quickly apprehending Arthur Khanzadyan in Vanadzor, Armenia on November 11, 2005, Mr. Khanzadyan may have escaped justice altogether. Instead, he is currently being detained in Armenia and has confessed to the brutal murder of Ms. Tsaturyan.It has come to our attention that the trial date for Mr. Khanzadyan has been accelerated and may commence in the very near future in Armenia. While we applaud the work of the Armenian Prosecutor General’s office in their detention and efforts to build an effective case against Arthur Khanzadyan, we believe without full access to the evidence and all potential witnesses that an effective prosecution of Ms. Tsaturyan’s murderer could be in jeopardy.There has been an outcry from the family and friends of Ms. Tsaturyan and the broader Armenian-American community that the individual responsible for the death of Odet Tsaturyan be brought to justice. It is the belief of the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the Glendale Police Department that it is most appropriate that Arthur Khanzadyan return to the United States to answer for the crimes for which he has confessed. It is our belief that Mr. Khanzadyan would be much more effectively prosecuted in the United States where full access to forensic and evidentiary witnesses could be guaranteed. The crimes to which Mr. Khanzadyan has confessed took place in California, the families of both the victim and the suspect reside in Glendale, and all of the evidence collected in the case has been carefully documented by the appropriate local law enforcement agencies.We are aware that there is an established precedent of close cooperation between Armenia and the United States in cases that involve violent crime. There have been cases in the past where murder suspects have been returned to the United States from Armenia to face prosecution for their crimes. We are writing today to ask you to utilize whatever means are necessary to return Mr. Khanzadyan to the Untied States so that he can face charges and stand trial for the murder of Odet Tsaturyan. We would further ask that no action be taken in the prosecution of Mr. Khanzadyan in Armenia that would preclude his return to the United States to face murder charges here.Again, we applaud the history of cooperation between the Republic of Armenia and the United States. In the absence of a formal extradition treaty, our two countries have worked together in the past to effectively bring to justice individuals who would seek to avoid prosecution in the courts of the country where the crime has been committed by simply fleeing the country.We want to again thank you for the friendship of Armenia and the Armenian people, and I look forward to hearing from you regarding this very urgent matter.Sincerely, -30-
07.11.06	07.11.06 Schiff Invites Constituents to Participate in a Letter Writing Campaign to Raise Awareness and Call for Action to Stop the Genocide in Darfur Washington, D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) is inviting his constituents in the 29th Congressional District to participate in a letter writing campaign at “Camp Darfur” to raise awareness and call for action to stop the Genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan. Rep. Schiff will visit Camp Darfur, with individuals and the congregations of area churches to participate in timely and critically important letter-writing campaigns to elected officials about the atrocities taking place in Darfur.“Putting an end to the Genocide in Darfur is a moral imperative, and I hope my constituents join me in calling on our elected officials to step up their efforts to halt the bloodshed,” Schiff said. “We need to ensure that every elected official from the local level to the federal level is aware of the crisis taking place in Darfur and is doing their best to help work towards progress.”Rep. Schiff will personally deliver some of the letters to Administration and elected officials in Washington DC., and others will take them to Sacramento and city halls. The letters will ask elected officials to make Darfur a priority and emphasize how crucial it is that the United States takes proactive steps to stop the crisis.For several years Rep. Schiff has been involved in the effort to stop the Genocide in Darfur by cosponsoring legislation to crack down on the Sudanese government, helping to appropriate funds to help victims, and being among the first to urge the University of California to divest from the Sudan. In May, Rep. Schiff participated in a nationwide on-line town hall meeting with other Members of Congress regarding the Genocide in Darfur. He also hosted two town hall meetings about the Genocide at Pasadena High School and Glendale High School in early June. Both the town hall meetings were very well attended with 1,600 students participating at Pasadena High School and 1,200 students from Glendale High School attending. The town hall forum provided the students an opportunity to share their thoughts and ask questions about how best to work towards an end to the Genocide in Darfur. Who: Representative Adam Schiff, Members of Camp Darfur, and constituents of the 29th Congressional District.What: Letter writing campaign to elected officials asking them to make the Genocide in Darfur a priority and to raise awareness regarding this crisisWhen: Sunday, July 23, 2006, 12:30 P.M. Pacific TimeWhere: First Presbyterian Church, 2775 Lincoln Ave. AltadenaCongressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
07.06.06	07.06.06 Representative Schiff Cosponsors Major Energy Independence Bill WASHINGTON, DC - Leading House Democrats, including Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD), Rep. Adam Schiff(CA), member of the House International Relations Committee and, Rep. John Dingell (MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member, Rep. Jim Oberstar, Transportation Committee Ranking Member, Rep. Mark Udall (CO), co-chair of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, Rep. Stephanie Herseth (SD), Rep. Earl Blumenauer, member of the House Transportation Committee and Task Force on Livable Communities, and Rep. Rush Holt(NJ), unveiled a comprehensive energy independence bill entitled the "PROGRESS Act" today."We as a nation need to commit ourselves to achieving energy security in the 21st Century and the PROGRESS Act is our road map toward meeting this critically important goal," Rep. Schiff said. "Developing cleaner sources of energy and encouraging energy efficiency and conservation are crucial to the U.S. economy and to our national security and must be among our top priorities.""The issue of energy independence is too important to our children's future and our nation's future to sit idly by," Whip Hoyer said. "That is why we, in our continuing commitment to energy independence, have proposed the PROGRESS Act today. This bill is vital to our economic and national security, and to keeping America strong and secure into the future. We are leading America in a new direction, and that includes making our country energy independent. ""Rep. Hoyer has done a service to the country by offering a solid plan that will get America on track toward achieving energy independence," said Rep. Dingell. "Millions of vehicles already on the road are capable of operating on alternative fuels such as E-85. His proposal would give consumers the opportunity to use these fuels by ensuring they are readily available.""This bill will help save fuel by encouraging the greater use of alternative, fuel-efficient modes of transportation," Rep. Oberstar added. "It provides incentives for commuters to use mass transit, passenger rail, even bicycles. It also provides increased federal aid for the development of transit and passenger rail services."The PROGRESS Act has five major components:Establishing a National Energy Security Commission that would bring together government, industry and academic leaders to develop national goals that respect regional energy solutions and develop recommendations that Congress would have to act upon under expedited rules.Establishing a New Manhattan Center for High Efficiency Vehicles that would create an advanced vehicle efficiency consortium and commit a minimum of $500 million a year for ten years to federal alternative fuels and vehicle technology programs in the federal government.Establishing a National Biofuels Infrastructure Development Program that would reimburse private sector partners to share the costs of investing in the wholesale and retail biofuels pumps, tanks, and other related distribution equipment.Promoting Transit Use & Developing a Rail Infrastructure Program that would create a stimulus package of infrastructure investment that upgrades the pipeline for biofuels - the freight rail system - in order to get an affordable and reliable supply of biofuels to market.Ensuring Federal Government Leadership in the Use of the Alternatives to Oil by increasing the use of alternative fuels in federal and state fleets, developing biofuel plants in every region of the country, and speeding development of standards that are needed to promote alternative fuels use."The PROGRESS Act puts our energy security front and center, and with gas prices at an all-time high, I believe it's critical that Congress pass this legislation. I'm pleased that the bill includes provisions that were part of the Hoyer/Udall amendment to the Defense Authorization Act promoting alternative fuels in the military. We can't kick our dependence on foreign oil overnight, but we can - and must - build support behind sensible approaches to reduce foreign oil consumption through the development of alternative fuels, better vehicle efficiency, and public transit systems," said Rep. Udall.Rep. Herseth said, "I'm proud to support common sense legislation like the PROGRESS Act because we need to invest in homegrown sources of energy. Renewable biofuels like ethanol and biodiesel are not only a key way to reduce our dependency on foreign oil and strengthen our national security, but they represent an investment in the future of rural America. As patriotic Americans, we can be part of the solution to one of the biggest problems facing our country by making ourselves energy independent, and in the process, we can create new jobs and preserve our way of life in rural America."Rep. Blumenauer said, "Alternative fuels are an important step towards reducing our dependence on oil. But the best way to reduce our consumption of foreign oil and to save energy is provide choices for how we move around. Providing transportation networks that give families the option to take a train, bus, bike, or even to walk on their commute or daily errands is fiscally responsible, environmentally friendly, and will improve quality of life."WASHINGTON, DC - Leading House Democrats, including Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD), Rep. Adam Schiff(CA), member of the House International Relations Committee and, Rep. John Dingell (MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member, Rep. Jim Oberstar, Transportation Committee Ranking Member, Rep. Mark Udall (CO), co-chair of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Caucus, Rep. Stephanie Herseth (SD), Rep. Earl Blumenauer, member of the House Transportation Committee and Task Force on Livable Communities, and Rep. Rush Holt(NJ), unveiled a comprehensive energy independence bill entitled the "PROGRESS Act" today."We as a nation need to commit ourselves to achieving energy security in the 21st Century and the PROGRESS Act is our road map toward meeting this critically important goal," Rep. Schiff said. "Developing cleaner sources of energy and encouraging energy efficiency and conservation are crucial to the U.S. economy and to our national security and must be among our top priorities.""The issue of energy independence is too important to our children's future and our nation's future to sit idly by," Whip Hoyer said. "That is why we, in our continuing commitment to energy independence, have proposed the PROGRESS Act today. This bill is vital to our economic and national security, and to keeping America strong and secure into the future. We are leading America in a new direction, and that includes making our country energy independent. ""Rep. Hoyer has done a service to the country by offering a solid plan that will get America on track toward achieving energy independence," said Rep. Dingell. "Millions of vehicles already on the road are capable of operating on alternative fuels such as E-85. His proposal would give consumers the opportunity to use these fuels by ensuring they are readily available.""This bill will help save fuel by encouraging the greater use of alternative, fuel-efficient modes of transportation," Rep. Oberstar added. "It provides incentives for commuters to use mass transit, passenger rail, even bicycles. It also provides increased federal aid for the development of transit and passenger rail services."The PROGRESS Act has five major components:Establishing a National Energy Security Commission that would bring together government, industry and academic leaders to develop national goals that respect regional energy solutions and develop recommendations that Congress would have to act upon under expedited rules.Establishing a New Manhattan Center for High Efficiency Vehicles that would create an advanced vehicle efficiency consortium and commit a minimum of $500 million a year for ten years to federal alternative fuels and vehicle technology programs in the federal government.Establishing a National Biofuels Infrastructure Development Program that would reimburse private sector partners to share the costs of investing in the wholesale and retail biofuels pumps, tanks, and other related distribution equipment.Promoting Transit Use & Developing a Rail Infrastructure Program that would create a stimulus package of infrastructure investment that upgrades the pipeline for biofuels - the freight rail system - in order to get an affordable and reliable supply of biofuels to market.Ensuring Federal Government Leadership in the Use of the Alternatives to Oil by increasing the use of alternative fuels in federal and state fleets, developing biofuel plants in every region of the country, and speeding development of standards that are needed to promote alternative fuels use."The PROGRESS Act puts our energy security front and center, and with gas prices at an all-time high, I believe it's critical that Congress pass this legislation. I'm pleased that the bill includes provisions that were part of the Hoyer/Udall amendment to the Defense Authorization Act promoting alternative fuels in the military. We can't kick our dependence on foreign oil overnight, but we can - and must - build support behind sensible approaches to reduce foreign oil consumption through the development of alternative fuels, better vehicle efficiency, and public transit systems," said Rep. Udall.Rep. Herseth said, "I'm proud to support common sense legislation like the PROGRESS Act because we need to invest in homegrown sources of energy. Renewable biofuels like ethanol and biodiesel are not only a key way to reduce our dependency on foreign oil and strengthen our national security, but they represent an investment in the future of rural America. As patriotic Americans, we can be part of the solution to one of the biggest problems facing our country by making ourselves energy independent, and in the process, we can create new jobs and preserve our way of life in rural America."Rep. Blumenauer said, "Alternative fuels are an important step towards reducing our dependence on oil. But the best way to reduce our consumption of foreign oil and to save energy is provide choices for how we move around. Providing transportation networks that give families the option to take a train, bus, bike, or even to walk on their commute or daily errands is fiscally responsible, environmentally friendly, and will improve quality of life."-30-
07.06.06	07.06.06 Improving Health Through Stem Cell Research Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, it is a momentous event when a president vetoes a bill. It is a pronouncement that the lawmaking body of our federal government is in error and that the difficult lawmaking process has produced legislation not worthy of enactment. For the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005, nothing could be further from the truth. I was proud to have voted for H.R. 810 when it first came to the House Floor for a vote in May 2005, and I am proud today to vote to override the President's veto--the first veto of his Administration. A broad spectrum of lawmakers from both parties and all regions of the country recognize the extraordinary opportunity that stem cell research presents to treat and cure tragic diseases afflicting millions of Americans. Some of these potential treatments were only dreamt about a generation ago. Alzheimer's, paralysis, Parkinson's, diabetes--the list of possible applications for stem cell research goes on and on. For some of the victims of these diseases, stem cell research provides the only present hope for a cure. To use the President's first and only veto to effectively deny these citizens of their best hope is as tragic as it is wrongheaded. H.R. 810 carefully ensures that this research is conducted in a manner consistent with the highest ethical standards. There have been numerous times in history when a chief executive has denied the progress of science. We mark these times as setbacks for humanity, and we also recognize that in many cases, progress was only delayed, not curtailed. Despite the setback of this veto, the struggle will continue--both the struggle for Americans seeking to overcome disability and disease, and the struggle to support the scientific community in its quest to find the effective cures and treatments. I am confident that the American people will not allow this veto to forever impede the progress of science.
07.06.06	07.06.06 The United States and India Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I rise in support of this legislation and of the growing strategic partnership between the United States, the world's oldest democracy, and India, the world's largest. The hard work by Members and the staff on the IR Committee under the leadership of the chairman and ranking member have produced a bill that better attempts to address legitimate nonproliferation concerns and respects congressional authority to approve agreements. During the markup, the committee adopted an amendment I offered to minimize the risk that our nuclear exports would assist India's nuclear weapons programs. Under this amendment, the President would be required to submit to Congress a report on the steps he is taking to ensure our exports do not contribute to India's nuclear weapons program. In addition, my amendment declared that it is U.S. policy to encourage India not to increase its production of fissile material in military facilities. Taken together with the other statements by the administration, this amendment makes clear that it is U.S. policy to promote the prompt negotiation of a fissile material production cutoff treaty; that pending entry into force of such a treaty, to press for the earliest possible achievement of a multilateral moratorium to accomplish this purpose; and to urge India to refrain from increasing its rate of production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. Mr. Chairman, the final bill must contain these provisions, and I would ask my colleague and the manager of the bill, Mr. Royce, whether he can assure me that he will work to maintain these provisions and their stated intent in the final bill as the legislative process goes forward. Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield? Mr. SCHIFF. I yield to the gentleman from California. Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Chairman, yes. I supported the gentleman's amendment in committee, and I will work with him to maintain it in the final bill. Mr. SCHIFF. I thank the gentleman. Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield? Mr. SCHIFF. I yield to the gentleman from California. Mr. LANTOS. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the gentleman for his excellent work on this legislation, and I intend to work to keep this provision in the legislation. Mr. SCHIFF. I thank both of you gentlemen. I intend to support the legislation.
06.29.06	06.29.06 Supreme Court Ruling Casts Even More Doubt on NSA Surveillance Program Washington, D.C. – Today, the Supreme Court ruled 5-3 in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld that the President did not have the authority to set up the “military commissions” in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and that they are invalid. In analyzing the Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF) -- passed by Congress just days after the September 11th attacks -- to determine whether Congress provided separate and new authority to establish military commissions, the Court concluded that "there is nothing in the text or legislative history of the AUMF even hinting that Congress intended to expand or alter the authorization set forth in Article 21 of the UCMJ." It is equally plain that the Congress did not intend to amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ("FISA") when it passed the AUMF. As Schiff stated: “Since the Court has now ruled that the Authorization to Use Military Force ("AUMF") did not even provide the authority for the President to establish the military commissions to try Osama Bin Laden's bodyguard, how can the same measure be read to authorize the wiretapping of Americans on U.S. soil without court order?” Schiff has introduced the bipartisan "NSA Oversight Act" with Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) that would:Reiterate Exclusivity of Current FISA and Wiretap Laws - states that FISA and the federal criminal wiretap statutes shall continue to be the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance may be conducted.Clarify Military Force Statute - makes clear that the Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF), passed days after the September 11th attacks, does not provide an exception to FISA laws.Require Congressional Action - makes clear that current laws apply unless Congress amends the laws or passes additional laws regarding electronic surveillance.Require a Report on the Extent of the Wiretapping Program - requires classified disclosure to Congress of information about U.S. persons who have been the subject of any such warrantless electronic surveillance.-30-
06.29.06	06.29.06 Schiff Calls on Congress to Pass the Guantanamo Detainees Procedures Act of 2005 in the Wake of the Supreme Courts Decision on Military Tribunals Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) today issued the following statement in reaction to the Supreme Court’s 5-3 ruling that the President did not have the authority to set up the “military commissions” in Guantanamo and that they are invalid. The Court found that the military commissions were not expressly authorized by any congressional act and that “the Executive is bound to comply with the Rule of Law that prevails in this jurisdiction.”“I agree that the President cannot operate alone in this area without the involvement of Congress and the Courts. Today, I renew my call for action on H.R. 3038 -- the Guantanamo Detainees Procedures Act -- that would establish tribunals with clear standards and due process and would provide a timely process to charge, release, or repatriate the approximately 450 prisoners at Guantanamo. “Congress must ensure that justice is delivered swiftly and responsibly in order to punish terrorists, prevent future attacks, and ensure swift and just processing of those detained. The Congressional abdication of responsibility in this area over the last three years has resulted in a completely dysfunctional system for the detention of enemy combatants that has weakened our credibility with our allies and failed to meet our own constitutional standards.”Congressman Schiff first introduced legislation to authorize the detention of enemy combatants more than three years ago. He was the first House member to do so. The Guantanamo Detainees Procedures Act would:Provide that the executive branch has the authority to detain foreign nationals as unlawful combatants Provide a timely hearing before an independent military officer to challenge their designation as an unlawful combatant Require release/repatriation or initiation of formal charges within two years, unless the Secretary of State certifies that extraordinary circumstances requires additional time and sets out a factual basis for this decision Require the establishment of tribunals with clear standards and procedures designed to ensure a full and fair hearing for the detainee when formal charges are initiated. -30-
06.29.06	06.29.06 Congressman Schiff Speaks in Support of the Voting Rights Reauthorization Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to speak out of order. The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without objection, the gentleman from California is recognized for 5 minutes. There was no objection. Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, last week, the Republican leadership decided to pull the Voting Rights Act Reauthorization legislation from the floor. Debate on this historic civil rights statute had been scheduled for last Wednesday afternoon, and just hours before it was to start, the bill was withdrawn from consideration. As a cosponsor of this important bill, I am deeply troubled by the majority leadership's willingness to allow extreme members of their party to hijack reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act, a law that has protected minority voters from intimidation and discrimination for 40 years. It was an act unbefitting a party that calls itself the ``Party of Lincoln.'' The original Voting Rights Act reinforced the Constitution's 15th amendment guarantee that race cannot be a bar to any citizen's right to vote. Although the 15th amendment was ratified in 1870, it took nearly 100 years for Congress to give it teeth with the Voting Rights Act. Until then, the rights of millions of Americans to vote was nullified by poll taxes, literacy tests, voter intimidation, and outright violence. Only in 1965, with the passage of the Voting Rights Act, were African Americans finally able to exercise the right to vote. But the path to this legislation was by no means easy. On March 7, 1965, what has become known as Bloody Sunday, 600 civil rights marchers peacefully protested for the right to vote. Upon reaching the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, the marchers were attacked by State and local police, who tear-gassed them and beat them with batons. Three years ago, in commemoration of the struggle for civil rights, I joined a pilgrimage led by my colleague Congressman JOHN LEWIS through many of the sites that were part of the fight for true equality here in America. We visited the Edmund Pettus Bridge, and on the wall of my office is a picture of the delegation, black, white, Asian and Latino, standing together in celebration of the sacrifices of those who marched there. Standing there then and reflecting on the experience now, it is impossible to miss the transcendent importance of the unfettered right to vote. It was powerful enough then to garner the hatred of a mob of segregationists, and it inspires us now to continue to fight for reauthorization of the legislation and the full protections of our sacred franchise. I welcome a debate over the continuing vitality of the Voting Rights Act, but I deplore the delay which the Republican leadership's decision to pull the bill has occasioned. In the decades since President Lyndon Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law, racial discrimination is still far too prevalent a feature of elections across the Nation from California to Florida. It is very true that significant progress has been made in the past 41 years since the VRA was first passed, and minority voters have a much greater voice in the political process today because of the Voting Rights Act. Despite that, after every election, we still hear stories of voter discrimination and intimidation, and we are reminded that this legislation remains important today, and we cannot let the provisions of the VRA expire. These expiring provisions, pre clearance of election law changes for jurisdictions with a history of discrimination, Federal observers at polls, and language assistance for limited English speakers, are still needed to ensure minority voting rights. It is evident to those from my State of California just how critical, for example, language assistance is for those with limited English skills. We do not make our elections easy on voters. In a State where 135 candidates ran for Governor 3 years ago, it should be no surprise that during the 2004 general election, the California voter guidebook was nearly 200 pages. This guide included information on candidates and ballot measures that helped voters prepare for the election. Even native English speakers struggled to digest the ballot arguments in preparation for voting. For citizens with limited English proficiency, the task was all the more daunting. I believe all U.S. citizens should learn the English language. It is the key to upward mobility in our society and a powerful common bond. Yet new citizens still learning the English language have the right to vote. Thankfully, due to the VRA, our polling sites provide language assistance so that all citizens can meaningfully participate in the election process, including new citizens still struggling to master the English language. The right to vote for every American citizen is the foundation of our democracy. Unfortunately, there are still barriers to overcome, and we as a Nation must not give up on the protections that give content to that right. I am proud to support the Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and will continue to do my part to ensure that the VRA remains effective and enforced. For this reason, Mr. Speaker, I call upon the leadership to take immediate action to bring this legislation to the floor for a vote.
06.29.06	06.29.06 A Time of Hope for Nagorno-Karabagh Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, this week I had the pleasure of meeting with Nagorno-Karabagh's Foreign Minister George Petrosian and National Assembly Speaker Ashot Ghulian. I have long supported the right of self-determination for the people of Nagorno-Karabagh and greatly admire the efforts of the people of this historically Armenian region to build democracy and a market economy in the face of hostility from Azerbaijan. It is a time of hope for a resolution of the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict that has plagued the South Caucus for 15 years. The Armenian and Azeri leadership have, for several years, been negotiating to turn a ceasefire into a more durable peace. It is a process that has been long, tiring and frustrating. I applaud the persistence and commitment of the Nagorno-Karabagh authorities and the government of Armenia and I hope that all of their efforts are slowly, but surely, paying off. In the last week, the new U.S. Co-Chairman of the OSCE Minsk Group Matthew Bryza announced the framework of an agreement that Armenian and Azeri political leaders will soon discuss in an effort to settle the conflict once and for all. In a statement that was issued by the U.S. embassy in Yerevan yesterday, the Minsk Group's American, French and Russian co-chairs said the proposal envisages a self-determination referendum to be held in Karabagh after the redeployment of Armenian troops from Azerbaijani territories surrounding Karabagh. I hope that this announcement will clear the way for a brighter future for the Karabagh people and for the people of Armenia and Azerbaijan. It is a sad consequence of the war that Armenia and Nagorno-Karabagh have been subjected to a cruel and illegal blockade by Turkey and Azerbaijan, a blockade that continues to undermine the prospects for peace. Armenia and the government of Nagorno-Karabagh have persisted in looking for ways to ease regional tensions, but the Azeris have too often responded by walking away. It is also not helpful that Azerbaijan has persistently talked of a military build-up even as it ostensibly negotiates with the Karabagh and Armenia. Last December's desecration of Armenian khatchars in Azerbaij an also poisoned the atmosphere surrounding the talks. I am pleased that the Azeri hostility has not gone unnoticed by our government. Last Thursday, Deputy Assistant Secretary Bryza spoke to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. In response to a question about whether the conflict could resume, he said that it is from the Azeri side ``where you most often hear those sorts of threats.'' And in light of the oil revenues, he went on to say that ``It's really quite unhelpful make statements that imply that this increased wealth is going to lead to purchases of arms and military threats.''In my meeting with them, I told Foreign Minister Petrosian and Speaker Ghu1ian how much I admire their commitment to peace and their leadership. Too many families have lost loved ones as a result of this conflict. It has been far too long that displaced refugees have been homeless. We seem to be at a real turning point in the history of the Caucus region and I am proud that the United States is playing a significant role in the peace process.
06.28.06	06.28.06 Opposing Funding Cuts for NASA Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman for yielding, and I rise in opposition to this amendment, regrettably for my friend from New York. I also am a very strong supporter of the COPS program, like my friend from Alabama, a former prosecutor. I have always supported and continue to support the COPS program. But robbing one vital program to support another is not the answer. Representing Southern California, the home of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, I have seen the tremendous space science that has come out of our robotic exploration of Mars and out of the entire space program. This has manifest itself in health technology and telecommunications technology. It has had tremendous benefits to all of our constituents. I don't want to see that research go away. I don't want to see that space science go away. And already there are dramatic cuts and delays in some of the space sciences that we just cannot afford. We have to find a different way to fund the COPS program. Taking the money out of this vital NASA effort is not the answer, and I must oppose the amendment.
06.27.06	06.27.06 The Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press Calls on Secretary of State Rice to Urge Russia to Protect Journalist Rights Washington, D.C. – Representative Adam Schiff, co-chair of the Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, today wrote to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to ask her to call on Russia to take action to protect the independence and freedom of journalists in Russia when she meets with the Russian foreign minister next week. The letter also encouraged Secretary Rice to call on Russia to continue its investigation into slain journalist Paul Klebnikov’s murder and to prosecute all those responsible. The letter was co-signed by the other co-chairs of the caucus Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), and Seantor Richard Lugar (R-IN).“We formed the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press to create a forum to highlight and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world,” Schiff said. “I hope Secretary Rice will take this opportunity to raise our concerns over the murder of journalists like Paul Klebnikov, and our dismay over continuing efforts to censor Russia’s struggling press.”The full text of the letter is below.The Honorable Condoleezza RiceSecretary of StateU.S. Department of StateWashington, DC 20520June 27, 2006Dear Madame Secretary:We are writing to urge you to ask Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov to reaffirm the Kremlin’s commitment to democracy, human rights, and the rule of law when you meet with him next week in Moscow.As the co-founders of the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press, we are especially concerned about the persecution of journalists in Russia, which has been occurring with increasing frequency, severity, and impunity. An independent media is essential to maintaining the principle and practice of democracy, and the right of freedom of expression is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights, and other international agreements to which Russia is a part.The case of Paul Klebnikov, the Russian-American editor of Forbes Russia who was murdered in Moscow in July 2004, is a tragic example of the kind of murder of journalists that have gone unresolved under President Putin’s Administration. Klebnikov was a courageous reporter who revealed corruption but also celebrated democratic progress in Russia, and his murder reveals both the importance of objective reporting in Russia as well as the dangers faced by journalists in that country.Last month, on World Press Freedom Day, Paul Klebnikov’s widow, Musa, celebrated the launch of the Congressional Caucus for Press Freedom and spoke passionately of her late husband’s belief that without freedom of the press there is no civil society and can be no true democracy. Unfortunately, a Russian court acquitted two Chechen gunman who were thought to be the triggermen in this murder. Klebnikov family attorneys have filed court papers detailing numerous procedural violations committed during the trial by the presiding judge and defense attorneys, but trial protocols are being withheld and this appeal is not being considered by the Moscow City Court. We fear the Russian government simply wants this case to fade away. This cannot be allowed to happen.Mr. Klebnikov’s murder exposed the problem of violence against journalists in Russia and increased the awareness of widespread threats to press freedom there, but it is not an isolated case. Klebnikov was the twelfth reporter to be killed in mafia-style assassinations in direct reprisals for their journalism in Russia since President Putin came to power in 2000, and not one of the murderers has been brought to justice. Russian laws concerning the press also fall beneath European standards. Criminal libel legislation is still used to intimidate and persecute journalists who criticize the government or its allies.The Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press was created to highlight and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world. We urge you to call upon the Government of Russia to continue its investigation into Paul Klebnikov’s murder and to prosecute all those responsible. Furthermore, we ask that you take the opportunity of your upcoming meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov to ask for appropriate action to protect the independence and freedom of journalists in Russia.Thank you very much for your attention to this matter and your ongoing efforts to promote democracy and human rights around the world.Respectfully,REP. ADAM B. SCHIFF REP. MIKE PENCESEN. CHRISTOPHER DODD SEN. RICHARD LUGAR-30-
06.27.06	06.27.06 Schiff Strengthens Nonproliferation Provisions Washington, D.C. – The House Committee on International Relations today passed an amendment authored by Representative Adam Schiff that would ensure that the United States’ nuclear cooperation agreement with India – designed to improve safeguards on India’s civilian nuclear energy program – will not be used to facilitate India’s nuclear weapons program. The amendment was passed as part of the United States and India Nuclear Cooperation Promotion Act of 2006 (H.R. 5682), which makes way for a partnership between the United States and India on nuclear energy technology.“Before entering into any agreement involving nuclear energy our first priority needs to be guaranteeing that every safeguard possible is in place to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons,” Schiff said. “My amendment is designed to do just that. When we continue our work to cultivate improved cooperation in the field of nuclear energy, we must also endeavor to ensure that in improving relations with India, we do not undermine the global nonproliferation regime.”Rep. Schiff’s amendment asks the President to submit to Congress a report on the steps the U.S. is taking to ensure that nuclear energy cooperation will not assist India's nuclear weapons program -- directly or indirectly. In particular, the amendment calls for action to preclude the use of American technology or nuclear fuel in India’s weapons program. Once nuclear cooperation is underway, the amendment requires an annual report updating Congress on any diversion or nuclear assistance to India’s weapons program. The amendment requires the report to go beyond a narrow legalistic interpretation of assistance to the weapons program, and closes potential loopholes that could lead to inadvertent nuclear weapons assistance. -30-
06.22.06	06.22.06 Congressman Schiff Urges Secretary of State Rice to Support the Addition of Strict Guidelines on International Small Arms and Light Weapons Transfers WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff, late yesterday, sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging her to help reduce the international transfer of small arms and light weapons (SALW) to deadly conflict zones and terrorist organizations. Congressman Schiff’s letter, cosigned by 69 House colleagues, is being sent in advance of the United Nations meetings in New York from June 26-July 7 combating the proliferation of SALW. “The easy availability of SALW -- particularly assault rifles and shoulder-fired missiles -- in the post-Cold War era threatens our security and the lives of millions throughout the world,” Schiff Said. “Unlike the United States, many other governments do not strictly regulate these arms, and this has led to the arming of militias and death squads like the Janjaweed in Darfur. That’s why my colleagues and I are asking Secretary Rice to take advantage of this critical opportunity that could prevent terrorist from gaining access to these deadly weapons.”The full text of the letter is below.June 21, 2006The Honorable Condoleezza RiceSecretary of StateU.S. Department of StateWashington, DC 20520Dear Madame Secretary:This summer, the United States will be afforded a critical opportunity to help reduce the international transfer of small arms and light weapons (SALW) to deadly conflict zones and terrorist organizations. The United Nations will meet in New York from June 26-July 7 to review the implementation of the Program of Action (PoA) to combat the proliferation of SALW. We encourage you to use this opportunity to support the addition of strict guidelines on international SALW transfers.The easy availability of SALW in the post-Cold War era–particularly assault rifles and shoulder-fired missiles–threatens U.S. security interests and the lives of millions throughout the world. While the United States strictly regulates the international transfer of arms, many governments have weak or non-existent controls. The lack of controls has taken a tremendous human toll on those in areas most affected by armed violence. For example, thousands of SALW were transferred to Sudan in 2002 and 2003 from several countries in the Middle East and Asia despite arms embargoes imposed on Sudan by the United States and the European Union. The current violence and displacement in the Darfur region of Sudan has been fueled in part by easy access to SALW through these irresponsible arms transfers.While there are several multilateral and regional agreements guiding the international transfer of SALW, these agreements contain either varied or conflicting provisions. Many governments, especially in Asia and the Middle East, have not agreed to any regional or multilateral agreement. The U.S. has prudently supported strict SALW transfer standards in the Wassenaar Arrangement and the Organization for Security Cooperation in Europe, among others. Yet, the continued grave human impacts caused by the failure of some governments to transfer SALW responsibly make it necessary to push for strict global standards at the United Nations that leave less room for ambiguity.For the PoA to be most effective, it must define strict, clear guidelines for international SALW transfers. We encourage you to push for strict guidelines–-modeled on the United States’ own strong arms transfer laws and policies–-that would prevent: 1) SALW transfers that are likely to violate international or regional treaties, including arms embargoes; 2) SALW transfers that are likely to be used for terrorism and gross human rights violations; 3) SALW transfers that will negatively affect internal or regional peace and security; and, 4) SALW transfers that can be diverted for any of the above purposes.We urge you to take full advantage of this opportunity to further U.S. interests and security by strengthening international SALW transfer guidelines at the 2006 Review Conference on the U.N. Program of Action on the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons.Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter.Sincerely,-30-
06.20.06	06.20.06 Schiff, Flake, Inslee, Van Hollen Author Bipartisan Amendment to Prohibit NSA Surveillance on American Soil Unless Authorized by Law WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Adam Schiff today offered a bipartisan amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill that would block any funds from being used by the NSA and other Defense Department agencies for electronic surveillance in the United States unless the surveillance complies with Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) laws. The amendment was debated on the House Floor for over an hour and a half and a vote is expected on it later tonight. “Electronic surveillance of those seeking to harm our country must continue; it must also comply with the law,” Schiff said. “When Congress said the Administration must get court approval for domestic surveillance, we meant it. If the law needs to be revised to meet new challenges in the war on terrorism, the Administration should come to Congress and make the case for a statutory change.”Rep. Schiff’s amendment provides that the government must obtain a warrant when surveillance of Americans or others occurs in the United States. It does not prevent the Federal Government from fulfilling its duty to pursue al Qaeda and other terrorists with all available tools, including the use of electronic surveillance, to thwart future attacks and to destroy the enemy. Current FISA law allows the Administration to obtain wiretaps in a timely and confidential manner through a proper court of law, up to 72 hours after the surveillance begins. Earlier this year, Rep. Schiff introduced the NSA Oversight Act (H.R. 4976), which would clarify that FISA continues to be the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance may be conducted. The amendment is cosponsored by Representatives Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Jay Inslee (D-WA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD).-30-
06.15.06	06.15.06 Calling for an End to Impunity for Predators of Press Freedom Mr. Speaker, I rise today to mark the 18-month anniversary of a tragic event that is symptomatic of the deterioration of press freedom in the Gambia and elsewhere.On December 16, 2004, one of the most respected journalists in West Africa, Deyda Hydara, was shot in the head and chest by unidentified gunmen. He died instantly, but the repercussions of his murder sent a shock wave through media and human rights advocates throughout the region. Mr. Hydara co-founded the Gambia’s first independent newspaper and served as a foreign correspondent for a French newspaper and the media rights organization, Reporters Without Borders. Hydara's murder is just one incident in an alarming crackdown by Gambian authorities on the independent press. In July 2002 the government passed legislation requiring journalists and media organizations to register with a media commission for one-year renewable licenses. In September 2003, Hydara and three other independent journalists filed a lawsuit challenging the law in a case that is still pending before the Gambian Supreme Court. Two days before Hydara’s murder, the Gambian National Assembly passed a new round of repressive media legislation that imposed mandatory prison terms of six months to three years for any published work judged to be “seditious” and increased the scope of what might be deemed libelous. Hydara and other independent journalists had publicly opposed the law and Hydara had published an editorial denouncing it the day before he was killed. In the eighteen months that have elapsed since Deyda Hydara was killed, Gambian authorities have ignored calls for a thorough investigation into his murder. It is widely believed to have been politically-motivated and related to a string of similar attacks. Meanwhile, at least three journalists are currently detained in Gambia in violation of regional and international human rights law. I will be sending a letter to Gambian President, Mr. Yahya Jammeh, urging him to appoint an independent board of inquiry to investigate the murder of Deyda Hydara and improve protections for journalists and the principle of press freedom in his country. I would like to submit this letter for the record.Resistance to impunity is essential to maintain civil peace and demonstrate a commitment to democratic values. In a time when repeated anonymous attacks against media professionals have created tense relations between the state and the media in many countries, Deyda Hydara’s unrequited murder is deeply worrisome to those who are committed to democracy and justice in Africa. I hope that the Gambian Government will take this occasion to reverse its record on press freedom and set an example for the rest of the region.
06.14.06	06.14.06 Schiff Secures Funds to Improve Emergency Medical Care in Glendale Washington, DC – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today announced that the House Appropriations Committee passed a measure that includes funds for an emergency room expansion and equipment upgrades at Glendale Adventist Medical Center (GAMC). The bill is expected to pass the House next week. “This funding will benefit everyone in our community ensuring better access to emergency medical care,” Schiff said. “These resources will allow the Glendale Adventist Medical Center to keep up with the latest advances in medical technology – ultimately providing better medical care to its patients.” The funds were included in the Fiscal Year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. GAMC will receive $350,000 to assist in renovations that will double the size of its emergency room and to acquire upgraded medical equipment. These renovations and upgrades will help address a strain on access to emergency medical care in the region due to the recent closings of hospitals and emergency rooms in the area. GAMC has partnered with a local Federally Qualified Health Clinic to increase access to healthcare to the uninsured and underinsured population.Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
06.14.06	06.14.06 Schiff Secures Funds for Community Based Organizations in Pasadena that Help At-Risk Youth and the Homeless Washington, DC – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today announced that the House Appropriations Committee passed a measure that includes funds for family services and after-school arts education activities for low-income children in Pasadena. The bill is expected to pass the House next week. “The Armory Center and Union Station provide essential services to our youth and to the homeless population in our community. I am pleased that the Congress can play an important partnership role in supporting these important initiatives,” Schiff said. “These resources will help improve the lives of children and families in our community by providing them new hope and opportunity.”The funds were included in the Fiscal Year 2007 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. Included in the bill is $150,000 for the Union Station Foundation of Pasadena for its Family Center Program. The funds will be aimed at benefiting school-aged children through after-school activities, tutoring, and medical care. The services provided by the Family Center Program are also directed toward offering homeless families the resources they need to transform their lives to become self-supporting. Additionally, the Armory Center for the Arts of Pasadena will receive $50,000 for its Walk to Art program. The Walk to Art program offers free after-school and weekend art workshops that reach over 4,000 low-income children and youth each year. Walk to Art is taught by professional artists at libraries, parks, schools, community centers, and social service agencies, and it serves low-income neighborhoods in order to provide kids an opportunity they would otherwise not have to participate in arts activities.Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
06.08.06	06.08.06 House Judiciary Committee Passes Schiff Amendment to Provide Greater Privacy Protection Through Increased Congressional Oversight Washington D.C. – The House Judiciary Committee yesterday took up a bill that would require federal agencies to inform the public of the impact on personal privacy of any proposed regulations. The legislation would require agencies to provide notice about the collection of personal data stemming from any proposed rules and protect that data from misuse. The bill will provide agencies with an exemption from this requirement when national security is at risk. Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) authored an amendment that would protect Americans’ privacy by granting Congress greater oversight authority when a national security waiver is used to withhold public disclosure. “There is no greater priority than ensuring our nation’s security, but I am confident that we can protect our country without sacrificing our civil liberties,” Schiff said. “From stolen Veteran Affairs data files to data mining of phone records, far too many reports lately have centered on Americans’ privacy being compromised. It is clear that more protections need to be put in place to safeguard our privacy and my amendment will do just that.”The Federal Agency Protection of Privacy Act (H.R. 2840) would require federal agencies to inform the public of any proposed policy changes. However, when policy changes have national security implications, such as banking records or photo ID requirements, the legislation would permit federal agencies to waive or delay public disclosure. Congressman Schiff’s amendment would require federal agencies to share information, in classified form, with the House and Senate Judiciary Committees any time an agency waives disclosure requirements due to national security concerns. Congressman Schiff’s amendment and H.R. 2840 both passed the House Judiciary Committee, and now this legislation awaits consideration on the House Floor. Congressman Schiff co-founded the Democratic Study Group on National Security and is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House International Relations Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. Schiff is proud to represent California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
06.07.06	06.07.06 Schiff Secures Funds in House Bill for Asian Youth Center of San Gabriel Washington, DC – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today announced the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the Judiciary, and District of Columbia has agreed to provide funds to renovate the Asian Youth Center (AYC) of San Gabriel. The measure now must be approved on the House and Senate floors and then sent to the President to be signed into law. “As a long-time mentor through the Big Brother program, I know first-hand how successful youth centers can be in helping at-risk youth to develop and achieve their full potential,” Schiff said. “I am pleased that this funding will enable the Asian Youth Center to improve the services it provides to help ensure our next generation is guaranteed a brighter future.”“The Asian Youth Center is grateful to Congressman Adam Schiff for the long-term impact that this grant will bring to our agency and the community,” said May To, Executive Director of the Asian Youth Center. “Facility expansion will allow AYC to house additional staff, provide additional services, reach more youth and help move the next generation of Americans toward successful adulthood.”The appropriation measure includes $75,000 for the AYC to renovate, improve and furnish its 6,000 square foot youth center facility. The AYC is a 16-year-old, community-based, non-profit organization with a mission to meet the emerging education, social service, and health needs of low-income, at-risk, and immigrant youth in Los Angeles County. Their initiatives and services are provided in Chinese (Cantonese and Mandarin), Vietnamese, Spanish, and English to more than 5,000 youth annually. AYC provides youth services at its youth center in San Gabriel, a children’s annex building in San Gabriel, a satellite office housed in a Los Angeles City Cypress Community Center, and 20 on-site elementary, middle, and high schools.Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
05.25.06	05.25.06 Bipartisan Legislation, Coauthored by Congressman Schiff, to Combat Computer Crimes and Ensure Data Security Passes Judiciary Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Coming just days after reports of stolen Veterans Affairs data - what may be the nation’s largest ever information security breach - the House Committee on the Judiciary today passed the “Cyber-Security Enhancement and Consumer Data Protection Act of 2006” (H.R. 5318). The bipartisan bill, coauthored by Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA), would better combat cyber crime and protect data security. In an era of increasingly sophisticated computer technology, H.R. 5318 would provide better data security protections for both individuals and businesses and would give law enforcement the tools they need to successfully track and prosecute cyber criminals. “Criminals are increasingly using new technologies to prey upon their victims,” Schiff said. “As they adapt to these new opportunities to defraud, we must develop better ways to track them down and put them away. This legislation will help better protect American consumers and businesses from the costly effects of cyber crime and identity theft.”The “Cyber-Security Enhancement and Consumer Data Protection Act” would:Strengthen existing law by making it a crime to access the personal information of individuals and by placing an added responsibility on companies to report to law enforcement when sensitive data has been compromised; Provide the Department of Justice greater latitude to investigate and prosecute cyber crimes, particularly those operating in Eastern Europe and Asia; Call for stricter penalties for those who are found guilty of computer crimes;Provide additional federal funding to the Secret Service, FBI, and Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute cyber crimes.Schiff joined Reps. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Howard Coble (R-NC), Deborah Pryce (R-OH), Lamar Smith (R-TX), and Tom Feeney (R-FL) in coauthoring the bipartisan measure.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles and is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He is also Co-Chair of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus as well as a member of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
05.24.06	05.24.06 Working Toward Better Outcomes for Children in Foster Care Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, this week I introduced the Fostering our Future Act of 2006, along with my colleague, the distinguished gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms. Hart). This is a bill to help our Nation's foster youth by strengthening dependency courts and requiring accountability. Foster care is a critical safety net for half a million abused and neglected American children. It is, however, a system in need of support and reform. 20 percent of all foster kids will be forced to wait over 5 years for a safe, permanent family. Even worse, almost 20,000 older youth age out of the system without the assistance of a permanent family every year. Frequent foster home transfers create turbulence and insecurity that heighten the emotional, behavioral and educational challenges faced by these youth. The doubling of the foster care population since the early 1980s compounds this problem by creating enormous caseloads and taxing the capacity of foster homes. The end result is that foster kids through no fault of their own are more likely to experience homelessness, unemployment and other life course problems despite their resilience and courage. Imagine what it is like to be 8 years old, neglected by your parents and then taken away from them. You are told that you must live with a family that is not your own. You would be confused by court proceedings that govern your future and frightened that you might be transferred to yet another home. You would certainly feel alienated from your peers who talk about mom and dad. Imagine what that must feel like. These children deserve better. They should be guaranteed physical and emotional safety. They should have continuing relationships with caregivers and loved ones. They should have an informed voice in the legal decisions made about their lives. And they should enter adulthood prepared to live a happy, healthy and productive life. We have a responsibility to these children to meet these goals. Anything less is unacceptable. Practitioners and policy experts have conducted thorough analyses and advanced proposals to overhaul the foster care system. The most prominent example, a comprehensive 2004 report by the bipartisan Pew Commission on Children in Foster Care identified several areas where the Federal Government could support these kids by strengthening the Nation's foster care systems. The Pew Commission found that State dependency court systems were failing to sufficiently track cases and train personnel, because they do not receive Federal funds to do so. Inner-agency collaboration and performance measurement where they exist have been inconsistent both within and between States and tend to focus on bureaucratic needs rather than outcomes. I was pleased earlier this year when under the leadership of the Ways and Means chairman of the subcommittee, Mr. Herger, the committee passed legislation that included $100 million in new funding to improve our foster care system. These funds have been allocated to improve juvenile and family courts, help track and analyze caseloads, train judges and other court personnel and bolster collaboration between State courts and State child welfare agencies. While this is a critical first step, it is time we implement the rest of the court-related provisions recommended by the Pew Commission, and this legislation we introduced will do exactly that. Our State foster care system struggled to retain qualified dependency attorneys who are often burdened by substantial debt. A recent survey found that one-third of practicing dependency attorneys graduated with over $75,000 in outstanding loans, and 44 percent of them currently owe more than $50,000. High turnover among dependency attorneys has led to a dearth of experienced lawyers who have a comprehensive understanding of the system and maintain valuable relationships with their young clients. The Fostering Our Future Act that we are introducing responds to these shortcomings. It encourages Statewide interagency collaboration and data sharing. It ensures effective representation is available to children and families. It establishes a loan forgiveness program to attract and retain qualified child welfare attorneys. And most importantly, by focusing on child welfare outcomes, this legislation will keep the needs of children and families rather than the needs of bureaucracies front and center. I commend the child welfare workers of America for the invaluable services they provide and for constantly struggling to get this issue the attention it deserves. Foster care plays a crucial role in the Nation's child welfare safety net, but it is in desperate need of change and support. I call on my colleagues to join us working for the day when all of our Nation's children are protected, nurtured and loved. And I invite you to join me in that quest by co-sponsoring the Fostering Our Future Act of 2006.
05.22.06	05.22.06 Schiff, Hart Introduce Bipartisan Fostering Our Future Act Washington, DC – In recognition of National Foster Care Month, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Melissa Hart (R-PA) today announced they have coauthored the bipartisan Fostering our Future Act, (H.R. 3758) a bill that will strengthen America’s foster care system.“This nation has an obligation to our most vulnerable children that we are not meeting,” said Schiff. “Substantial reforms of the foster care system have been recommended by the Pew Commission and Congress should act now to ensure a better outcome for our children.”“It is clear that the current foster-care system is not serving our children as well as it should,” said Congresswoman Melissa Hart. “We must act now to provide the resources and support these children need to be placed with loving and safe families.”A 2004 Pew Commission report found that nearly 20 percent of the 500,000 children in foster care wait over 5 years for a safe, permanent family. The doubling of the foster care population since the early 1980s has created enormous child welfare caseloads and taxed the capacity of the system. The result is a growing population that is more likely to be homeless and unemployed throughout their lives.To help solve these foster care problems this legislation includes provisions that support foster care court systems while demanding accountability. Specifically, the bill:Provides loan forgiveness to full-time dependency attorneys who agree to remain in their jobs for at least three years;Requires a GAO study to compare state procedures and establish best practices;States courts should enable children and parents to participate in their own proceedings; States judicial leadership should use performance data to ensure accountability and allocate resources wisely;Calls on law schools, bar association, and law firms to help build the pool of qualified dependency attorneys.Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
05.19.06	05.19.06 Schiff Secures Funds for Research Efforts at the Childrens Hospital Los Angeles and Arroyo Seco Watershed Study Washington, DC – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today announced the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy & Water has agreed to provide funds for research to be conducted at the Childrens Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA) and for the Arroyo Seco Watershed Study. The Energy & Water appropriations bill is expected to pass the House next week. The appropriation measure also includes $250,000 for Children's Hospital Los Angeles. These resources will assist pediatric cancer research and help with early diagnosis and individualized cancer treatment for kids.“There is nothing more heartbreaking than watching a child struggle with cancer or other serious illness,” said Schiff. “The research at CHLA is nothing short of miraculous and is saving lives. I'm delighted the federal government can partner with this important effort.”As part of the bill, the Arroyo Seco will received $200,000 in Army Corps of Engineers General Investigations funding for its Watershed Management Plan Feasibility Study. The Arroyo Seco Watershed Management Plan is a project supported and coordinated by the County of Los Angeles to develop a comprehensive, environmentally friendly approach to manage the Arroyo Seco Watershed. The project is supported by the Arroyo Seco Foundation, North East Trees, the California Coastal Conservancy, the Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority, and the cities in the watershed.“This funding will help ensure that the Arroyo Seco returns to its natural state - an environmental gem,” Schiff said. “Once it’s restored it will provide enjoyable open space and recreation areas for generations to come.”Congressman Schiff has introduced a "Kids First" agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. He is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
05.19.06	05.19.06 Issa and Schiff Introduce Legislation to Improve Patent Litigation in the District Courts Washington, DC – Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and Rep. Adam Schiff (D-CA), today, announced the introduction of H.R. 5418, a bill to create a pilot program to enhance the expertise of district court judges hearing patent cases. The bill will establish a pilot project in at least five district courts where judges will have the choice of opting-in to the new program to hear patent cases. Each of the test courts will be assigned a clerk with expertise in patent law or with the technical issues arising in patent cases. The bill will also allocate funding to provide educational opportunities for judges who opt-in to the program. “Roughly forty percent of all patent cases in federal district courts are reversed and ultimately decided by the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Rep. Issa. “This legislation is designed to help courts reduce errors that lead to appeals.”“Patent litigation in the federal court system has become expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain,” Schiff said. “By providing our courts with the resources they need to carefully consider patent cases, we will ease the work load for our Federal Appeals Courts, which will ultimately save the American taxpayer money.”Under the legislation, if a judge opts-in to the new program and a patent case is randomly assigned to that judge, that judge keeps the case. When a case is randomly assigned to a judge in a district with the pilot program who has not opted to hear patent cases, that judge has the choice of keeping the case or referring the case to the group of judges who have opted-in to the program.The core intent of the pilot program is to steer patent cases to judges that have the desire and aptitude to hear patent cases, while preserving the principle of random assignment to help avoid forum shopping. The pilot project will last no longer than 10 years, and periodic studies will occur to determine the pilot project’s success.“Prior to coming to Congress, I was part of a number of patent suits. I was often struck by the fact that many district court judges either knew little of the applicable law, or were bored by the subject matter involved,” said Issa. “Patent litigation often costs litigants over $10 million and can inject crippling uncertainty into a business. This legislation will help courts and help businesses and individual inventors who patent ideas.”H.R. 5418 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee and the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property on which Rep. Issa and Rep. Schiff sit.-30-
05.18.06	05.18.06 A Comprehensive Approach to Protecting the Homeland Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, for much of our history the United States has not feared a direct attack. The vast expanses of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans allowed our young Nation to survive and thrive safe from the predation of the great powers of the 19th Century, and the growth of our military power in the 20th Century reinforced the belief that no hostile power could strike us here at home.Only the British, nearly two centuries ago during the War of 1812 have mounted a sustained military campaign on American soil. Japan attacked both Hawaii and Alaska during World War II, but was unable to carry out a major ground offensive against the United States.Our relative physical isolation fostered a sense of the invulnerability of the American people. Our borders with Canada and Mexico were relatively open, and we traditionally welcomed foreigners to our shores both as visitors and immigrants.Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, American policymakers viewed terrorism as primarily a Middle Eastern and European problem. Even when the targets were Americans the acts themselves took place abroad. The hijacking of TWA 847, the Rome and Vienna airport massacres, the La Belle discotheque bombing, the seizure of the Achille Lauro and the bombing of Pan Am 103 resulted in hundreds of American casualties, but they all took place overseas.This reinforced the deeply held belief that terrorists would not strike in this country. As a result, our Government at all levels was not configured to deal with terrorism, nor was the phrase ``homeland security'' part of our national lexicon.During the 1990s terrorism came to America. The 1993 truck bombing of the World Trade Center began to rouse us from our complacency, and the Oklahoma City bombing 2 years later shocked Americans into the realization that mass casualty terrorism could happen here.The fact that the Oklahoma City bombing was an act of home-grown terrorists, however, mitigated the sense of urgency that should have spurred Congress and the executive branch to take serious action to prepare for an act of international terrorism on our shores.So, Mr. Speaker, our Nation did not see the gathering clouds for what they were, and America remained complacent. The September 11, 2001 attacks shattered that sense of security. Through the tears and their anger the American people demanded action. And the President and Congress promised swift and comprehensive measures to safeguard our Nation.In the 4 1/2 years since 9/11, the Federal Government has undergone a massive reorganization centered on the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, and a reorganization of the American intelligence community.Government buildings and other high-value targets are now ringed by concrete barriers. Aviation security has been Federalized, foreign visitors are routinely fingerprinted and photographed upon entry into the United States. Law enforcement has been granted greater authority to monitor the activities of people it considers potential terrorists.But to what end? Are these measures and hundreds of others making us safer? The answer, Mr. Speaker, is that in some ways we are safer now than we were on September 11. In other ways we are not safer. And we are not nearly as safe as we should be and as we could be.Numerous commissions and investigations at the Federal, State and local level, as well as a multitude of private studies have pointed to broad systemic and other flaws in our homeland security program.Tonight I have a message for the American people. The Democrats have a plan to better secure our homeland. Our plan is tough and smart and it is comprehensive.This plan is part of an overall effort to reconfigure America's security for the 21st Century, a plan that we call Real Security. Several weeks ago Members of our party from both the House and the Senate, Minority Leader Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Reid, and others unveiled a comprehensive blueprint to better protect America and to restore our Nation's position of international leadership.Our plan, Real Security, was devised with the assistance of a broad range of experts, former military officers, retired diplomats, law enforcement personnel, homeland security experts and others, who helped identify key areas where current policies have failed and where new ones were needed. In a series of six Special Orders, my colleagues and I have been sharing with the American people our vision for a more secure America. The plan has five pillars, and each of our Special Order hours has been addressing them in turn.The first, building a military for the 21st century. The second, the steps to winning the war on terror. Third, protecting our homeland. Fourth, a way forward in Iraq. And, fifth, energy independence for America.Three weeks ago, we discussed the first pillar of our plan, building a military for the 21st century. We discussed the need to rebuild our state-of-the-art military, to provide the best equipment and training to our troops, to assure accurate intelligence and a strategy for success, to build a GI bill of rights for the 21st century, and to strengthen the National Guard.Last week, we discussed a comprehensive plan to win the war on terror which focused on a wide range of strategies to destroy the threat posed by Islamic radicalism. We outlined steps to destroy al Qaeda and finish the job in Afghanistan, to double our special forces and improve intelligence. We talked about how we will eliminate terrorist breeding grounds, the preventative diplomacy and new international leadership that must be brought to the cause in the war on terror; our goal of securing loose nuclear materials by 2010, probably the most urgent national security threat we face and stopping the nuclear weapons development in Iran and North Korea.In the coming weeks we will be discussing a new course in Iraq to make sure that 2006 is a year of significant transition to full Iraqi sovereignty, with the Iraqis assuming primary responsibility for securing and governing their country with the responsible deployment of U.S. forces. Democrats will insist that Iraqis make the political compromises necessary to unite their country, defeat the insurgency, promote regional diplomacy, and strongly encourage our allies and other nations to play a constructive role. Our security will remain threatened as long as we remain dependent on Middle Eastern oil.The fifth pillar and the one with the far-reaching ramifications for our country and the world is to achieve energy independence for America by 2020.The real pillar of security that I will be addressing tonight with my colleague David Scott, the gentleman from Georgia, is the one that most directly touches on the lives of ordinary Americans. Since 9/11, the lives of Americans have been changed by the new reality of the need to secure the United States and the American people here at home. As I have just said, most experts have concluded that there are huge gaps in our preparations and that we need a new strategy to secure America. Tonight, we will introduce you to our plan.When Democrats are in charge, we will immediately implement the recommendations of the independent bipartisan 9/11 Commission, including securing national borders, ports, airports, and mass transit systems. We will screen 100 percent of our cargo bound for the U.S. in ships and airplanes at the point of origin, and secure and safeguard America's nuclear and chemical plants, its food, and water supplies. We will prevent the outsourcing of critical components of our national security infrastructure such as our ports, our airports, and our mass transit. We will provide our firefighters, emergency medical workers, police officers, and other workers on the front lines with the training, the staffing, the equipment and the cutting-edge technology that they need. And we will protect America from the biological terrorism and pandemics including the avian flu by investing in public health infrastructure and training public health workers.Providing real homeland security requires taking a pragmatic and comprehensive approach that uses resources to effectively maximize security and balances our offensive and defensive efforts. At any given time, we have to make hard choices about how to spend our national security dollars. The Democratic plan directs resources to those areas that minimize the risk of a terrorist attack. We rejected the reactive mentality that too often plagues the Federal bureaucracy of planning against the last attack. Under real security, we will integrate our foreign and domestic security efforts, balancing the projection of power abroad with securing the country at home. Central to this will be the implementations of the recommendations of theÐ9/11 Commission.This commission was one of the most effective bipartisan commissions in ourNation's history. It had access to some of the most experienced professionals and influential experts on homeland security. The commissioners weighed a wide range of issues, including emergency preparedness, transportation, critical infrastructure, and first responders and made sensible and sweeping recommendations to the administration and to Congress.Unfortunately, the administration's performance on implementing these recommendations has been un im pressive. In fact, in December of last year the 9/11 Commission Public Discourse Project, made up of the members of the commission, issued a report card on its progress. The report card was filled with Cs, Ds, and Fs for the administration's implementation of the 9/11 recommendations.In a statement accompanying the report card, Chairman Thomas Kean, a Republican, and Vice Chair Lee Hamilton, a Democrat, said, ``Many obvious steps that the American people assume have been completed have not been. Some of these failures are shocking.''What we have seen over the last 4 years, Mr. Speaker, has been a failure of leadership and a failure of initiative.I would now like to yield time to my colleague, a leader on national security issues, the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Scott).Mr. SCOTT of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman. As always, it is indeed a pleasure to join you on the floor of our very distinguished Congress of the United States to address what is without a doubt the most pressing issue facing the American people, and that is security of our Nation, national security, homeland security.I think it is very important for us to make the first step, to show that we as Democrats are indeed not only strong on security, but we are the stronger party on security.Our legacy, our history is rich. We have built this military all the way through Democratic Presidents, from World War II with Franklin Delano Roosevelt, through the Korean War with Harry Truman, through all of the crises that we have had with Lyndon Johnson, with John Fitzgerald Kennedy; and with Bill Clinton leaving this Nation with a tremendous surplus and built a military that was capable of moving and being able to handle any threat in the world.But then 9/11 came and then President Bush's response. And I am here to say tonight that the American people deserve much better than what we have gotten in that response from President Bush and this Republican-led Congress. Let us review for a moment 5 years.Five years ago, 9/11 took place. And what has happened since that time? Can we say we are safer? Are our ports safer today? Obviously they are not, for not only do you and I and the rest of America know that only 5 percent of our cargo is being checked, the whole world does. The President's response to checking our ports was to turn the security over to a company that was owned by a country, the United Arab Emirates. That was one of only three countries in the world that recognize the Taliban as the ruling authority in Afghanistan.At a time when our young men and women were dying and are dying and putting their lives on the line fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan, our President, this administration, so cavalierly says let these people guard our ports, a nation that we had from our intelligence that proved to be the central banking process that handled the financing of al Qaeda and other terrorists coming through that country; yet this was the country that owned the company Dubai Ports to handle security at our ports, a country that we know from our intelligence that was the cross-trading ground for shipping nuclear material, building fusion material into Iran, who has subsequently said they want to knock Israel off the face of the Earth and then turn and do the same to the great Satan, the United States of America. That has been that response on the port security.And as Democrats have tried to do time and time again since then, to rein that in, joined by Republicans, we were successful in defeating that move, that very foolish and unwise move made by the President and this administration. And then, as we turn then to one of the worst disasters, perhaps the worst natural disaster in the history of this country, the very first opportunity for this Nation to be responsive to the major threat to homeland security, when Hurricane Katrina rolled in, another disturbing, disappointing, mismanagement, incompetence, and failure of the worst kind that resulted in the loss of over 2,000 American lives, billions and billions of dollars of loss and damage, farms and crops out of place, energy costs zooming, all because of slow mismanagement that we have not been able to recapture our place to this day.FEMA, the lead organization in homeland security, a total F in response. And right to this day, exactly 14 days before the next hurricane season begins, we do not even have not just an executive director of FEMA, we don't even have a regional director of FEMA in the Atlanta region, my home base, in the region which will be most devastated by a natural disaster and the hurricanes.And in that region, while I am at it, the response has been, even to reorganizing our military, even to realignment of our military bases, to take the primary base that trains, that deploys all of the National Guard and first responders in the event of a terrorist attack or a hurricane threat, a hurricane hitting this country at Fort Gillam. Instead of responding and building that base up, this administration comes in and recommends that that base be closed. And yet when Katrina hit, where did they have to turn? The only bright spot we had in the whole response to Katrina was to come and take our first responder commander, General Honore, and dispatch him down to the scene. Total mismanagement in every single aspect of response to our homeland security.Now here we are with a great threat to our borders, which, quite honestly, is perhaps the single most aspect of our own threat to not just homeland security but our national security, untold numbers, thousands of undocumented illegal immigrants sneaking into this country putting extraordinary downward pressure on our wage system, and providing in a way a very serious threat to the basic social services infrastructure of this country.But it just didn't happen overnight. Where has this administration been? Why are the American people so upset? Why are the polls so low in the face of these Republicans and this administration? It is obvious: slow response, mismanagement. And nowhere is it more exacting and exemplary than with the response to Katrina, a threat to our homeland, and a response to our border security. And that is what is happening.What is the response? Now it is because in this budget that they get on the floor and they are clapping about that they passed, a budget that cut homeland security by over $6 billion, a budget that would not fund the 1,000 border agents that the 9/11 Commission and a bipartisan group of us Democrats and Republicans in this Congress have recommended. And then to take and overtax the overextended National Guard that has been overextended in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in responding to our hurricanes, and to say now we are going to put them on the border. Too little, too late of the wrong type. And how hypocritical.How hypocritical to take 6,000 of our National Guard and put them on the border, but to cut the funding for an additional 1,000 to 2,000 border agents that actually need to be there? The American people want some answers to that. That is not an adequate response. America deserves better, and I assure you that Democrats are going to give them better.Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Georgia for his comments and for all of his work in this area.The gentleman highlighted the lapses that we saw in homeland security with Katrina, which I think were all the more graphic with the fact that we could literally see Katrina coming. Now, with infinite ways to perpetrate a terrorist attack, we may not see it coming in exactly the form it takes, and if we were not better prepared as a Nation for the hurricanes we could see coming, it gives me great concern about those attacks we do not foresee with that degree of precision.These failures in the preparation and response to Katrina were also, I think,the result of a failure of initiative. The report of the bipartisan congressional committee that investigated the response to Katrina, in fact, was entitled ``A Failure of Initiative.'' The report cataloged a series of errors in judgment and in planning, including a failure to prepare for a catastrophic event, a failure to execute the National Response Plan, a failure to evacuate New Orleans and other vulnerable areas, and a lack of information sharing and coordination. We were not prepared for a natural disaster that gave us several days of advance notice. We are even less likely to be prepared for a isaster, natural or man-made, that strikes us suddenly.Under our Real Security plan, the Department of Homeland Security would develop a comprehensive national emergency preparedness and response plan that spells out the responsibility for government and private agencies at every level. While the Department of Homeland Security had a response plan before Katrina, it lacked the details about coordinating various agencies and jurisdictions, and it was not treated seriously even within the bureaucracy.For example, a review by the Joint Chiefs of Staff found that the National Response Plan did not even specify the role of the Pentagon and other Federal agencies in assisting local leaders during disasters.In addition, a GAO report found that the National Guard units that responded to Katrina had only 34 percent of their authorized equipment, which also slowed their response.These, I think, are some of the failures my colleague from Georgia alluded to, and these are also I think incumbent on the party in power in Congress to do its oversight, to make sure that we are prepared, to hold the executive accountable.We have not done that oversight. We did not do it before Katrina. We have not done it adequately since, and under Real Security, it not only requires organizational changes within the executive, but also requires Congress to step up to its responsibilities, would you say?Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Absolutely, and I will tell you another example of the lack of response as well.When we look at our military and the overextension of our military, all of our generals are saying that, and we have got to listen to them. They are the ones that we have in place to be able to run the military and be able to execute our programs, to maintain and keep us safe.Now, we in this Congress, for example, have just allocated the money and the space for 17,000 additional National Guardsmen, and what did this administration do? Cut it, at a time when we have our National Guard so overextended.As you have been, I have been to Iraq and as I have been to Afghanistan, and I might say at the outset here that our soldiers are doing an extraordinary job. My hat's off to them, and it is just a pleasure to just get on a plane and fly over there into Kuwait and into Baghdad as we have done and into Afghanistan and Kabul and to see them do their job under most extraordinary circumstances and the sacrifices that their families are making.But this administration and this Republican-led Congress, to not fund them at the levels that the military leadership is asking us to and to have them go on two and three tours of duty and then come back here and to shortchange them in their training operations, that they took 2 weeks periods of times in rotation, to go and provide and do paperwork on the border security, quite honestly sometimes feels insulting to me, and our military deserves better. We have got to strengthen our military.Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlemen, and these issues and the others we will continue to explore in the coming weeks as we further amplify Real Security.Let me just end on this note. I had lunch with one of the Guardsmen from my district who served in the war in Iraq. He described to me how they had to put sheets of plywood and sandbags in to fill the doorways in their humvees because they did not have up-armored vehicles for their runs. The fact that our Guard have to go to those lengths, part of the Real Security plan that I outlined earlier was making sure our troops have the best equipment possible. We have not lived up to that standard. That is going to change under Real Security.Mr. PRICE of Georgia. Or you go into junk yards, they are scrapping metal just to give them some body armor. That is despicable. That is never going to happen again. We are going to make sure of that.Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman.
05.17.06	05.17.06 Schiff Calls on Egyptian President to Release Political Opponent from Jail and Promote Democracy Washington DC – Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today, wrote a letter to Egyptian President Muhammad Hosni Mubarak asking him to release democracy activist and opposition politician Ayman Nour from jail. Nour is serving a five year sentence for forgery. Representative Frank Wolf (R-VA) cosigned the letter to President Mubarak.Mr. Nour, leader of the al-Ghad party, ran for President of Egypt against Mr. Mubarak on a platform that called for greater democracy and freedom in Egypt. His prosecution on forgery charges was seen by independent observers as an attempt by the Mubarak government to enhance its political position by discrediting a secular, democratic opponent. In January 2005, Rep. Schiff authored a resolution condemning the arrest of Mr. Nour and called on the Egyptian government to release Mr. Nour immediately. The resolution was passed unanimously by the House International Relations Committee in March 2005. Rep. Schiff also sent a letter to President Mubarak in January 2006, in the immediate aftermath of Mr. Nour’s conviction, asking for the Egyptian president to free the opposition politician.“President Mubarak and the Egyptian government have shown great leadership in the quest for peace in the Middle East, but they have dragged their heels when it comes to the political reform that is crucial if Egypt is to remain a regional leader,” Schiff said. “When authoritarian regimes in the Middle East marginalize secular democratic opposition, all that may be left are the radical Islamist movements. We must not stand idly by and watch Egypt take steps that undermine democracy and human rights.”The text of the letter is below.May 17, 2006His Excellency Muhammad Hosni MubarakPresident of the Arab Republic of Egypt'Abedine PalaceCairo, EgyptDear President Mubarak:We write to again express our deep concern over the continued imprisonment of opposition politician Ayman Nour as well as the more general crackdown on secular proponents of greater democracy in Egypt. As you well know, Mr. Nour, the founder and president of the al-Ghad party, stood for President of Egypt in last fall’s elections. As a candidate, Mr. Nour espoused democratic values, with a strong emphasis on constitutional reform to limit the powers of the executive and open Egypt’s presidential elections to multiple candidates. Despite having been arrested on forgery charges, jailed and subsequently released on bail in the months before the elections, and with the prospect of a trial hanging over him in the weeks following, Mr. Nour finished in second place with 7 per cent of the vote according to Egyptian government figures and 13 per cent by independent observers.On December 24, 2005 Mr. Nour was sentenced to five years in jail, following a trial on the forgery charges. Independent observers widely hold that the government’s intent in prosecuting him was to enhance its political position by discrediting a secular, democratic opponent. That misgiving is heightened by the fact that the judge in the Nour case was Adel Abd al-Salam Gomaa, who in 2002 presided over the trial of American University in Cairo professor Saad Eddin Ibrahim, another outspoken advocate for democratic reform in Egypt.The Nour case is part of a disturbing pattern of backsliding on democracy by your government in recent months. Much has been made by Egyptian officials about the constitutional changes that the parliament implemented to open last year’s elections, but a change of law is hollow if it is not upheld in practice. While last year’s elections were more open than some in the past, there were widespread allegations of political intimidation, ballot-stuffing, multiple voting, and illegal campaigning by the ruling National Democratic Party. These allegations have been strengthened in recent weeks by two magistrates, Mahmoud Mekky and Hesham Bastawisi, who have accused the NDP of rigging the outcome of last year's parliamentary elections. We understand that the judges face possible prosecution and removal from the bench and believe that this would be a serious blow to the Egyptian judiciary’s efforts to assert its independence.The standoff over the judges has led to clashes between police and democracy advocates in Cairo. Egyptian democrats and other observers view these confrontations, the Nour conviction and the arrest of other regime opponents as a concerted effort to atomize the secular opposition. This backlash against the opposition was aggravated by the recent decision by the parliament to continue the state of emergency that was imposed on the country after the assassination of President Sadat in 1980.We are acutely aware of the raft of terror attacks that have killed and wounded so many Egyptians in recent years, especially in the Sinai Peninsula. As we in the United States still grapple with the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks, we understand the delicacy of the balance between security and freedom. However, we believe that your government has made a serious mistake in targeting its democratic opponents, while allowing Islamists to gain power and assume the role as the sole alternative to the NDP. Throughout many meetings that we have had with Egyptian officials over the years, we have been told over and over that Egypt’s number one security concern is Islamic radicalism, yet you have chosen to destroy the political movement that provides the only alternative to Islamism.It is our understanding that Mr. Nour’s appeal will soon be heard by the Court of Cassation and we hope that this will result in Mr. Nour being cleared of the charges against him and released. Should the Court of Cassation uphold the verdict of the trial court, we respectfully request that you pardon Mr. Nour on compassionate grounds as he is in frail health. We also urge you to work with the judiciary to allow it to perform its essential function. Your nation is blessed to have such courageous and patriotic jurists, who are willing to fight for the principle of the rule of law. Finally, we urge you to ask parliament to reconsider its decision to extend the state of emergency for another two years. We believe that it is neither conducive to augmenting internal security, nor consistent with your pledge to democratize Egypt.Mr. President, Egypt is one of the world’s great civilizations; it is a longstanding ally of the United States; it is a key player in the search for peace between Israel and the Palestinians; and it is the traditional leader of the Arab world. We urge you to build upon your commitments of last year and thereby strengthen Egypt and boldly chart a new path for your people and millions more in the Middle East.Sincerely, ADAM B. SCHIFF Member of Congress FRANK R. WOLFMember of Congress-30-
05.12.06	05.12.06 Schiff is Original Coauthor of Bipartisan Legislation to Combat Computer Crimes and Ensure Data Security Washington DC – Representative Adam Schiff today announced that he has joined in introducing bipartisan legislation that would better combat cyber crime and protect data security. In an era of increasingly sophisticated computer technology, the “Cyber-Security Enhancement and Consumer Data Protection Act of 2006” (H.R. 5318) would provide better data security protections for both individuals and businesses and give to law enforcement the tools they need to successfully track and prosecute cyber criminals. “Criminals are increasingly using new technologies to prey upon their victims,” Schiff said. “As they adapt to these new opportunities to defraud, we must develop new ways to track them down and put them away. This legislation will help better protect Americans and American businesses from the costly effects of cyber crime and identity theft.”The “Cyber-Security Enhancement and Consumer Data Protection Act" would:Strengthen existing law by making it a crime to access the personal information of individuals, and by placing an added responsibility on companies to report to law enforcement when sensitive data has been compromised. Provide the Department of Justice greater latitude to investigate and prosecute cyber crimes, particularly those operating in Eastern Europe and Asia. Call for stricter penalties for those who are found guilty of computer crimes.Provide additional federal funding to the Secret Service, FBI, and Department of Justice to investigate and prosecute cyber crimes.Schiff joined Reps. James Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Howard Coble (R-NC), Deborah Pryce (R-OH), Lamar Smith (R-TX), and Tom Feeney (R-FL) in introducing the bipartisan measure.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles and is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He is also Co-Chair of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus as well as a member of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
05.11.06	05.11.06 Schiff, Biggert Host Meeting with Chief Justice of the United States John G. Roberts, Jr. Washington, D.C. – Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Judy Biggert (R-IL), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch, today hosted a meeting for House members with Chief Justice of the United States John G. Roberts, Jr. and James C. Duff, who will shortly take over as the Director of the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. The meeting was part of an ongoing effort by the Caucus to improve the relationship between the legislative and judicial branches of our federal government. Today’s meeting was the 5th meeting in a series of discussions the Caucus is hosting with Supreme Court Justices, state court judges, and other members of the judiciary in hopes of fostering a better working relationship between the courts and Congress. The Caucus previously met with the late Chief Justice William Rehnquist, Supreme Court Justice David Hackett Souter, Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor, and a group of state Supreme Court Justices.“Our meeting with Chief Justice Roberts was candid and productive, and I want to thank him for taking the time to meet with us today,” Schiff said. “We are committed to continuing efforts to restore the comity between our two branches. It is my hope that we can work together to support a strong and independent judiciary.”“The fact that the Chief Justice is taking the time to meet with members of the House so early in his first term is a very good sign,” said Biggert. “We appreciate learning his perspective on a variety of issues, and I’m hopeful that the exchange was as helpful to him as well. We indicated that the doors of the House are always open to him and his colleagues on the Court.” Reps. Schiff and Biggert earlier this year introduced the Federal Judicial Fairness Act of 2006 (H.R. 5014) which would reform the outdated compensation system for federal judges. The goal of the bill is to keep highly-qualified, experienced judges from leaving the bench because of current pay inequities.Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and sits on the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.Congresswoman Biggert is a former probate lawyer who began her legal career as clerk to the Honorable Luther M. Swygert, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. She serves on the Education and Workforce, Financial Services, Science, and Standards of Official Conduct committees. Biggert’s Illinois Congressional district stretches from the southern half of DuPage County to northern Will County and includes a small portion of southwestern Cook County.-30-
05.11.06	05.11.06 Schiff Amendment to Address the Threat Posed by Improvised Explosive Devices Passes in the House Washington DC – The House today unanimously approved Representative Adam Schiff’s (D-CA) amendment to require the Secretary of Defense to submit quarterly reports to Congress regarding the threat posed by IEDs and the efforts being undertaken to eliminate such a threat as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 5122). Rep. Schiff introduced the amendment in reaction to continuing news reports dating back to the beginning of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan that have highlighted the catastrophic dangers associated with improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and continuing concerns over the Defense Department’s response to the problem. H.R. 5122 passed the House this afternoon. “These bombs kill American troops almost every day; no effort should be spared to stop them,” Schiff said. “I am please my colleagues supported my amendment and I am confident this legislation will help protect our troops from the devastating effects of improvised explosive devices.” The amendment will require each report to include information regarding every incident involving the detonation or discovery of an IED in that past 90 days. In accessing the threat posed by the IEDs in Iraq and Afghanistan the report will include the following:Any work being done by any office in the Department of Defense or by military department that focuses on countering IEDs; Any countermeasures being used and their success rate; Any evidence of assistance by foreign countries or other opposition forces; A list and summary of information or reporters developed by the Department of Defense and Armed Forces on counter-IED efforts; The status of any and all efforts within the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces to research, develop, test, and evaluate countermeasures and what is being done to speedup their introduction. Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
05.11.06	05.11.06 Protecting Our Troops from IEDs Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Chairman, I want to thank the chairman and the ranking member for working with me on this amendment, and I in particular want to thank you for all of your diligence in making sure that we have the best equipment and that the Pentagon is doing everything else possible to interdict and to defend against these improvised explosive devices. We have all been to the funerals of our constituents that were lost in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of them have been lost through improvised explosive devices. I think it is the number one cause of American deaths in Iraq, and I think three out of the four families that I have gotten to know that have lost loved ones in Iraq were killed by IEDs. They have been responsible for 38 percent of all U.S. deaths in Iraq, including those from non-hostile causes, for every month since May of 2005. Through Sunday, IEDs caused 790 American deaths in Iraq, representing a third of all U.S. fatalities since the start of the war. Clearly, the Iraqi insurgents have learned to adapt to U.S. defensive measures by using bigger, more sophisticated and better concealed bombs. In the first few months of the insurgency, IEDs were often little more than crude pipe bombs that used old-fashioned wire detonators. Now they are sometimes made with multiple artillery shells, Iranian explosives, and rocket propellant. Gone are the days of wire detonators that were easy to spot. IEDs are now detonated by cell phones or a garage door opener and other devices. They range in size from massive explosives capable of destroying 5-ton vehicles to precision-shaped charges that tear through armored vehicles. IEDs have also become, unfortunately, a greater problem in Afghanistan where, according to analysts, Taliban and al Qaeda forces have been studying the lessons learned by the insurgents in Iraq. Over the past several months, American and NATO forces have been the victim of roadside bombs that previously we had just seen in Iraq. So, Mr. Chairman, to the chairman of the committee and the ranking member, I very much look forward to working with you on this issue. I appreciate your willingness to work on this amendment.
05.10.06	05.10.06 Statement of Representative Adam Schiff on the House Judiciary Committee Passage of the Voting Rights Act Extension Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on the Judiciary passed the Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 2006. This legislation extends, for 25 years, the historic Voting Rights Act (VRA) that was signed into law in 1965 to ensure that minority citizens are able to elect representatives of their choice without fear of discrimination or intimidation. The following is the statement made by Representative Adam Schiff in support of the bill during the debate in the House Judiciary Committee. Representative Schiff is a cosponsor of the legislation.“I am proud to be a cosponsor of this important legislation, and I am honored to play a role in reauthorizing such a historic civil rights statute. This critical legislation has been responsible for ensuring that minority citizens are able to elect representatives of their choice. “Just over forty one years ago, on March 7, 1965 – what has become known as Bloody Sunday – 600 civil rights marchers peacefully protested for the right to vote. Upon reaching the Edmund Pettus Bridge, these marchers were attacked by state and local law enforcement officers. In commemoration of this event, two years ago, I joined a pilgrimage led by my colleague Congressman John Lewis through many of the sites of the civil rights struggles, and we visited that bridge. “Standing there then and reflecting on the experience now, I can still feel the power yielded by the right to vote. It was powerful enough then to garner the hatred of a mob of segregationists, and is still influential enough now to continue to incite debate over the legislation today. “Decades since those civil rights activists were beaten with billy clubs and sprayed with tear gas in response to their demands for the right to vote, discrimination still remains pervasive in elections across the nation, from California to Florida. However, significant progress has been made in the past 41 years since the VRA was first passed. Minority voters have a much greater voice today because of the VRA. Despite that, after every election, I still hear stories of voter discrimination and minority intimidation and realize that this legislation remains equally important today and cannot let the temporary provisions of the VRA expire. “These expiring provisions – pre-clearance of election law changes for jurisdictions with a history of discrimination, Federal observers at polls, and language assistance for limited-English speakers – serve to deter those seeking to weaken minority voting rights. It is evident to those from my state of California just how critical language assistance is for those with limited English skills. In this diverse state, 51 of the 53 congressional districts are subject to language assistance requirements.“We don’t make our elections easy on voters. In a state where 135 candidates ran for governor three years ago, it should be no surprise that during the 2004 general election, the California voter guidebook was nearly 200 pages. This guide includes information on candidates and ballot initiatives and helps voters prepare for an election. Looking at this book when it arrived in the mail, I was able to predict the stories I would hear from my constituents. But it wasn’t just from those with limited English skills, countless native English speakers shared with me how confusing voting was, how difficult it was to decipher 200 pages of content in preparation for voting. I can only imagine that it would be nearly impossible for a voter with limited or no English proficiency. Yet these citizens, too, have the right to vote. Thankfully, due to the VRA, in my district, our polling sites provide language assistance for Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Vietnamese and Latino voters. "The right to vote for every American citizen is the foundation of our democracy, and unfortunately, there are still barriers to overcome and we as a nation are not ready yet to give up on this legislation that defends every American’s right to vote. For this reason, I am proud to support the Voting Rights Act Reauthorization and Amendments Act and will continue to do my part to ensure that the VRA remains effective and enforced.” -30-
05.09.06	05.09.06 Schiff Offers Amendment to Address the Threat Posed by Improvised Explosive Devices Washington, D.C. – Reacting to continuing news reports dating back to the beginning of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan that have highlighted the catastrophic dangers associated with improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and continuing concerns over the Defense Department’s response to the problem, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) today will offer an amendment in the House Rules Committee that would require the Secretary of Defense to submit quarterly reports to Congress regarding the threat posed by IEDs and the efforts being undertaken to eliminate such a threat. If the Rules Committee makes the amendment in order, it will be considered on the House Floor tomorrow during debate on the National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 5122).“I remain concerned that the Pentagon has not moved with the urgency it must to address the continuing devastation of improvised explosive devices,” Schiff said. “These bombs kill Americans almost every day; no effort should be spared to stop them.”The amendment would require each report to include information regarding every incident involving the detonation, discovery, or defeat of an IED in that past 90 days. In accessing the threat posed by the IEDs in Iraq and Afghanistan the report would include the following:An update on the technology and innovations being used in the design of IEDs;Information on the tactics employed by the enemy in terms of the placement of IEDs;Information on the tactics and technology used by the enemy to detonate IEDs;Any evidence of assistance by foreign countries or other opposition forces.Lastly, the amendment would require the report to include information regarding the U.S. military’s ability to defend itself when encountering IEDs. The report must also include details regarding: the percentage of HUMVEES in Iraq and Afghanistan that are armored; the effectiveness of armored HUMVEES; the status of any effort aimed at improving the protection against IEDs; and any obstacles getting in the way of the implementation of any newly designed protective measures.Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
05.03.06	05.03.06 World Press Freedom Day Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, today is World Press Freedom Day, a time set aside to honor the work and sacrifice of journalists around the world. I believe that freedom of the press is vital to American national security and to our democracy here at home. Today, my colleague from Indiana, Mr. Pence, and Senators Chris Dodd and Richard Lugar joined me in launching a new bipartisan, bicameral caucus aimed at advancing press freedom around the world. The Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press creates a forum where the United States Congress can work to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world. The launch of this new caucus sends a strong message that Congress will defend democratic values and human rights wherever they are threatened. This evening, Mr. Pence and I hosted an event here in the Capitol to commemorate World Press Freedom Day. We were honored by the presence of Musa Klebnikov, the widow of murdered American journalist Paul Klebnikov, the editor of Forbes Russia who was gunned down on a Moscow street in July of 2004. A Moscow court is due to hand down a verdict against the alleged triggermen tomorrow, and Mrs. Klebnikov spoke movingly about continuing her late husband's work of helping the Russian people by working with them to build an independent press. In launching this new caucus, we have been encouraged by the wide range of organizations and individuals such as Reporters without Borders, Freedom House, and the Committee to Protect Journalists, which have all enthusiastically endorsed this effort. But I was most gratified to receive a letter of support this morning from Walter Cronkite, the longtime CBS News anchor who is not only an American icon but a living symbol of the positive force that journalists can have in shaping our lives. Freedom of the press is so central to our democracy that the Framers enshrined it in the first amendment of our Constitution. At the time, there was little in the way of journalistic ethics; and newspapers were filled with scurrilous allegations leveled at public figures. Even so, our Founders understood its importance to advancing our experiment in democracy. Throughout our history, journalists have jealously guarded their rights and American courts have, in the main, carved out broad protections for the press. In the United States, the press operates almost as a fourth branch of government, the Fourth Estate, as it is called, independent of the other three and positioned as watchdogs of our freedom. The United States, as the world's oldest democracy and its greatest champion, has a special obligation to defend the rights of journalists wherever and whenever they are threatened. A free press is one of the most powerful forces for advancing democracy, human rights, and economic development, so our commitment to these larger objectives requires active engagement in the protection and the promotion of this freedom. These are difficult and dangerous days for reporters around the world. According to the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists, 47 journalists were killed in 2005, most of whom were murdered to silence or punish them. While last year's death toll was lower than the 57 deaths in 2004, they were well above the yearly average over the last two decades. But too many have paid the ultimate price just for doing their jobs. Daniel Pearl was the Wall Street Journal's South Asia bureau chief and was on his way to an interview with a supposed terrorist leader when, on January 23, 2002, he was kidnapped by a militant group that claimed that he was a spy. For weeks, speculation persisted about his fate, until his decapitated body was found in a shallow grave outside Karachi in late February. In Algeria, Mr. Mohamed Boualem Benchicou, the former editor of Le Matin, was given a 2-year prison sentence for being too outspoken. He has been held in El Harrach prison for the past year as his health deteriorates and members of his newspaper staff are routinely subject to interrogation by Algerian authorities and also to judicial harassment. Raul Rivero Castaneda is one of Cuba's best known dissident journalists. Over the years, Mr. Rivero has paid dearly for his commitment to providing Cuban citizens with independent, unbiased information. In March 2003, Rivero was arrested and charged with ``acting against Cuban independence and attempting to divide Cuban territorial integrity,'' writing ``against the government,'' organizing ``subversive meetings,'' and collaborating with U.S. diplomats. Sentenced to 20 years in jail, he served 8 months before being allowed to seek asylum in Spain in April 2005. These are just some of the journalists that our caucus will highlight and profile to bring attention to those brave, committed members of the press around the world who are fighting for the freedom of all of us and to highlight those countries where press freedom is under attack. We welcome all of your membership in this caucus.
05.03.06	05.03.06 Schiff, Pence Launch Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press Washington, D.C. - In honor of World Press Freedom Day, Representatives Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Mike Pence (R-IN) today kicked off a new bipartisan, bicameral caucus aimed at advancing press freedom around the world. The Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press, co-chaired by Reps. Schiff and Pence in the House and by Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Richard Lugar (R-IN) in the Senate, creates a forum to combat and condemn media censorship and the persecution of journalists around the world.“A free and open press is vital to a healthy democracy. Journalists should not have to work in fear of governments throwing them in jail or harming them or their families simply for doing their job,” Schiff said. "By raising awareness of media censorship around the world, this caucus aims not only to protect journalists from persecution, but also to defend citizens' access to unfettered information.” "Where there is no freedom of the press, there is no freedom,” Pence said. “If America is to be a beacon of hope to the world, we must hold high the ideal of a free and independent press, advance it abroad and defend it at home. I am honored to associate myself with the men and women in Congress in both parties who advocate the freedom of the press for all of mankind.”Although international law clearly guarantees freedom of expression and the right to a free press, these rights continue to be violated on a broad scale everyday. In 2005, more that 65 journalist were killed, 1,300 physically attacked or threatened, and thousands imprisoned, just for doing their jobs. In light of these increasing attacks on free expression and the lives of journalists, the Caucus will work to raise awareness of threats to press freedom and to journalists working in dangerous countries and conditions.The Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press will advance press freedom protect journalist through the following initiatives:Convene experts to discuss the status of press freedom in “hot spot” countries to raise awareness of these issues among Members of Congress and the general public;Acquire and assemble reports on the incidence and prevalence of media censorship and journalist mistreatment and the services and supports available to victims of persecution;Initiate letters and petitions in support of organizations and campaigns for enhanced openness and tolerance in the press in order to advocate justice for murdered or imprisoned journalists;Provide guidance to Congress and federal agencies on policies and actions related to press freedom at home and abroadRecognize the courageous dedication of individual journalists who are reporting on important developments around the world, often at great personal and professional risk.The following organizations welcomed the establishment of the Congressional Caucus for the Freedom of the Press: the Committee to Protect Journalists, Reporters without Borders, Freedom House, the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, Free Press, the Newspaper Association of America, the National Endowment for Democracy, the Daniel Pearl Foundation, the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles and is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City. Congressman Pence is in his third term in Congress, representing Indiana's 6th Congressional District. He is a former radio talk show host and practicing attorney. He serves on the Judiciary, International Relations and Agriculture Committee.-30-
04.27.06	04.27.06 In Honor of Holocaust Remembrance Day Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 63rd anniversary the Warsaw Ghetto uprising. Today is Holocaust Remembrance Day, or in Hebrew, Yom HaShoah--Day of the Destruction. The "destruction'' is an apt description of the horrific crime that resulted in the deaths of six million Jews and destroyed families and communities across Europe. In remembering the unspeakable horror of the Holocaust, we must recommit ourselves to ensuring that this tragedy never happens again and to fighting the precursors that led to this mass genocide--the bigotry of anti-Semitism, the discriminatory Nurenberg Laws, and the blind eye that the world turned for far too long. We honor the memory of those that suffered, and we pray for a world free from such hatred and despair. The Jewish people have a long history of persecution and redemption. This month, the Jewish people celebrated Passover--a commemoration of the Exodus when the Jews received their freedom and were redeemed after 400 years of enslavement. This cycle of persecution and redemption has continued over the thousands of years since then, and in the years following the Holocaust, the Jewish people were redeemed through the founding of the State of Israel. The nation was founded on principles of democracy and freedom, and has maintained these ideals in the face of the ongoing terrorism that continues to plague its people. However, despite these attacks on its people, this Jewish State continues to serve as haven for persecuted Jews and since World War II, has taken in entire communities from the former Soviet Union, South Africa, Ethiopia, Argentina, and throughout the world. Immediately following the liberation of the concentration camps, we pledged to ourselves, never again. Never again will the world stand idly by while individuals are being slaughtered solely for their race, religion or ethnicity. But in the years since then, we have seen atrocities committed in Bosnia, Rwanda and Kosovo and a genocide is still ongoing in Darfur. Today, I rise on this solemn day to remember these brutal acts of genocide and recommit myself to this pledge, never again.
04.25.06	04.25.06 Schiff, Flake, Offer Bipartisan Amendment to Address Concerns Over the President's Domestic Surveillance Program Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Congressman Jeff Flake (R-AZ), members of the House Judiciary Committee, will offer an amendment in the House Rules Committee later today to address the President's domestic surveillance program. If the Rules Committee makes the amendment in order, it will be considered on the House Floor tomorrow during debate on the Intelligence Authorization Act (H.R. 5020). “Current law allows the Administration the ability to ensure that all American’s right to privacy is protected while obtaining wiretaps in a timely and confidential manner through a proper court of law,” said Rep. Schiff. “When Congress said the Administration must get court approval for domestic surveillance, we meant it. If the law needs to be revised to meet new challenges in the war on terrorism, the Administration should come to Congress and make the case for statutory change.”“The Administration has made a powerful case as to why this power is needed and I would support giving it to them, as I think most Members of Congress would,” stated Rep. Flake. “However, it's unclear that they currently have that power.”The amendment on NSA oversight would:Reiterate Exclusivity of Current FISA and Wiretap Laws - states that FISA and the federal criminal wiretap statutes shall continue to be the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance may be conducted.Clarify Military Force Statute - makes clear that the Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF), passed days after the September 11th attacks, does not provide an exception to FISA laws.Require Congressional Action - makes clear that current laws apply unless Congress amends the laws or passes additional laws regarding electronic surveillance.Require a Report on the Extent of the Wiretapping Program - requires classified disclosure to Congress of information about U.S. persons who have been the subject of any such warrantless electronic surveillance.Reps. Schiff and Flake previously teamed up to protect the civil liberties of Americans while ensuring that our national security needs are met. Last year, the two secured passage of an amendment to the Patriot Act to provide additional safeguards for library and bookstore records.Congresswoman Jane Harman, Ranking Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Congressman Bob Inglis (R-SC), another member of the House Judiciary Committee, have also signed on as original cosponsors of the amendment. Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.Congressman Flake is the former executive director of the Goldwater Institute in Phoenix, and represents the Sixth Congressional District of Arizona. This district includes parts of Mesa and Chandler and all of Gilbert, Queen Creek, and Apache Junction.-30-
04.06.06	04.06.06 Attorney General Won't Rule Out Warrantless Wiretaps of Purely Domestic Telephone Conversations of Americans Washington, D.C. – During a hearing before the House Judiciary Committee today, Rep. Adam B. Schiff (D-CA) questioned Attorney General Alberto Gonzales about the NSA's secret domestic wiretapping program. The Administration has cited the Authorization to Use Military Force and the commander in chief powers as authorizing the NSA to intercept international communications into and out of the U.S. of persons linked to al Qaeda or related terrorist organizations.After citing his concerns that there was no limiting principle to the Administration's claim of authority in the War on Terror, Rep. Schiff asked the Attorney General whether the Administration believes it has the authority to wiretap purely domestic calls between two Americans without seeking a warrant."I’m not going to rule it out," responded the Attorney General."This is very disturbing testimony," Rep. Schiff commented later, "and represents a wholly unprecedented assertion of executive power. No one in Congress would deny the need to tap certain calls under court order -- but if the Administration believes it can tap purely domestic phone calls between Americans without court approval, there is no limit to executive power. This is contrary to settled law and the most basic constitutional principles of the separation of powers."Rep. Schiff and Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) have introduced bipartisan legislation -- the NSA Oversight Act -- to reassert that FISA and Title III are the sole authority for domestic surveillance. The bill would:1. Reiterate Exclusivity of Current FISA and Wiretap Laws - states that FISA and the federal criminal wiretap statutes shall continue to be the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance may be conducted.2. Clarify Military Force Statute - makes clear that the Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF), passed days after the September 11th attacks, does not provide an exception to that rule.3. Require Congressional Action - makes clear that current laws apply unless Congress amends the laws or passes additional laws regarding electronic surveillance.4. Require Report on the Extent of the Wiretapping Program - requires classified disclosure to Congress of information about U.S. persons who have been the subject of any such electronic surveillance.Congressman Schiff co-founded the Democratic Study Group on National Security and is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House International Relations Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. Schiff is proud to represent California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
04.05.06	04.05.06 Calling for Active Engagement in Darfur Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3128, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006. Three years ago, the United Nations Security Council declared its grave concern at the widespread human rights violations in Darfur and expressed its determination to do everything possible to halt a humanitarian catastrophe. Since then, at least 300,000 people are estimated to have died in Darfur. Currently, more than 3.5 million Darfurians depend on international aid for survival and another 2 million have been driven from their homes. In 2004, pressure from Congress and American citizens prompted the Bush administration to become the first government to recognize the mass killing in Darfur as a genocide. Since then, the U.S. has played an important role by pressing for an international response to the crisis in Darfur at the U.N. supporting the deployment and expansion of the African Union Mission In Sudan (AMIS), and providing critical humanitarian aid. Unfortunately, the U.S. and the international community have yet to muster the will or cooperative action necessary to adequately protect civilians, end the killing, and broker lasting peace. Last week the U.N. Security Council issued a resolution reaffirming that the situation in the Sudan continues to constitute a threat to international peace and security. In Darfur large scale attacks on villages have been replaced by rampant banditry, a campaign of sexual violence, and the practical entrapment of civilians in camps. Government backed militias have not been reined in and rebel groups are contributing to violence on the ground. Civilians continue to be attacked, women and girls raped, humanitarian workers harassed, and critical aid supplies disrupted. For people of Darfur, the situation remains one of daily violence and insecurity, desperate living conditions, and the persistent threat of hunger and disease. Sixty years ago, in the wake of the Holocaust, the international community vowed, ``Never again.'' Ten years ago, confronted with the death toll of the Rwandan genocide, leaders of the same nations again declared, ``Never again.'' Today, tens of thousands of women, men, and children have been murdered and hundreds of thousands continue to suffer in Darfur. The Darfur Peace and Accountability Act reminds the administration and the international community that the genocide in Darfur demands urgent attention and action, and calls upon the President to use both economic and political leverage to elicit cooperation from the Sudanese government. Passing the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act is a small, but important demonstration of this nation's commitment to human rights. I hope that passage of this important legislation will spur more concerted national and international efforts to bring security and stability to the people of Darfur.
04.05.06	04.05.06 Schiff Introduces Measure to Hold Nations Accountable for Copyright Piracy Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) today introduced legislation that calls for global action against persistent intellectual property piracy. The measure urges the United States to halt the efforts of Russia to join the World Trade Organization if it does not take concrete steps to crack down on piracy of copyrighted materials. The concurrent resolution also holds China, Mexico, Canada, India and Malaysia responsible for the widespread problem of intellectual property theft. These six countries were placed on a watch list by the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus for their lax enforcement of these crimes.“The movie and recording industries, along with software, science and engineering businesses, provide needed, well-paying jobs for hard-working Americans,” Schiff said. “The federal government should not allow their workproduct to be stolen and for American companies to be put at an economic disadvantage. Each year we lose billions of dollars worth of American workproduct and invention. Congress should speak directly to the issue of copyright piracy and hold countries responsible if they enable this theft to take place.”Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) is joining Schiff in introducing the resolution in the House of Representatives; Senators Joe Biden (D-DE) and Gordon Smith (R-OR) are introducing a similar measure in the Senate.Congressman Schiff is a Co-Chair of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus, co-founded the Democratic Study Group on National Security, and is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House International Relations Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. Schiff is proud to represent California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City. -30-
03.29.06	03.29.06 Schiff, Biggert Introduce Judicial Compensation Bill Washington, D.C. - Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch Co-chairs Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Judy Biggert (R-IL) yesterday introduced legislation to reform the outdated compensation system for federal judges. The goal of the bill, the Federal Judicial Fairness Act of 2006, is to keep highly-qualified, experienced judges from leaving the bench because of current pay inequities.Currently, salary increases for justices and judges are linked with the salaries of Members of Congress. On several occasions when Congress has voted against giving itself a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA), federal judges also have been denied an increase. This has occurred in five of the last 13 years.“The federal judiciary is an integral part of our democracy, providing an important check to the other branches and protecting the rights of the American people,” said Schiff. “If we want the best and the brightest to fill our benches and we want to continue to attract judges from diverse backgrounds, we need to make sure that the compensation system keeps pace with changes in the cost of living.”“Individuals seek and accept a nomination to the bench because they want to serve their country. But this does not mean they should forgo fair compensation for their work,” said Biggert. “This legislation is about more than just fairly compensating our nation’s federal judiciary. It’s about ensuring that those individuals who sit on the federal bench do so because they are among the nation’s greatest legal minds.”Several reports over the last few years specifically have recommended that salary adjustments for Members and judicial officials be determined separately. In 2003, a report by the National Commission on the Public Service (the Volcker Commission), cited "the compelling need to recruit and retain the best people possible" to serve on the federal judiciary and urged Congress to move on "an immediate and substantial increase in judicial salaries," since "the lag in judicial salaries has gone on too long, and the potential for the diminished quality in American jurisprudence is now too large." The "Federal Judicial Fairness Act of 2006" - H.R. 5014 - will address this issue and restore equity in federal judicial salaries. Specifically, the bill will: * Terminate the linkage of congressional COLAs to judicial pay increases, so that Congress's decision to deny itself pay raises will not affect federal judges;* Increase the salaries of all Federal judges by 16.5 percent to partially make up for the decline in real pay for judges over the last three decades. In 2003, both President Bush and the late Chief Justice Rehnquist agreed that a pay adjustment of at least 16.5 percent was necessary; and* Provide Federal judges with annual COLAs based on the Employee Cost Index, the index already used by the federal government to keep federal salaries in line with inflation. Schiff and Biggert are Co-founders and Co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch. The Caucus works to improve the relationship between the legislative and judicial branches and focuses on issues that directly impact the Judiciary. Former United States Supreme Court Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, former Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, and Justice David Souter have met with members of the Judicial Caucus over the past two years. The caucus will meet in May with Chief Justice John Roberts, Jr.Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and sits on the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.Congresswoman Biggert is a former probate lawyer who began her legal career as clerk to the Honorable Luther M. Swygert, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. She serves on the Education and Workforce, Financial Services, Science, and Standards of Official Conduct committees. Biggert’s Illinois Congressional district stretches from the southern half of DuPage County to northern Will County and includes a small portion of southwestern Cook County. - 30 -
03.28.06	03.28.06 Balancing the Budget: Getting Past the Smoke and Mirrors Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Ross) for yielding to me. Once more I thank him for leading these Blue Dog hours each week and for the tremendous job he does in trying to balance our budget here in the Nation's Capital, as well as look out for those constituents back in Arkansas. I wanted to join the gentleman from Arkansas and raise a number of concerns with the way that we are handling the Nation's budget, talk about some of the reforms that the Blue Dogs have been advocating. Let me just start out by talking about the budget picture. The chart that you have put up, Mr. Ross, really tells the story of the trillions of dollars' worth of debt we have acquired, the fact that for every man, woman and child in the country, we now owe $28,000. I was out in my district last week talking to a group of school kids. They were asking me, what would I like to see different about the way the country is run. I said, well, for one thing, I would like to see us balance our budget. Right now, we are spending your money, I told this young man. We are spending so much of your money, that when you graduate from college, if you graduated tomorrow, in addition to your student loans, you would owe the country $28,000. By the time you actually graduate from college, it will probably be, on the present course, much more than that. Now, why is it that we have this debt? Well, the bottom line is, we are spending money faster than it is coming in, and you can't vote. We are spending your money, because you cannot object. That just is not right. Now, how did we get to this situation? I think we got here through some very creative accounting. It used to be that when we calculated our debt, we looked at a 10-year window. But the 10-year picture got so bleak, we decided that, no, we will start looking at, instead, a 5-year window. We won't look at what happens beyond 5 years because the debt just grows so large. In fact, what we started to do is we started to craft some of the revenue and tax measures here so that they would balloon in the outyears, so the impact on the budget would take place in the outyears, so that if we only looked at the narrow 5-year window, we didn't see how bad the picture got when the full effect of our policies took place 5 to 10 or 15 years from now. But we did more than that. When the administration, for example, says that their plan will balance or cut the debt in half over the next 5 years, they are taking great poetic license with certain assumptions about what will happen in the next several years. For example, the administration's budget, the one they say that will get us to cut the deficit in half in the next 5 years, ignores the costs of the Iraq war after the end of this year. That makes an assumption I think we would all like to make that there won't be any further war costs after December 31, but that is not a realistic assumption. Even if the last troops have come home by then, there are still billions and billions of dollars to repair, to maintain, to replace the equipment that has been degraded in Iraq. More than that, we have to prudently expect that the expenses of the Iraq war are not going to come to an end on December 31. Even if all the troops came home, those expenses would not come to an end then. What other fictions are we using in the budget process? Well, we are assuming that nothing is done about the alternative minimum tax. This tax that was started in the 1970s and was designed to apply to only a few families in the country was never indexed for inflation. The basic theme behind that, or the theory of that, wasn't a bad theory, it was that several of the largest, wealthiest families in the country shouldn't escape any form of tax because they used a clever combination of tax loopholes. There ought to be some alternative minimum calculation. What was designed to and did apply only to a handful of families in the 1970s, because it was never indexed for inflation, now is applying to millions of people. This cannot be left unchecked. If the AMT is not fixed, then all of the tax cuts that were given in the last several years will be completely wiped up and replaced with a very large middle-class tax increase. Now, the administration knows this is a problem that has to be dealt with, but it is very expensive to fix this problem. It is going to require that we deal, very frankly, with some of the different budget priorities that we haven't been willing to deal with. But by ignoring the impending AMT problem, by ignoring the ongoing costs of the war in Iraq, by narrowing the budget window that we are looking at from 10 years to 5 years, by engaging in these kinds of smoke and mirrors, by taking certain costs off the books, we can present to the country a budget picture which is not reflective of reality. It doesn't show what dire fiscal straits we are really in. It is one of the reasons why I am so grateful for the work you are doing, Mr. Ross, to point out to the country just how bad it has got in terms of our fiscal picture to promote the Blue Dog's 12-point plan, part of which is very simple, that is, when you are in a hole the way we are, stop digging. That is part of our PAYGO proposal that says that we want to stop the hemorrhaging, that when we agree to new spending on this House floor, we should find a way to offset that cost so that we do it in a revenue-neutral way. When we agree on new tax cuts, we should find a way to do that in a revenue-neutral way, either by cutting spending or raising revenues somewhere else. PAYGO, pay-as-you-go, basically says there is no free lunch, and, indeed, there isn't, as you can see by the fact that every man, woman and child in this country now owes $28,000. From 2001 to 2003, just a couple-year period, the total government spending soared by 16 percent. We are trying to put a lid on those kinds of increases. We are trying to urge that the Federal Government simply use accounting practices that the biggest and the best firms in the country have to use. The GAO did a study that showed that 16 of 23 major Federal agencies can't do a simple audit of their own books. Can you imagine, Mr. Ross, if one of the companies back in your district or mine did their accounting, if they were a public company, they did their accounting the way that the Federal Government does, how long it would be before they were indicted before a Federal grand jury? It wouldn't be long at all. Now, why is it that we can require transparency and accountability and honest bookkeeping among our private firms in the interests of their shareholders, in the interests of their employees, but we don't seem to require it of the country itself? We haven't set aside funds for a rainy day. It is something that most businesses do, it is something that most families do, so that when these tragedies occur, when we have natural disasters, when we have man-made disasters, we have some reserve to go back to. It makes infinite sense. The economy is a cyclical phenomenon. We ought to have something stored away for a rainy day for when we are in a down part of the cycle. That is only prudent planning. That is part of the Blue Dog plan. We shouldn't hide the votes on this House floor when we are going to raise the debt. Most Americans are unaware of the fact that the national debt is a little bit like a credit card debt. When we want to raise the national debt, that is when we want to authorize the administration to borrow more money. We have to vote to authorize it the same away that when people want to borrow more on their credit card they have to contact the credit card company and ask them to raise the limit. How do we do that around here? Well, do we have an up or down vote where we can force people to go on the record and vote either to raise the national debt or against raising the national debt? No, we do more of that smoke and mirrors. We make it a procedural vote on top of a procedural vote on top of a procedural vote. Unless you are a sleuth, there is no way to find out that we have, in fact, voted to raise the debt on all Americans. We shouldn't hide those votes. We should be open about those votes. We should be held accountable for those votes; and maybe, maybe, if each and every Member had to come to this House floor and defend a vote to raise the debt, we could compel the adoption of sound fiscal practices like pay-as-you-go. I would love to see that. I would love to be able to join my Blue Dog colleagues and offer an amendment to a motion to raise the national debt that says, all right, we will agree to a short-term increase in the national debt provided that we adopt pay-as-you-go rules, provided that we come back here in a short period of time, we see what action the administration, the Congress are taking, that we don't raise the national debt by great leaps and bounds that let us off the hook for a year at a time, but, rather, give us only a short leash to get our fiscal house in order to show that we are diligently working on it.These are some of the reforms the Blue Dogs are advocating. They were good public policy. They would enjoy, I believe, bipartisan support if we had the chance to actually vote on these proposals. And I want to compliment my colleague for all of his leadership on this issue.
03.16.06	03.16.06 Schiff, Flake Introduce Bipartisan bill, the "NSA Oversight Act" Washington, D.C. – Two members of the House Judiciary Committee, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Congressman Jeff Flake (R-AZ), introduced legislation today to address the NSA’s surveillance program.On introducing the NSA Oversight Act, Rep. Schiff stated: “When Congress passed FISA and Title III, it intended to provide the sole authority for surveillance of Americans on American soil. Those acts require court approval for such surveillance, and the FISA court has proved capable of acting expeditiously. If the law needs to be revised to meet new challenges in the war on terrorism, the Administration should come to Congress and make the case for statutory change.”“The Administration has made a powerful case as to why this power is needed and I would support giving it to them, as I think most Members of Congress would,” stated Rep. Flake. “However, it's unclear that they currently have that power.”The bill, the NSA OVERSIGHT ACT, would:Reiterate Exclusivity of Current FISA and Wiretap Laws - states that FISA and the federal criminal wiretap statutes shall continue to be the exclusive means by which domestic electronic surveillance may be conducted.Clarify Military Force Statute - makes clear that the Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF), passed days after the September 11th attacks, does not provide an exception to that rule.Require Congressional Action - makes clear that current laws apply unless Congress amends the laws or passes additional laws regarding electronic surveillance.Require Report on the Extent of the Wiretapping Program - requires classified disclosure to Congress of information about U.S. persons who have been the subject of any such electronic surveillance.Reps. Schiff and Flake previously teamed up to protect the civil liberties of Americans while ensuring that our national security needs are met. Last year, the two secured passage of an amendment to the Patriot Act to provide additional safeguards for library and bookstore records.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.Congressman Flake is the former executive director of the Goldwater Institute in Phoenix, and represents the Sixth Congressional District of Arizona. This district includes parts of Mesa and Chandler and all of Gilbert, Queen Creek, and Apache Junction.-30-
03.09.06	03.09.06 Authorizing Innovative Approaches to Reduce Drug Demand Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act, and I was pleased that the House Judiciary Committee adopted two amendments that I offered and that they are part of the base bill. Street drug markets, such as open air drug dealing at the corner and at drug houses, are a serious public safety problem. Often located in poor, minority, and disadvantaged communities, they cause severe harm by easing initiation into drug use, supporting addiction, and by drawing youth into the drug trade. My first amendment, which is designated Sec. 14 of H.R. 2829, provided for demonstration programs by local partnerships to shut down illicit drug market hot-spots by deterring drug dealers or altering the dynamic of drug sales. This provision authorizes funding for demonstration programs that seek to coordinate an effective intervention using a credible, deterrent message. This would encourage criminal justice agencies to collaborate with researchers and social welfare agencies to analyze local conditions and develop strategic, problem-solving interventions. Such an approach was proven successful in High Point, NC. Upon identifying the drug market and its small group of active dealers, law enforcement carefully monitored and documented drug activity and probation/parole violations through surveillance and drug buys. Offenders with any violent criminal history were immediately arrested. Non-violent offenders, on the other hand, were confronted by law enforcement, city officials, service organizations and their families with a strong deterrent message. They were given a choice between facing immediate legal action or ceasing dealing and receiving rehabilitative services. Consequently, the drug market promptly collapsed with minimal police intervention or crime displacement. Within one year of implementation, the drug crime rate of High Point fell by 34% and the violent crime rate was cut in half. Sec. 14 of this bill authorizes $10 million for the next three years to fund demonstration programs supporting these interagency collaborations. The agencies would be responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the strategic intervention, and the Director would be responsible for submitting to Congress a report identifying the best practices in drug market eradication. My second amendment, which is designated Sec. 15 of H.R. 2829, provided for demonstration programs by local partnerships to coerce abstinence in chronic hard-drug users under community supervision through the use of drug testing and sanctions. This provision authorizes funding for demonstration programs that seek to reduce the use of illicit drugs by chronic hard-drug users living in the community while under the supervision of the criminal justice system. Approximately 80 percent of the Nation's cocaine is consumed by a relatively small group of chronic users (approximately 4 million). Three-quarters of these users are under the supervision of the criminal justice system. By deterring these users, we would be able to reduce the nation's cocaine consumption by 60 percent--and these numbers are similar for other hard drugs, such as heroin and meth. Coerced abstinence is a highly effective means for targeting these users. This model is based on predictable, frequent drug testing and known, non-negotiable, immediate, graduated sanctions. For example, a system where a participant is tested every 72 hours and a dirty test led to an immediate, unpleasant sanction--for example, 8 hours in a jury box or 24 hours in jail. Participants are simultaneously offered incentives such as drug treatment or other rehabilitative services. An ongoing example of this model is being used in Hawaii, where substance abuse violations are common, with meth being the drug of choice. In October 2005, one year after the program began, program participants had an 83 percent reduction in positive test results (from 21.9% for control group to 3.8% for program participants) and an 87 percent reduction in missed appointments for testing (from 10% for control group to 1.3% for program participants). This level of effectiveness we cannot ignore. For this reason, Sec. 15 of H.R. 2829 authorizes $10 million for the next 3 years for demonstration programs that administer drug tests to individuals at least twice a week and swiftly impose a known set of graduated sanctions for non-compliance. The program must include a plan for monitoring the progress toward reducing the percentage of positive drugs and missed testing appointments, and the Director would be responsible for submitting to Congress a report identifying the best practices in reducing the use of illicit drugs by chronic hard-drug users. I commend the Office of National Drug Control Policy for publicly committing itself to the goal of reducing illegal drug use and abuse in the United States. However, I also call on the Director to increase the allocation of funds dedicated for treatment and demand reduction efforts, which have shown to be very successful in reducing drug use. To achieve this national drug control policy that efficiently reduces drug use and abuse in the United States, we need strategies that are as smart as they are tough. This requires that we remain open to evidence-based programs and respond with innovation. I commend ONDCP for the progress it has made, ask that the Director consider these recommendations and will support this legislation, H.R. 2829, to the reauthorize the Office.
03.09.06	03.09.06 Schiff Port Security, Rail Safety Measures Enacted Washington, D.C. – Several important measures authored by Rep. Schiff became law today when the president signed a comprehensive terrorism prevention bill. The bill, which reauthorized several provisions of the Patriot Act, also included provisions to address seaport security, rail safety, weapons of mass destruction, and methamphetamines.“The 9/11 report called for us to be more creative in thinking about the possibility of future terrorist attacks, and I agree that we must act now to address all the threats that confront us,” said Schiff. “These measures will help secure the ports and railways that transport our citizens and are vital to our economy.”The following Schiff provisions were included in the new law:Port Security – Bans using a vessel to smuggle terrorists or dangerous materials into the country; increases penalties for providing false information about a shipment or fraudulently gaining access to a seaport; and gives law enforcement more tools to stop questionable vessels before they reach a port. This provision was co-authored by Rep. Howard Coble (R-NC) and introduced in the Senate by Sens. Joe Biden, Arlen Specter, and Dianne Feinstein.Rail Safety – Prohibits surveilling, photographing, videotaping, diagramming, or otherwise collecting information in order to plan an attack on a mass transit system.Weapons of Mass Destruction – Criminalizes the use of a vessel for transporting substances (including biological, chemical, and nuclear weapons) that may be used in a terrorist attack. Also calls for forfeiture of all assets for anyone associated with the shipment of weapons of mass destruction, including technology and material.Congressman Schiff co-founded the Democratic Study Group on National Security and is a member of the House Judiciary Committee and the House International Relations Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. Schiff is proud to represent California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.09.06	03.09.06 Drug Policy Bill Passes House Washington, D.C. – The House today approved a bill to reauthorize the Office of National Drug Control Policy and included several provisions authored by Rep. Adam Schiff.The first provision authorizes a program aimed at shutting down drug markets by developing strategic local plans to fight illicit drug use. “Our National Drug Control Strategy must encourage innovative approaches to curbing drug use,” said Schiff. “Treatment is important, but it is far better to get to the root of the problem and stop the demand for illicit drugs in our communities.”Such an approach was proven successful in High Point, NC. After identifying the drug market and its small group of active dealers, law enforcement monitored drug activity and probation/parole violations. Non-violent offenders were given a choice between facing immediate legal action or ceasing dealing and receiving rehabilitative services. Consequently, the drug market promptly collapsed with minimal police intervention or crime displacement. Within one year of implementation, the drug crime rate of High Point fell by 34% and the violent crime rate was cut in half. Schiff’s amendment would encourage similar efforts around the country.Schiff’s other provision calls for frequent, mandatory drug testing for chronic offenders with strong penalties for violations, called “coerced abstinence.” For example, a system where a participant is tested every 72 hours and a dirty test led to an immediate, unpleasant sanction – for example 8 hours in a jury box or 24 hours in jail. Participants are simultaneously offered incentives such as drug treatment or other rehabilitative services. This approach is currently finding great success in Honolulu, Hawaii, where previous drug tests turned up 21.9% positive drug tests and 10% missed appointments altogether. With this program in place, the positive drug tests dropped to 3.8% and the missed appointment rate dropped to 1.3%.Approximately 80 percent of the nation’s cocaine is consumed by approximately four million chronic users. Three-quarters of these users are under currently the supervision of the criminal justice system. “When it turns out that drug users are already in the criminal justice system, we must take a bold new approach that involves constant testing and immediate sanctions for continued drug use,” said Schiff. “This program is a terrific first step, and I am pleased this measure passed the House today.”The bill, H.R. 2829, the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2005, passed the House Judiciary Committee last week and passed the House today by a 399-5 vote. It now faces action in the U.S. Senate.Congressman Schiff is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch and a member of the House Judiciary Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.07.06	03.07.06 House Passes Bill to Protect Children and Reduce Crime Washington, D.C. – The House today passed H.R. 4472, the Children’s Safety and Violent Crime Reduction Act. This bill includes provisions from several measures that have already seen action by the House, including the Children’s Safety Act to get tough on sex offenders, a court protection bill, and a bill to stop gang activity in our communities.“There is no greater resource we have than our kids,” said Schiff, who is the father of two young children. “The action we are taking today will help prevent a parent’s worst nightmare – that harm could come to their children.”Several important measures authored by Rep. Adam Schiff are included:Lifetime electronic monitoring for released sex offenders, especially for repeat offenders.Improved technology training for law enforcement to stop internet crime against children.Court protection grants to states and localities to help protect our courtrooms.Strengthen U.S. Marshals protection to stop violence against court personnel.Analyze new measures necessary to solve more homicide cases by improving investigations of hard-to-solve cases, particularly those involving missing persons and unidentified human remains.G.R.E.A.T. Act provisions supporting anti-gang programs in schools similar to the D.A.R.E. program to combat drug use.Congressman Schiff is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch and a member of the House Judiciary Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
03.03.06	03.03.06 Schiff Supports U.N. Security Council Efforts to Stop Iran's Nuclear Weapons Program Washington, D.C. - Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) sent a letter to the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council thanking them for their response to Iran’s resumption of nuclear activities and encouraging continued vigilance.“Iran's non-compliance with its international commitments must be met by a united international community,” said Schiff. “The Security Council must show unity and resolve to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons.”The letter thanks China, France, Russia, and the United Kingdom for requesting a report of Iran’s nuclear program to the Security Council by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Board of Governors. The letter catalogues shared concerns over Iran’s nuclear program. These concerns include:Misleading the international community about its nuclear efforts after signing the Additional Protocol to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT)Not cooperating with the IAEA on an inquiry of its nuclear activities in June 2004.Violating a November 2004 agreement with the EU to suspend uranium enrichment.Allegedly engaging in a clandestine effort, dubbed Green Salt, which includes uranium processing, high explosives, and missile warhead design.Declaring that a United Nations member state must be wiped off the map.The letter also urges the Security Council to strengthen inspection and diplomacy efforts and to establish consequences to continued non-compliance. The UN Security Council will take up this issue again in early March after the release of a detailed report documenting Iran’s activities.Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.01.06	03.01.06 Schiff Sponsors Legislation to Secure Our Borders Washingtion, D.C. – Today, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) joined Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), and Rep. David Dreier (R-CA) to introduce legislation in both the House and Senate to criminalize the construction or financing of border tunnels. As a former federal prosecutor who prosecuted drug trafficking and illegal immigrant smuggling, Schiff recognized the need to give prosecutors new tools to fight these crimes. Recently, U.S. border officials found a 2,400 foot tunnel stretching from Tijuana, Mexico to San Diego at California’s southern border. The tunnel, the longest of its kind ever found, was equipped with sophisticated draining, lighting, and pulley systems.“The discovery of this tunnel is a wake-up call for every Member of Congress,” Schiff said, “This is not a California or an Arizona problem – it is national one. Although these tunnels have been principally used to smuggle drugs and illegal immigrants, there is nothing preventing their use for the smuggling of chemical, biological, or radiological material. The 9/11 Commission warned against a failure of imagination, and it takes little to imagine terrorists making use of these holes in our border security. “Since 9/11, U.S. border officials have discovered 40 tunnels along American borders. They range in complexity from short “gopher holes” to massive drug-cartel built passages like the one found in San Diego. The legislation proposed today would:Impose a punishment of up to 20 years imprisonment for constructing or financing a tunnel crossing international borders into the United States;Impose a punishment of up to 10 years imprisonment for anyone who permits others to construct or use an unauthorized tunnel or subterranean passage on their land;Punish any person who uses a tunnel or subterranean passage to smuggle aliens, weapons, drugs, terrorists or illegal goods by doubling the sentence for the underlying offense if convicted;Forfeit the assets of anyone involved in the offense, or any property traceable to the offense, in addition to imprisonment;Instruct the U.S. Sentencing Commission to amend sentencing guidelines to provide for criminal penalties for persons convicted under this bill, and to take into account the gravity of this crime when considering the base offense levels.Congressman Schiff is a former federal prosecutor and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
03.01.06	03.01.06 Schiff Joins in Honoring NAACP Washington, D.C. – Today the House of Representatives passed a resolution honoring the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on the occasion of its 97th anniversary. The resolution, H.Con.Res. 335, was introduced by Rep. Al Green, a Democrat from Houston, Texas. Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) was proud to cosponsor this legislation.“For nearly a century, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has worked toward political, educational, social, and economic equality,” Schiff said. “Its courageous efforts have benefited countless Americans and have helped create a more fair and just society. I am proud to salute its achievements today and encourage its progress in the future.”In September, Congressman Schiff joined in honoring Maurice Morse, who received the Altadena NAACP’s Citizen of the Year Award at its annual Freedom Fund Luncheon. Ms. Morse is a retired Pasadena Unified School District teacher and administrator.In 1909, a multiracial committee including Ida Wells-Barnett, W.E.B. DuBois, Henry Moscowitz, Mary White Ovington, Oswald Garrison Villiard, and William English Walling founded the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. In the years that followed, the organization built a legacy of fighting for full suffrage and other civil rights and an end to segregation and racial violence. In the face of cruelty and hate, members of the NAACP led an unceasing call for justice and equality for all Americans. They continue to pursue an integrated society rich in diversity.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
02.28.06	02.28.06 Schiff Votes to Honor Tuskegee Airmen Washington, D.C. -- Today, the House of Representatives passed a bill to bestow the Congressional Gold Medal on the Tuskegee Airmen for their patriotism and sacrifices for our nation. Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) was an original co-sponsor of this legislation.In July 1941, thirteen young Americans began military flight training at the Tuskegee Army Air Field in Tuskegee, Alabama. Five of those thirteen young men completed training and received their Army Air Corps silver pilot wings, becoming our nation’s first African-American military fighter pilots. Between 1941 and 1946, over nine hundred men completed training to become part of what would later be known as the fearless and brave Tuskegee Airmen.“It has been said that the Tuskegee Airmen faced two wars – one against a military force overseas and the other against racism and bigotry at home and abroad,” Schiff said. “Yet, in the face of these challenges, they accepted their country’s call to service and fought heroically in great battles for freedom. I am so pleased that Congress has bestowed this high honor on them.”In addition to working to award the Tuskegee Airmen the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor, Congressman Schiff and Congressman William Lacy Clay have led the initiative to create a commemorative postage stamp to honor the Tuskegee Airmen. Ninety-one Members of Congress have joined the Congressmen in this effort.The Congressional Gold Medal of Honor - more commonly known as the Congressional Gold Medal - is the nation's highest and most distinguished civilian award. It was originally awarded to military leaders for achievement in battle, but became a civilian medal after the Medal of Honor was instituted. The medal is presented both for singular acts of exceptional service and for lifetime achievement. Once Congress passes legislation to award this honor, it commissions the U.S Mint to design and create the medal. This ensures that each medal is unique, representing each individual or event for which it is awarded.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.- 30 -
02.28.06	02.28.06 Supporting the Awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal to the Tuskegee Airmen Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H. Res. 1259, a resolution to honor the Tuskegee Airmen. I would also like to express my appreciation for their heroism and bravery. These men deserve the Nation's highest honor for their courage and patriotism.In July 1941, 13 young Americans began military flight training at the Tuskegee Army Air Field in Tuskegee, AL. Five of those 13 young men completed training and received their Army Air Corps silver pilot wings, becoming our Nation's first African-American military fighter pilots. They would later be known as the Tuskegee Airmen.Between 1941 and 1946, 1992 pilots graduated at Tuskegee Army Air Field, with 450 of those serving during World War II in either the famed 99th Fighter Squadron or the 332nd Fighter Group. Both units, heralded for their bravery and tenacity, received more than one Presidential Unit Citation for exemplary tactical air support and aerial combat. The group also felt the price of war, losing 150 pilots while in training or on combat flights.It has been said that the Tuskegee Airmen faced two wars--one against a military force overseas and the other against racism and bigotry at home and abroad. Yet, in the face of these challenges, they accepted their country's call to service and fought heroically in great battles for freedom.I am honored to represent 3 of these courageous individuals: Mr. O. Oliver Goodall of Altadena, CA; Mr. Andrew Jack Simon of South Pasadena, CA; and Mr. LeRoy Criss of Pasadena, CA. They received their training and joined the ranks of Tuskegee Airmen in 1942 and 1943. Today, I honor Mr. Goodall, Mr. Simon, Mr. Criss, and all other Tuskegee Airmen who served our country with valor and distinction.
02.24.06	02.24.06 Schiff Reacts to Arrest of Armando Garcia Washington, D.C. – On April 29, 2002, Los Angeles County Deputy Sheriff David March was murdered, execution-style, during a routine traffic stop. The suspect Armando Garcia fled to Mexico and has been a fugitive since. Last night he was arrested in Mexico. Congressman Adam Schiff made the following statement:“The family of Deputy March has been waiting for almost four years for justice--today, they are one step closer. I welcome the Mexican government's recent cooperation, but our work is not complete until all fugitives in Mexico are apprehended and brought to justice in the United States."Mexico has refused to extradite Garcia and other Mexican nationals accused of serious crimes unless prosecutors agree not to pursue the death penalty or even life in prison. Recently, the Mexican Supreme Court reversed a decision that had prevented extradition back to the United States of Garcia and other fugitives who have committed crimes that carry lifetime sentences. Congressman Schiff serves on both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He was an assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles for six years. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City. -30-
02.16.06	02.16.06 The Need for Unity Regarding Iran's Nuclear Program Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today as a cosponsor of this resolution. Iran's resumption of nuclear activities and its non-compliance with international commitments must be met by a united Congress and a united international community. For almost 3 years, the United States, the European Union, Russia, the IAEA and other parties have been working to negotiate an end to those parts of Iran's nuclear program that could allow it to produce nuclear weapons. Iran has continued to mislead the international community about its efforts. It has alternated diplomatic overtures with clandestine activity on its nuclear program. In June 2004, just a few months after making assurances to the international community, Iran was criticized by the IAEA for failing to cooperate with an inquiry of its nuclear activities. In November 2004, Iran agreed to suspend much of its uranium enrichment in a deal with the EU. However, in August 2005, Iran resumed its uranium conversion at its Isfahan plant and in January 2006, broke IAEA seals at its Natanz facility. It has since resumed enriching uranium at that facility. Experts indicate that Iran could produce a nuclear weapon in as little as 3 to 5 years. According to a report issued by the IAEA to member governments on January 31, 2006, Iran has a clandestine effort, dubbed Green Salt, which has been working on uranium processing, high explosives and a missile warhead design. The report clearly demonstrates a nexus between Iran's efforts to develop a nuclear fuel cycle and Tehran's military, thus undercutting the Iranian government's repeated denials that it seeks to develop nuclear weapons. Iran's growing nuclear capability is compounded by a series of recent statements by Iran's president, in which he declared that a fellow member of the United Nations must be wiped off the map. These remarks demonstrate a disregard for human life and undermine the central principle of the United Nations. The world community cannot stand by while an outlaw regime announces its desire to annihilate millions of people and attempts to develop the nuclear weapons to do so. The community of nations has properly condemned these threats; now we must ensure that Iran will never develop the capability to act on them. I am hopeful that all members of the United Nations Security Council will take a strong stand for international peace and security when this issue is considered by the Security Council in March. I can think of no greater priority for the Council and believe that concerted action by the Council's Permanent Members represents the best opportunity to defuse this crisis. As a gesture of appreciation from the Congress, I, along with Mr. Kirk of Illinois and Mr. Andrews of New Jersey, am circulating a letter to the other Permanent Members of the Security Council. The letter thanks them for their support in reporting Iran to the Security Council and urges them to establish consequences to continued non-compliance. I encourage my colleagues to sign the letter. I am hopeful that with a united Congress and a united international community, we can prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons which could destabilize the entire region and which could be used to carry out Iran's professed desire to wipe millions of its neighbors off the map.
02.07.06	02.07.06 Honoring Coretta Scott King Washington, D.C. – Congressman Adam Schiff was part of the official Congressional Delegation attending the funeral of Coretta Scott King today. Last week, he made the following comments on the floor of the House of Representatives:“Mrs. King recalled that after her husband's tragic assassination she felt compelled to rededicate herself to the completion of his work. Indeed, Coretta Scott King became an ardent activist in the struggle against injustice, fighting to achieve Dr. King's unfulfilled dreams.”“Those of us who were too young to remember well the civil rights movement continue to ask ourselves what would we have done. Would we have stood up? Would we have questioned those in power? Would we have demanded equality and justice? Or would we, like so many Americans, have remained indifferent? The best answer we can find to that question of what we would have done is answered by asking what are we doing now to advance the cause of justice and equality. In 1960s Alabama, the Kings battled overt bigotry. Today, we arm ourselves against silent intolerance.”“While we look to our past and consider how far we have come, we must keep an eye towards the future, knowing that the movement is not over and that each one of us must continue to dedicate ourselves to pursuing an America with equal opportunity for all.”In 2003 Congressman Schiff joined a civil rights pilgrimage to Alabama led by Congressman John Lewis. Congressman Schiff is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
02.01.06	02.01.06 Honoring Coretta Scott King Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Mrs. Coretta Scott King, a civil rights icon. Raised on a small farm in Alabama, Coretta Scott found her way to Boston where she met Martin Luther King, Jr. The two married and moved to Montgomery, Alabama, where Dr. King became the seminal figure of the civil rights movement. Mrs. King joined her husband's pursuit of civil rights by serving as an equal partner in Dr. King's tireless efforts to pursue justice, equality, and peace. Mrs. King recalled that after her husband's tragic assassination she felt compelled to rededicate herself to the completion of his work. Indeed, Coretta Scott King became an ardent activist in the struggle against injustice, fighting to achieve Dr. King's unfulfilled dreams. Two years ago, I joined a civil rights pilgrimage to Alabama, and it was a remarkable experience. Led by CongressmanJohn Lewis, a number of our colleagues visited many of the sites of the civil rights struggles, including the Kings' Dexter Avenue church. We relived the experiences of those that led the movement, saw the incredible events of that time through their eyes, and it was an unforgettable experience. Those of us who were too young to remember well the civil rights movement continue to ask ourselves what would we have done. Would we have stood up? Would we have questioned those in power? Would we have demanded equality and justice? Or would we, like so many Americans, have remained indifferent? The best answer we can find to that question of what we would have done is answered by asking what are we doing now to advance the cause of justice and equality. In 1960s Alabama, the Kings battled overt bigotry. Today, we arm ourselves against silent intolerance. While we look to our past and consider how far we have come, we must keep an eye towards the future, knowing that the movement is not over and that each one of us must continue to dedicate ourselves to pursuing an America with equal opportunity for all.
01.20.06	01.20.06 Schiff Probes NSA Surveillance Procedures Washington, D.C. – Earlier today, Congressman Adam Schiff and Judiciary Committee Democrats held a briefing on the National Security Agency’s (NSA) surveillance procedures. On December 16th the New York Times reported that the President secretly authorized the NSA to eavesdrop on Americans without court approval. The same day, Congressman Schiff sent a letter to Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner asking for a full hearing to investigate the charges. Congressman Schiff subsequently joined all Judiciary Committee Democrats in a similar letter.Because no hearing was scheduled Members planned today’s briefing as a first step of their constitutionally mandated oversight responsibility. “Obviously, I would have preferred that the full committee conduct this oversight through an official hearing and in a bipartisan fashion. The American people are not served when at least half of the elected representatives on the relevant committee are not willing or able to engage in this discussion. The House of Representatives has once again abdicated its oversight responsibilities,” said Congressman Schiff.“Members of Congress, on both sides of the aisle, share my frustration with learning of this and other executive agency actions through media reports rather than through our constitutionally-mandated oversight responsibilities.” “As a Federal Prosecutor, I prosecuted espionage cases and I’m familiar with how the FISA Court operates. They have a track record of quickly approving government requests, and with the most urgent matters the government can seek post hoc approval. There appears to be no policy justification for the Administration's actions—what may be illegal is also plainly unnecessary,” said Congressman Schiff. Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
01.05.06	01.05.06 Schiff Attends White House Signing of Violence Against Women Act Washington, D.C. – Later today, Congressman Adam Schiff will join President Bush in the Oval Office as he signs the Violence Against Women Act and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act into law. The new law will provide additional funding to combat domestic violence, sexual assault and stalking. The law will also provide grants for local police who target crimes against women. Congressman Schiff was an original cosponsor of the Violence Against Women Act. “As a former prosecutor, I am well aware how women are not only victimized by abuse, but also by faults within our own justice system,” said Congressman Schiff. “The Violence Against Women Act provides protection for women and gives law enforcement more tools to lock-up repeat offenders.”Several provisions authored by Congressman Schiff were included in the Department of Justice sections of this legislation:Law Enforcement Tribute Act: Introduced by Congressman Schiff in July 2001 and first enacted in 2002, the bill helps local and state governments honor men and women who were killed or disabled while serving as public safety officers. This bill was inspired by Glendale Police Officer Charles A. Lazzaretto, who was murdered in the line of duty in 1997. Through this program, Glendale received $10,000 to help build a memorial honoring Lazzaretto and four others officers who gave their lives while serving. Communities across the country wishing to honor slain police officers may be able to apply for funds in the future.G.R.E.A.T.: The Gang Resistance, Education and Training Program, a school-based, law enforcement officer-instructed classroom curriculum that works to prevent delinquency, youth violence and gang membership. The program incorporates over 600 communities in 47 states, with over 1700 officers. Detainee Reporting Requirement: A measure requiring the Attorney General to regularly report to Congress on the status of U.S. citizens and residents detained by the federal government and what standards the Department of Justice uses to designate someone as an enemy combatant. Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
12.22.05	12.22.05 Schiff Returns from Iraq WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff will return later today from an official Congressional Delegation that made stops in Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, and Germany. While in Iraq the delegation met with met with the Commander of the Multinational Security Transition Lt. General Martin Dempsey, Iraqi Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jafaari, Ambassador Khalilzad, Iraqi members of parliament and U.S. troops. Congressman Schiff also hand-delivered hundreds of cards sent to our troops from community groups and students in our district. “I was honored to spend time with the brave men and women of our armed forces,” said Congressman Schiff. “Winning the war on terror and stabilizing the situation in Iraq are the predominant national security challenges facing the nation.”Schiff was joined by Rep. Tom Osborne, (R-NE), Rep. Bob Ney, (R -OH), Rep. Gene Green, (D-TX), Rep. John Boozman, (R-AR), and Rep. Charles Boustany, (R-LA). Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.-30-
12.17.05	12.17.05 Schiff Detainee Measure Passes Congress WASHINGTON, DC – A measure requiring the Attorney General to regularly report to Congress on the status of U.S. citizens detained by the federal government passed Congress as part of the Department of Justice (DOJ) Reauthorization Bill. Schiff originally introduced the measure as an amendment to the DOJ Reauthorization bill in September 2003. The same measure passed the full House in the last Congress but failed to become law when the DOJ Reauthorization bill was stalled in the Senate. This measure is on track to be the first detainee language signed into law by President BushThe Schiff measure requires a report from the Attorney General at least once a year detailing 1) How many U.S. citizens and residents are currently detained and 2) What standards the Department of Justice uses to designate someone as an enemy combatant.Schiff has led House efforts to establish policies governing the detention of enemy combatants during the war on terror. He first introduced legislation setting out the rules for military tribunals over three years ago, and in March he reintroduced the “Detention of Enemy Combatants Act,” a bill that provides access to legal counsel and judicial review for U.S. citizens and residents detained as enemy combatants. Schiff also introduced the first comprehensive bill that provides a legal framework to process detainees in Guantanamo Bay in June (H.R. 3038).Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
12.16.05	12.16.05 A New Day for Iraq Mr. Speaker, the initial reports of yesterday's Iraqi election all point to it having been a remarkable day for the Iraqi people. Although Iraq's security situation remains precarious and the country's economy and much of the infrastructure have yet to be repaired, the past year has seen important progress in the country's political development.More than 11 million Iraqis went to the polls to cast their votes for a new parliament and a new future. Iraq Sunnis who boycotted the polling in January, turned out in force to ensure their voices would be heard in the new legislature. For weeks, Sunni imams had been imploring their congregants to vote and their calls were heeded. Election observers estimated that turnout was in excess of 70 percent nationwide and the turnout was matched by preelection polling that showed a high degree of enthusiasm for and optimism about the elections and what they mean for the future of Iraq.Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of yesterday's voting was the absence of violence. Across the country, only 52 attacks were recorded, and there were no mass casualty incidents. This stands in marked contrast to the January election when voters in polling stations were hit by more than 300 insurgent attacks.Yesterday's relative calm was due to the men and women of our Armed Forces. Our troops and their commanders did a magnificent job over the past months to prepare the country for this crucial election. Even as we celebrate the success of the voting, we cannot overlook the incredible sacrifice of our military men and women. They have performed magnificently, but at an enormous cost.While the election itself was a remarkable achievement, we, our coalition partners and the international community, must move quickly to ensure that Iraq's fragile, nascent democracy is able to flourish.Two days ago I was invited to the White House, along with a number of my Democratic colleagues, to meet with the President and senior administration officials on preparations for the elections and next steps in Iraq. I appreciated the President's efforts to reach across the aisle for unity, and we had a far-reaching discussion on how best to move forward in Iraq. I hope that the President's recent willingness to engage with Members of Congress, and especially Democrats, augers more consultations with the Hill on Iraq and the broader array of national security challenges that confront us.Counting the votes will take days and perhaps weeks, given the sheer number of ballots cast for the more than 300 political parties that registered to compete in the election, as well as the bifurcated nature of allocating seats by province and nationwide.As we move forward, I see a series of five steps as crucial to Iraq's future.First, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, who has done a remarkable job in Kabul and in Baghdad, must work with the Iraqis to assemble a new government that will include the diverse array of Iraqi voices in order to maximize the legitimacy of the government in the eyes of the Iraqi people while minimizing the prospects for the dissolution of Iraq. The apparently strong showing by the secular Iraqi National List, headed by former interim Prime Minister Iyad Allawi, may be an early indicator that a broad-based government may be possible.Second, we must work with a new parliament and help them execute the revisions to Iraq's Constitution that were promised in the days leading up to the October referendum. Constitutional changes that strengthen the power of the central government and ensure that the Sunnis are able to share in the nation's oil wealth will do much to allay the concerns of Iraq's Sunnis.Third, we must ramp up our efforts to train and equip Iraq security forces so that a significant portion of American forces can be redeployed from Iraq with the remainder of American troops adopting a much lower profile. This will allow us to better safeguard the lives of our troops even as we continue to act as the ultimate guarantor for the new Iraqi state.Fourth, we must fracture the insurgency in order to weaken it. The Iraqi insurgents are made up of three distinctly different groups. The first group, the foreign jihadis, must be destroyed. The second group, which is made up of the hard-core Baathists, is also likely to fight to the bitter end. The third wing of the insurgency is composed of disaffected Sunnis who are motivated primarily by the loss of their status in Iraqi society.Yesterday's election and the consolidation of a broad-based government should be instrumental in diminishing the threat from this faction.Finally, we must redouble our efforts to reconstruct Iraq. While there has been some progress in restoring basic services and providing opportunities for Iraqis, there is much work yet to be done. This is an area where we should make a new effort to reach out to the international community and engage them in Iraq's future.Mr. Speaker, yesterday's voting was a triumph for the Iraqi people, for the cause of democracy in the Arab world, and for our Armed Forces; but now we must act quickly and effectively to solidify these political gains.
12.15.05	12.15.05 Saving for a Rainy Day Madam Speaker, the poet Longfellow once wrote: "Thy fate is the common fate of all; into each life some rain must fall.'' How true this is.We know that calamities will come to our Nation. We know that terrorists are trying to attack us again and that Osama bin Laden wants to strike us with weapons of mass destruction. We know that in years to come hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, and other natural disasters will devastate our shores, our towns, our homes, and most terrible, our very lives.We must prepare, not only with a strong military and good infrastructure but also with 0a reserve of funds to cushion the impact to our economy and to meet the needs of the victims. Part of being prepared is doing what many families know as saving for a rainy day.America has seen both prosperity and depressions, periods of unbridled growth and periods of stubborn stagnation. We have seen strong budget surpluses and huge budget deficits.While any economy has periodic cycles of expansion and contraction, we know that fiscally irresponsible policies of an administration or a Congress can abbreviate an upturn or prolong a downturn.Today, a lack of revenue, uncontrolled spending and faulty planning have put our national debt so high that putting our fiscal house in order seems out of reach. I am here to tell you that it is not out of reach. It will take time, but it is possible and it must be done.The Blue Dog Coalition has put together a comprehensive 12-point plan to make needed reforms to our budget process, and one of these critical reforms is the creation of a rainy-day fund to set aside money for good times to pay for disasters, which we know will eventually come.Madam Speaker, as you know, unlike the Federal Government, States must balance their budgets each year. In tough times States must raise revenue or cut spending. And generally, they cannot put these decisions off for another year or another generation. But many States have been resourceful. Forty-five of them, including my own home State of California, have created their own rainy-day funds. These funds are still small, too small and the States are in poor fiscal health. But they have begun the process of planning for their own rainy days.According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, since 2001, States have used around $30 billion from their rainy-day funds and general fund balances to help offset more than $250 billion in deficits.Even during these weak economic times, States must continue to maintain and grow the viability of their rainy-day funds. In California we understand only too well that an earthquake, wildfire, or other calamity can strike our State without notice; and these funds will be crucial to helping Californians deal with the crisis.The Federal Government must also be prepared for the Nation's next crisis; but, sadly, we are not. Even today, this Congress struggles with the unprecedented task of rebuilding the gulf coast after the worst natural disaster in our Nation's history.Because the Federal Government failed to make the proper investment into the levees protecting New Orleans, one of our prized cities now lies in ruins. If we had had the foresight to establish a national rainy-day fund prior to Katrina, immediate fiscal decisions of this Congress could have been so much less painful, the cuts so much less devastating, and we would not have to go so far deeper into debt to come to the aid of our fellow citizens.Imagine also that if Congress properly invested each year into the rainy-day fund, the interest from this fund could be used to make needed infrastructure improvements, the same type of improvements that could have saved the city of New Orleans from such devastating flooding.Congress has so far provided more than $62 billion in emergency funds to respond to Hurricane Katrina, but we know that so much more will be needed. So much more was spent after September 11 and still our Nation's needs are not met.Let us do what we encourage all of our children to do and save for the future. I encourage this Congress to take a strong look at the Blue Dogs' 12-point plan and establish a rainy-day fund.
12.08.05	12.08.05 Schiff Calls for GAO Investigation of IRS WASHINGTON, DC – Earlier today, Congressman Adam Schiff called for a Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation of the IRS practices regarding the tax-exempt status of churches and other houses of worship. Following news reports that All Saints Episcopal Church in Pasadena was under investigation after an anti-war sermon that was given by Rev. George Regas in 2004, Rep. Schiff requested a report from the IRS on its practices. He has now joined with two other members in a bipartisan request for a formal GAO investigation. “While the federal tax code prohibits tax-exempt organizations, including churches, from intervening in political campaigns and elections, the faith community has every right to express itself on the major issues of the day. An overzealous IRS must not be permitted to chill the speech of the nation's clergy on matters of such great importance as war and peace,” said Schiff. The letter asks for an investigation that provides: • Details regarding any IRS inquiries of tax-exempt organizations alleging political campaign activity that have been initiated in the last five years, including a detailed account of the allegedly objectionable content or acts. • An analysis of the genesis or source of each IRS inquiry alleging improper activity in this area.• An analysis of the final resolution of each such IRS inquiry, including a determination of whether such tax-exempt organizations admitted wrongdoing in order to settle the matter with the IRS.Congressmen Walter Jones (R-NC) and Joseph Pitts (R-PA) also signed the letter. GAO is an independent, non-partisan agency that is commonly called the “investigative arm of Congress.” Congressman Schiff the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He was a federal prosecutor in Los Angeles for six years before running for elected office. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
12.08.05	12.08.05 America's Safety Net at Risk Mr. Speaker, in the face of our $8.1 trillion debt, the House recently passed a budget reconciliation bill. This so-called Deficit Reduction Act cut spending by $53 billion by cutting programs like health care for the sick, education benefits for students, child support help for parents, and food stamps for hungry families. Even as supporters of the budget reconciliation bill applauded their own new-found frugality, they knew the savings would never be realized because today the House passed a tax reconciliation bill, erasing the 3-week-old savings of $53 billion with $70 billion in new tax cuts. And most egregiously, the lion's share of these tax cuts benefit the most prosperous among us.At a time when one in seven Americans have no health insurance, the budget bill cut $11 billion for Medicaid, the most basic part of America's safety net. It further empowered health care providers to turn away patients who are unable to pay. This was not only uncaring but fiscally unwise. It will cost our Nation more certainly in the long run when significant health problems are left untreated.Mr. Speaker, with a Federal debt now of $8 trillion, every American owes $27,000. Americans understand that the inability of the administration and Congress to balance the budget will have a disastrous effect on future generations. Imagine leaving our kids with an unpaid $27,000 credit card bill and more interest on the way.But holding back medical treatment for chronically ill children is not the way to restore fiscal discipline. Neither is making cuts to education that will close the doors of opportunity to a generation of students. The budget bill cut student loan programs by more than $14 billion. With new fees and higher interest rates, educational opportunities will be lost, and all of the stimulus to the economy that would have been generated by all those new engineers and scientists will be lost with them.Does our Nation truly benefit economically or otherwise by pushing so many deeper into poverty, or by closing the doors to higher education? In the wake of Hurricane Katrina and all that it revealed about the persistence of poverty in America, can we really have a more secure future with a less effective safety net?I am proud to be a member of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of moderate and conservative Democrats concerned about fiscal responsibilities. I join my Blue Dog colleagues in seeking ways to reduce the debt; but we were compelled to oppose this bill because it was a sham, a debt increase that made the poor poorer, the rich richer, and the country's future even more precarious. Any reasonable look at the numbers will easily reveal the truth: these bills result in an increase to the national debt.As a Nation, we have gone from an $86 billion surplus under President Clinton in 2000 to a record $412 billion deficit last year. Our fiscal house is more than out of order; it is spiraling out of control.What we need right now is a balanced budget strategy and one that honors the values of the American people, that rewards work not wealth, that requires the sacrifice of all Americans for the common good and not the sacrifice alone of the poor, the young, or the infirm.
11.18.05	11.18.05 Schiff Secures Funding for Metrolink Safety Improvements WASHINGTON, DC – Following January’s deadly Metrolink crash, Congressman Adam Schiff has re-focused federal efforts on improving the safety and security of Southern California’s regional rail. Congress approved his request for $500,000 in federal funding to pay for critical safety improvements to Metrolink including median separators and locked gates to limit vehicular access to rail tracks.The bill also included language offered by Congressman Schiff that requires the Federal Railroad Administration to study safety practices called into question after the derailment of a Metrolink train in Glendale.“With Los Angeles’s notorious traffic problems and rising gas prices, our community increasingly relies on rail transit. I am working in Congress to ensure regional rail remains a safe and affordable alternative,” said Schiff.The funding was included in H.R. 3058, the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, Judiciary, District of Columbia Appropriations Act 2006.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
11.18.05	11.18.05 Schiff Secures Funding for Alhambra's Veterans Freedom Plaza WASHINGTON, DC – As part of his ongoing effort to honor veterans in our community, Congressman Adam Schiff secured $250,000 in federal funding for a Veterans Freedom Plaza in Alhambra. The City of Alhambra approved a plan to construct a public plaza that includes a statue and mural dedicated to local heroes as well as a tribute to fallen soldiers.Alhambra has a proud tradition of military service including General George S. Patton, the grandson of city founding father Don Benito Wilson, and Tom Pope, a World War I veteran and Medal of Honor recipient.Congressman Schiff is also an original cosponsor of the New GI Bill of Rights for the 21st Century, comprehensive legislation that helps veterans cope with increasing health care costs, improves education benefits, and provides their families with assistance. Congressman Schiff has also convened a veterans working group to assist veterans and show appreciation when local units return from service.The funding was included in H.R. 3058, the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, Judiciary, District of Columbia Appropriations Act 2006.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
11.18.05	11.18.05 Supporting an Honest National Debate on Iraq Mr. Speaker, yesterday my colleague from Pennsylvania, a man whom I deeply respect and admire for his lifetime of service and sacrifice to the Nation, made a serious statement about the prosecution of the war effort by the President. His speech yesterday morning and the resolution that he introduced were heartfelt expressions that he no longer believes that we can stay the course in Iraq. Mr. Murtha believes that the continued presence of American troops in Iraq has retarded Iraqi efforts to unify the country and that Iraqis will not take the necessary steps to restore security as long as American troops remain in the country in large numbers.But instead of addressing the serious deficiencies in the Administration's military strategy, the majority offers this counterfeit resolution that precludes any debate on how we can improve our chance of success in the war effort.Although there are differences within our caucus as to what our course of action in Iraq should be, we are united in our belief that the present course being followed by the administration is not working, and we must find a new course.But how have the Vice-President and the Republican Majority in this House treated the sincere misgivings of a man who has shed blood for his country and been a staunch supporter of our men and women in the military? They have launched a vicious smear attack on Mr. Murtha's patriotism. Indeed they have gone so far as assert that anyone who questions the wisdom of any aspect of their handling of the war is unpatriotic, and willing to give aid and comfort to the enemy. Unfortunately, the administration's inability to communicate a clear strategy for success in Iraq has caused a great many Americans to question the Nation's prosecution of the war--including some of the most devoted, most patriotic and most courageous of Americans. People like former Senator Max Cleland, and now Jack Murtha.But I believe that Senator Chuck Hagel has it right--the willingness to question, to prod and to probe our government is what produces the best policy and leads to the best outcomes, in war as well as in peace. The courage to question a powerful but imperfect government is much more the essence of patriotism than a coerced silence. The administration's prosecution of the war effort has suffered from deficient planning that took the maxim of preparing for the worst and hoping for the best and turned it on its head. It failed to consider how the Sunni minority would react to being stripped of its privileged status, even as they underestimated the consequences of decades of totalitarian rule and the atomization of Iraqi society under Saddam Hussein.Many of my colleagues and I have repeatedly called upon the President to do what should have been done a long time ago by laying out a strategy and vision for success in Iraq that will not condemn the Iraqi people to anarchy or turn Iraq into a haven for jihadis. We have called for proper oversight of the war effort by Congress to make certain that our troops in Iraq are properly equipped and that we are doing everything in our power to ensure their safety and success.This House, this Congress and this Nation stand for the proposition that reasoned debate can produce wise policies that will best ``provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.'' Mr. Speaker, this resolution should be withdrawn.
11.16.05	11.16.05 Condemning the Terrorist Attacks in Jordan Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of House Resolution 546 and yield myself such time as I may consume.I first want to thank the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms. Ros-Lehtinen), the chairwoman for the Subcommittee on Middle East and Central Asia, for offering this important and timely resolution.I would also like to acknowledge my friend and ranking member of the Middle East Subcommittee, the gentleman from New York (Mr. Ackerman), for his role in the crafting of the measure.Mr. Speaker, 1 week ago today, hateful and heartless fanatics committed a vile crime against the people of Jordan. The terrorists' immediate victims were the unsuspecting guests of three hotels, in one particularly sickening case, a wedding party at the height of its celebration where both bride and groom were of the Islamic faith.This brutal attack killed scores of civilians, injured hundreds of others, and forever scarred the hearts of the victims' loved ones. Through these heinous acts against their own brothers and sisters, the terrorists demonstrate once again that they are not merely enemies of Western Civilization but of all civilization.But the broader target of this assault was the public of a country that has been a stalwart ally of the United States in the global war on terrorism. This is not the first time that the people of Jordan have been victimized in a terrorist attack, but it is by far the most extensive offense against innocent civilians in Jordan by ruthless fanatics since the war on terrorism began.To their great credit, the Jordanian people are not retreating in defeat, but are declaring their defiance. They are not making excuses for these vile enemies of all mankind, but are demanding accountability. They are not cowering in their homes, but taking to the streets in protest.Mr. Speaker, the resolution before us condemns last week's reprehensible events in Amman and expresses our solidarity with the people of Jordan. It also declares our country's readiness to support Jordanian authorities in their efforts to bring the perpetrators to justice and to eradicate the networks that plot and carry out such attacks.As our country knows all too well after September 11, and as all others who have sustained years of wanton terrorist carnage in the name of religious fundamentalism know all too well, there can be but one response to such inhumanity: unified resolve to bring it swiftly and irreversibly to an end.This vicious crime must also serve as a cautionary tale to those in the Arab world who are content to stand by and watch as Iraqi security forces and American troops battle to defeat the vicious insurgency and the foreign jihadis who are indiscriminate in their slaughter.We may be the primary targets of Zarqawi today, but he and his ilk are determined to destroy modernity and retard social and political progress throughout the Muslim world in the name of a perverted interpretation of Islam. As the carnage in Amman made clear, the war on terror is a shared endeavor in which the Arab people must play a central role in the victory over terror.Mr. Speaker, this resolution expresses our profound outrage at this vicious attack and our profound sympathy and solidarity with our Jordanian friends at this time of their sorrow. I urge all of my colleagues to support the resolution.Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
11.15.05	11.15.05 Schiff Asks IRS for Answers in All Saints Episcopal Church Investigation Earlier today, Congressman Adam Schiff sent the following letter to Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson:Dear Secretary Snow and Commissioner Everson,I am concerned about a troubling report in the Los Angeles Times regarding a June 9, 2005 letter from the IRS to All Saints Episcopal Church in Pasadena indicating that the church is at risk of losing its tax-exempt status based on a sermon delivered on October 31, 2004 by former rector Rev. George F. Regas. I do not believe that Rev. Regas relinquished his First Amendment rights when he became a clergyman, nor that the church should be at risk of losing its tax-exemption when its clergy or congregants comment on public matters.Although I was not present at the sermon, it appears that the allegations of wrongdoing are based on a newspaper account and the facts of that press report do not appear to justify either the investigation or the chilling effect it is likely to occasion. While the federal tax code prohibits tax-exempt organizations, including churches, from intervening in political campaigns and elections, the actions by the IRS in this case appear to be wholly unwarranted. And I would raise this issue whether I agreed or disagreed with the sentiments expressed by Rev. Regas, or any other church or clergy.While tax-exempt religious organizations are not permitted to specifically endorse a candidate in an upcoming election nor allow its offices to be used for campaign purposes, the faith community has every right to express itself in the political process and be heard. IRS Publication 1828, entitled "Tax Guide for Churches and Religious Organizations," specifically states that the political campaign activity prohibition does not prohibit church leaders from speaking about important issues of public policy. In fact, each "example" of impermissible activity in the publication includes a specific political endorsement of or statement in opposition to a candidate -- pivotal facts which appear to be lacking in this case.I am also troubled by reports that the IRS offered to not proceed to the exam stage and revoke tax-exempt status if the church admitted wrongdoing. Unless the IRS possesses information separate and apart from the published account of the sermon in question, I do not see the basis for an admission of wrongdoing, and I request that you provide me with information regarding the specific content that you allege to be improper and an accounting of the specific IRC sections implicated.In light of these troubling reports, I also ask that you provide information regarding the following:- Details regarding any IRS inquiries of tax-exempt organizations alleging political campaign activity that have been initiated in the last five years. - The number of inquiries related to alleged criticism of the current Administration's policies and the number related to alleged promotion of those policies. - The number of inquiries initiated based on newspaper accounts of the alleged improper activity.- The number of tax-exempt organizations that have admitted wrongdoing in order to settle the matter with the IRS.As you can well appreciate, the actions of the IRS in this matter will have a potentially chilling impact on protected First Amendment rights. Your responsiveness to this letter will be critical in determining whether a formal congressional inquiry is warranted. I look forward to your prompt response.Sincerely, ADAM B. SCHIFFMember of Congress
11.10.05	11.10.05 In Recognition of All Veterans Who Have Served Mr. Speaker, this week we honor our Nation's veterans--not just the thousands who have risked their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan, but the millions more who over the years have answered the call to arms and served as a member of the United States Armed Forces.Since the founding of this Nation, Americans have battled courageously to protect the helpless, defeat despots and spread the cause of freedom to every corner of the globe. Most of the men and women who served in World War I are no longer with us. World War II, Korea and Vietnam veterans still walk among us today, and we owe them the most heartfelt gratitude. The torch was passed to a new generation after the horrific terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Since then, hundreds of thousands of young people have donned the uniform of a soldier, Marine, sailor or airman in our Global War on Terrorism. They have chosen an often arduous life not for fame or riches, but because they believe in America and her ideals. These great young people have embraced the challenge. From the dusty streets of Iraq to the jagged mountains of Afghanistan, they have done their duty with honor, fighting for their country and each other. I have traveled overseas several times to Iraq and Afghanistan to meet our military personnel and have witnessed them doing their job magnificently; they fight voluntarily on our behalf. I was awed by their courage, determination and dedication as they combat a brutal enemy thousands of miles from home. The times have changed, but the sacrifices have not. More than 2,000 U.S. service members have been killed and over 16,000 have been wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. We in Congress must honor our veterans not just with words, but with deeds. The survivors of those who make the ultimate sacrifice must be cared for in a manner that honors their memory. Benefits and health care must remain readily available for service members and their families--active duty, Reserve or Guard. And those wounded warriors who return home must be mended back to health, in body and spirit.In my district, I have convened a working group to assist veterans in every possible way. The goal of this group is for communities to create innovative and effective programs which show appreciation and offer financial, moral and physical support for veterans. Over 25 million U.S. veterans live among us today. You may know one. Pause a moment and thank them for their service. They deserve no less.
11.09.05	11.09.05 Congress Supports Key Elements of Schiff's Kids First Initiative WASHINGTON, DC – Later today, the House is expected to pass legislation that includes key support for Congressman Adam Schiff’s “Kids First” agenda of initiatives to improve education, safety, and health care for our children. Several local organizations will receive support:• Childrens Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA) – Pediatric Cancer Research. Funds will provide support for ongoing research at CHLA that is focused on the proteins that malfunction in cancer and other childhood diseases. “Childrens Hospital is an internationally recognized leader in pediatric cancer research,” said Schiff. “As a father of two young children, I am especially inspired by their dedication to finding a cure for this deadly disease.”• Hillsides Altadena Family Center of Altadena – Teen Leadership Institute (TLI). TLI offers leadership development training for at-risk youth by teaching them to be role models for younger children. TLI teaches the teenagers skills and values that include academic success, decision-making, leadership initiative, effective communication, emotional well-being and classroom management. • Foothill Family Service of Pasadena – “Future Success/Future Visions” Therapy Program for At-Risk Children. Studies show that the brothers and sisters of teen parents are at extremely high risk of becoming teen parents themselves. This program provides mentors for at-risk children. Federal funds will allow Foothill Family Service to hire an additional teen specialist to expand their services. • Day One of Pasadena – Drug-Free Alternative Activities for Youth. Funds will be used to extend to year-round their August program that provides youth most at risk for substance abuse with healthy, educational activities. Youth will be involved in planning leadership and educational summits for their peers as well as designing and creating safe and fun activities to help reduce alcohol and drug abuse. • We Care for Youth (WCFY) – Anti-Gang Program for High School Students in Glendale, Burbank and Pasadena. WCFY is a non-profit organization working to reduce violence among teenagers. Federal funds will allow WCFY to expand its successful anti-gang program and provide 4,500 teenagers with during and after-school workshops teaching violence prevention. Through mentoring and other activities, they will receive the leadership and self-confidence building measures they need to resist joining a gang.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
11.09.05	11.09.05 Funding the Important Work of the Jet Propulsion Madam Speaker, from the dawn of civilization, man has peered out into the heavens and dreamt of exploring the vast expanses of our universe. During the past half century, from America's first satellite, the grapefruit-sized Explorer I, to the International Space Station now being built 200 miles above us, human beings have begun to learn how to operate in the harsh environs of space.Our unmanned space probes--from the Ranger and Surveyor craft that paved the way for Apollo to the Voyager spacecraft that explored the outer planets--continue to increase our understanding of the universe. Everyone of the ambitious American space probes that has visited another planet has been managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena, California. It is for this reason, I am proud that the conference report covering NASA operations includes full support of the work of JPL on the Mars exploration program and the Space Interferometry Mission. NASA's Mars exploration program embodies the President's vision for space exploration. It will expand our knowledge of one of our neighbors in the solar system and pave the way for a manned mission to Mars. NASA's search for planets and life beyond our solar system is also having increasing and dramatic success with more than 150 planets now discovered. With full funding, the Space Interferometry Mission will examine over two thousand stars for planetary systems, fulfilling a critical step in the search for Earth-like planets. For their strong support of this vision, I would like to thank Chairman LEWIS and Ranking Member OBEY. I would also like to thank Chairman WOLF and Ranking Member MOLLOHAN for meeting on several occasions to discuss the important work of JPL. In addition to expanding our reach into the depths of the universe, the space research program at JPL will have additional benefits here on Earth. According to economists, investment in research and development has one of the highest rates of return in the long-run. While public investment in research and development in other nations has increased in recent years, it has stagnated in the United States. Full funding for the work at JPL demonstrates our continuing commitment to research in the sciences. The space exploration program also has an impact on young people. Generations of students have been inspired to enter scientific fields by stunning images from the heavens. The funding for cooperative education programs between NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory and Griffith Observatory recognizes the importance of encouraging more students to enter scientific fields. With our commitment to the programs at NASA's Jet Propulsion laboratory, we are pursuing both the human quest to understand our universe and the American quest for continuing leadership in space exploration.
11.04.05	11.04.05 Asian Business Provision Passes House WASHINGTON, DC – Several Asian business owners reported problems at California ports after their legal merchandise was held for inspection for prolonged periods of time. Congressman Adam Schiff and Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard met with FDA inspectors, explained the concerns of the business owners and called for improvements to inspection practices. As a result of these meetings the House of Representatives passed a provision that directs the FDA to work closely with and be more responsive to the concerns of ethnic food importers. “Congresswoman Roybal-Allard and I are working together to protect small business owners and ensure the federal government treats importers fairly while protecting our nation’s security,” said Congressman Schiff.“The need to quickly move imported ethnic foods is extremely important to our many Asian-American constituents, and I am pleased that the Appropriations Committee, on which I serve, has emphasized its importance to the Food and Drug Administration. We'll continue to work closely with FDA and local businesses to resolve any bureaucratic problems that prevent safe and needed foods from reaching the marketplace in a timely manner,” said Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard. If your family or business is having a problem with a federal agency please contact Schiff’s Pasadena office at 626-304-2727. Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
11.04.05	11.04.05 Supporting Our Foreign Policy Priorities Mr. Speaker, I strongly support the conference report and congratulate the Chair and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Foreign Operations for their leadership in crafting this important legislation and for their work in ensuring that crucial national security priorities are appropriately funded.Even as our troops are still engaged in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, new challenges to our Nation's security and diplomatic interests are emerging. This bill does a good job of meeting these challenges within the confines of an extremely tight budgetary environment.I am particularly pleased that the conference agreement includes $75 million in assistance to Armenia and $3 million for Nagorno Karabagh. The conferees also agreed to maintain the military assistance parity between Armenia and Azerbaijan by approving $5 million in Foreign Military Financing, FMF, and $750,000 in International Military Education and Training, IMET, for both countries. Through these appropriations, the conferees have continued to advance the political and economic development of the Caucasus, while also increasing stability in the region.I was also heartened to see that the conferees continued this country's longstanding support for our democratic ally Israel by providing $2.5 billion in assistance for Israel, including $2.3 billion for military grants, and $240 million in economic assistance.At the same time, the Congress has wisely met the president's request for $150 million for development programs for Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza, $75 million more than the current level. Only by helping the Palestinian people to break the cycle of poverty and hopelessness can we hope to realize the vision of a two-state solution to decades of conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. I believe that it is wise that our assistance to the Palestinians goes to private voluntary organizations (20 percent) or to contractors (80 percent), all of which are selected and monitored by USAID. While I hope that Abu Mazen will be able to end the corruption in the PA, I think that it is prudent that the U.S. forego direct transfers to the PA until there is greater transparency and accountability.This has been a difficult year for our relationship with Egypt. Even as Cairo has proven a valuable partner in helping to facilitate the Israeli pullout from Gaza, the country's moves towards democracy have been halting. I think that this bill properly funds our priorities by appropriating $1.8 billion in aid for Egypt--$1.3 billion for military grants, and $495 million in economic assistance with $50 million of the economic assistance directed to programs that promote democracy and human rights, and $50 million be for education, including $5 million for scholarships for disadvantaged Egyptian students.At a time when the United States is viewed with skepticism and outright hostility in many parts of the world, foreign assistance and disaster relief is one of the most effective ways to change negative views of our country. In the wake of the tsunami last December and the October 8 earthquake in Pakistan, the generosity of the American people has been a strong force for advancing our national interests abroad, even as we wrestled with the aftermath of a devastating series of hurricanes here at home.As the Congress and the President begin to work on the Fiscal Year 2007 budget for foreign operations, I hope that we will remember that feeding the hungry, healing the sick and helping those left homeless by nature's fury can play an important role in making the United States more secure and more respected by the rest of the world.Again, I thank my colleagues for their work on this important legislation and offer my wholehearted support.
11.03.05	11.03.05 Passport to Homeownership: A First-Time Homebuyer Fair When: Saturday, November 12, 2005Time: 10:00 a.m. - 2:30 p.m.Where: Almansor Court 700 South Almansor Street in AlhambraWho: Congressman Adam Schiff, the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, representatives from the City of Alhambra, the State of California, mortgage lenders, realtors, and first-time homebuyer organizationsJoin us for this free event to learn about programs designed to help you prepare for that first home purchase. Representatives will discuss:Special assistance programs for teachers, public safety officers, and all first-time homebuyersPrograms for low- to moderate-income households that require little or no down paymentLoans with deferred payments and layered financingWorkshops will be conducted in English, Mandarin and Spanish. Participants will be able to get a free copy and analysis of their credit report.Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.28.05	10.28.05 Court Security Bill Passes Committee WASHINGTON, DC – Federal, state and local judges are facing greater threats, from the deadly attacks inside an Atlanta courtroom to the horrible murder of Chicago Federal Judge Lefkow’s family. In response to these and other horrific incidents the House Judiciary Committee passed the “Secure Access to Justice and Court Protection Act of 2005,” a bill that increases protections for judges and other officers of the court. The bill included two provisions offered by Congressman Schiff:Provides Grants to Each State: Since most criminal prosecutions occur at the local level, grants will be distributed to states so they may individually assess and enhance their local security procedures. Increases Funding for U.S. Marshals: This provision created a proactive unit within the U.S. Marshals for the protection of judicial officers. This unit will investigate threats and provide a protective detail to members of the judiciary and federal prosecutors.“This legislation sends a powerful message to those who would threaten, intimidate or attack members of the Judiciary,” said Congressman Schiff. “As a former federal prosecutor I understand the chilling affect these violent assaults have on the courtroom. This bill provides critical tools to increase the protection of judges, lawyers, jurors and other court staff.” Congressman Schiff is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch and a member of the House Judiciary Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.28.05	10.28.05 Condemning Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Threats Against Israel Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me time.Mr. Speaker, anyone who held out hope that despite his reputation as a hard liner that Iran's new president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, would adopt a more statesmanlike posture in office, has been bitterly, tragically, and unequivocally set straight. The Iranian dictator has instead chosen the role of international outlaw.With his remarks 2 days ago that Israel must be wiped off the map, the Iranian strongman showed utter disregard for human life and for the central principle of the United Nations and the modern international system. Ahmadinejad's outrageous remarks were reinforced today by massive demonstrations in Iran that further threaten to ignite tensions in a volatile region of the world and undermine the fragile Israeli/Palestinian peace negotiations.What makes Ahmadinejad's remarks all the more disturbing is that they come at a time when Iran is actively pursuing nuclear weapons that could make his harsh rhetoric a reality. How can the world stand by while an outlaw nation attempts to gain nuclear weapons? How can the world stand by while an outlaw nation announces its despotic intentions to annihilate millions of people? Should Iran one day act on its murderous intent, how can the world claim surprise?As our ranking member, the gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos), points outs, sometimes a madman means exactly what he says. The world must unite to condemn these threats and this episode must stiffen the resolve of Europe and the United Nations to ensure that Tehran will never, never acquire nuclear weapons.I thank the chairman and the ranking member for the leadership in offering this resolution, and I am proud to sponsor it.
10.27.05	10.27.05 Schiff Statement on Harriet Miers WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff made the following statement:"Significant questions have been raised about the strength of Harriet Miers’ background and qualifications for the Supreme Court. Nonetheless, she deserved a fair hearing and should not have been forced to withdraw her nomination prior to confirmation proceedings. The inconsistent and often problematic manner in which the White House defended her nomination contributed to its failure, as did the increasingly poisonous climate surrounding all nominations. This does not serve the courts or the country well. I hope that the White House will nominate a well-qualified and mainstream candidate that has a history of respect for the individual rights and freedoms, and that the next nomination will be advanced and considered in a more dignified fashion," said Congressman Schiff.Congressman Schiff is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus on the Judicial Branch and a member of the House Judiciary Committee. He is also a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.27.05	10.27.05 House Passes Schiff Resolution Congratulating Israel on New U.N. Role WASHINGTON, DC - The House passed a resolution today (H. Res. 368) congratulating Israel on the election of its UN Ambassador, Dan Gillerman, as a Vice-President of the United Nations General Assembly. Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) introduced the resolution in July, with Congressman Steve Chabot (R-OH), Vice-Chairman of the Middle East and Central Asia Subcommittee.Gillerman is the first Israeli to be elected to that post in over five decades. The only other Israeli was Abba Eban, who held the position in 1952.The resolution applauds the election of Israel's Ambassador as Vice-President and calls on Congress to support continued expansion of Israel's role at the United Nations. The resolution also calls on UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan to end the vilification of Israel at the UN and support Israel's right to join the Asian regional grouping. Geographically, Israel belongs in the Asian regional group, but several Arab states in that group have refused to permit Israel's entry. This exclusion has prevented Israel from serving as President of the General Assembly or as a member of any bureau in the General Assembly and its main committees.As of 2000, Israel became a temporary member of the Western European and Other States Group (WEOG), which includes the United States. On April 21, 2005, Israel was nominated as a candidate for Vice-President of the 60th General Assembly and was elected by the 191 members of the General Assembly on June 13, 2005."This is an important victory for our friend and ally, Israel." Schiff said. "We will continue to work to expand Israel’s role at the United Nations."Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California's 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.27.05	10.27.05 Schiff Offers Frivolous Lawsuit Abuse Amendment Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.I rise today to offer an amendment in the nature of a substitute to H.R. 420, the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2005, with the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Kind).I thank the Rules Committee for affording us this opportunity to offer and debate our substitute amendment on the floor today.Mr. Chairman, the base bill certainly has an important and worthy stated goal of cracking down on the filing of frivolous lawsuits. As a former Federal prosecutor and a member of the bar, I strongly support this meritorious goal, as any responsible attorney should.However, I am forced to oppose the legislation in its current form as it contains a number of serious deficiencies which I believe the substitute amendment will remedy. First, the legislation would revert to a failed regime that has been soundly criticized by those best equipped to comment on the proposed changes, the Federal judiciary.Second, the legislation would inappropriately involve the States in the application of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. And, third, the legislation's forum-shopping provisions drastically change State venue laws to benefit foreign corporations over domestic corporations and victims, to say nothing of doing a great deal to damage States' rights.Finally, the legislation would harm those seeking relief from civil rights violations. Instead, I ask my colleagues to support the Schiff-Kind substitute amendment, a proposal that would crack down vigorously on frivolous lawsuits. Members on both sides of the aisle agree that our laws and rules of procedure must prohibit frivolous litigation.Our substitute amendment has a strong three-strikes-and-you-are-out provision for attorneys who file frivolous lawsuits. Unlike the base bill, these frivolous proceedings and pleadings could have been filed in any court. The mandatory sanctions begin after the very first violation; but after the third, the attorney shall be found in contempt of court and referred to the appropriate State bar associations for disciplinary proceedings, including suspension.Unlike the base bill, the third sanction can also include disbarment.Our substitute amendment also has strong three-strikes-and-you-are-out provisions for attorneys who engage in frivolous conduct during discovery, including causing unnecessary delay or needless increases in the costs of litigation. Again, mandatory sanctions begin after the first violation, and a third violation in any Federal court can include suspension and even disbarment.Our substitute also limits the ability of wrongdoers to conceal any conduct harmful to the public welfare by requiring that such court records not be sealed unless the court finds that a sealing is justified. This important provision will help ensure that information on dangerous products and actions is made available to the public.The Schiff-Kind substitute also includes tough enhanced sanctions for document destruction by parties punishable by mandatory sanctions under Rule 11 and referral to the appropriate State bars for disciplinary proceedings, including disbarment. We also include strong language to provide a presumption of a Rule 11 violation for repeatedly relitigating the same issue.I am pleased that some of these important provisions have recently been added to the base bill. The venue provisions, however, in section 4 of the base bill would recast State and Federal court jurisdiction and venue in personal injury cases.This section would actually operate to provide a litigation and financial windfall to foreign corporations at the expense of their domestic competitors. Instead of permitting claims to be filed wherever a corporation does business or has minimum contacts, as most State long-arm jurisdiction statutes provide, section 4 only permits the suit to be brought where the defendant's principal place of business is located.This means that it would be far more difficult to pursue a personal injury or product liability action against a foreign corporation in the United States. In fact, this section could operate to make it impossible to sue a foreign corporation in this country, only further promoting the disturbing process of corporations in our country relocating their headquarters overseas to avoid U.S. taxes.This is bad policy. And our substitute amendment includes language to ensure that jurisdiction for such legal actions is not limited in this manner.Finally, by requiring a mandatory sanctions regime that would apply to civil rights cases, the base bill will chill many legitimate and important civil rights actions. This is due to the fact that much, if not most, of the impetus for the 1993 changes stemmed from abuses by defendants in civil rights cases, namely, the civil rights defendants were choosing to harass civil rights plaintiffs by filing a series of Rule 11 motions intended to slow down and impede meritorious civil rights cases.A 1991 Federal judicial study found that the incidence of Rule 11 sanctions or sua sponte orders is higher in civil rights cases than in some other types of cases. Another study found that there is ample evidence to suggest that plaintiffs in civil rights cases, plaintiffs in particular, were far more likely than defendants to be the target of Rule 11 motions and the recipient of sanctions.While the base bill purports to encourage that the provisions not be applied to civil rights cases, the fact of the matter is it does not explicitly exempt civil rights cases as our substitute does.Mr. Chairman, this is a commonsense substitute. It cracks down on frivolous lawsuits in a tough fashion, but without jeopardizing civil rights claims or providing unnecessary shields to foreign corporations. It is a better bill, and I urge the House to adopt the substitute rather than the base proposal. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
10.27.05	10.27.05 Mourning the Loss of Civil Rights Icon Rosa Parks Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Ms. Rosa Parks who died on October 24, 2005 at the age of 92.In 1955, Rosa Parks was a seamstress, housekeeper and volunteer at the local NAACP chapter in Montgomery, Alabama. One winter evening, the 42-year-old was riding a city bus home after a long day of work. Rather than give up her seat to a white person, she chose to be arrested, setting off a 381-day boycott of the bus system organized by a young Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. Her simple act of defiance was an important catalyst in the Civil Rights Movement. She was arrested and later found guilty by a local court of violating segregation, but her case eventually went to the U.S. Supreme Court which overturned the Jim Crow-era laws. Many civil rights pioneers would fight against injustice, helping advance genuine equality among citizens. Yet Rosa Parks was unique; a true American icon who embodied the notion that one person can make a difference, that a snowball can turn into an avalanche. She was the anonymous victim of discrimination whose fame quickly spread; a woman of profound inner-strength and deep conviction who selflessly volunteered herself for the greater cause of liberty. Her bravery galvanized thousands to use non-violent means to move Congress to pass landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation. Two years ago, I joined a civil rights pilgrimage to Selma, Montgomery and Birmingham, Alabama. Led by Representative John Lewis and the Faith in Politics Institute, the pilgrimage took Members of the House and Senate to the sites of many of the civil rights struggles of the 1950s and 1960s. It was an unforgettable experience. All of the Members of Congress felt as I did, how lucky we were to visit these sites: the Edmund Pettus Bridge, the Dexter Avenue King Memorial Church, the 16th Street Baptist Church, the Civil Rights Institute and the Rosa Parks Museum, with some of the activists who led the movement. To see these places through their eyes, to hear them describe what it was like when the very church we were sitting in was under siege by an angry mob of segregationists, to witness tears come down their cheeks as they thought of where they had been and where we were standing. As we reflected on the moving events of the pilgrimage, the Members of Congress--many like me, too young to remember well the civil rights movement--kept asking ourselves two questions: What would I have done? Would I have been an activist, or, like so many Americans, simply indifferent? And what about today? What is the contemporary relevance of the civil rights movement? The more we pondered what we would have done, black or white, had we been born into 1960's Alabama, and the more we asked ourselves about what we could do to advance the civil rights movement today, the more I began to realize that the two questions were really interconnected. The best window into what we would have done, the best insight into what might have been, can be gleaned from what we do in the future. While America today provides all of its citizens with more opportunities and better protects those most vulnerable, too many still face vestiges of bigotry. We can look to the Civil Rights Movement to inspire us to build a greater and more just society, but we must learn from the example set by Rosa Parks that each of us must take an affirmative step to ensure that our country remains faithful to the ideals of its founding. If we dedicate ourselves to the cause of racial justice, arm ourselves with an appreciation of history, and commit ourselves to the provision of equal opportunity to all, we will stand on the frontier of the new civil rights movement. And that would be the most fitting pilgrimage of all.
10.26.05	10.26.05 Schiff Mourns the Loss of Civil Rights Icon Rosa Parks WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) had the following statement on the passing of Civil Rights Icon, Rosa Parks:"I rise today to honor the life of Ms. Rosa Parks who died on October 24, 2005 at the age of 92.""In 1955, Rosa Parks was a seamstress, housekeeper and volunteer at the local NAACP chapter in Montgomery, Alabama. One winter evening, the 42-year-old was riding a city bus home after a long day of work. Rather than give up her seat to a white person, she chose to be arrested, setting off a 381-day boycott of the bus system organized by a young Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. Her simple act of defiance was an important catalyst in the Civil Rights Movement. She was arrested and later found guilty by a local court of violating segregation, but her case eventually went to the U.S. Supreme Court which overturned the Jim Crow-era laws.""Many civil rights pioneers would fight against injustice, helping advance genuine equality among citizens. Yet Rosa Parks was unique; a true American icon who embodied the notion that one person can make a difference, that a snowball can turn into an avalanche. She was the anonymous victim of discrimination whose fame quickly spread; a woman of profound inner-strength and deep conviction who selflessly volunteered herself for the greater cause of liberty. Her bravery galvanized thousands to use non-violent means to move Congress to pass landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation.""Two years ago, I joined a civil rights pilgrimage to Selma, Montgomery and Birmingham, Alabama. Led by Representative John Lewis and the Faith in Politics Institute, the pilgrimage took Members of the House and Senate to the sites of many of the civil rights struggles of the 1950s and 1960s. It was an unforgettable experience. All of the Members of Congress felt as I did, how lucky we were to visit these sites: the Edmund Pettus Bridge, the Dexter Avenue King Memorial Church, the 16th Street Baptist Church, the Civil Rights Institute and the Rosa Parks Museum, with some of the activists who led the movement. To see these places through their eyes, to hear them describe what it was like when the very church we were sitting in was under siege by an angry mob of segregationists, to witness tears come down their cheeks as they thought of where they had been and where we were standing.""As we reflected on the moving events of the pilgrimage, the Members of Congress--many like me, too young to remember well the civil rights movement--kept asking ourselves two questions: What would I have done? Would I have been an activist, or, like so many Americans, simply indifferent? And what about today? What is the contemporary relevance of the civil rights movement?""The more we pondered what we would have done, black or white, had we been born into 1960's Alabama, and the more we asked ourselves about what we could do to advance the civil rights movement today, the more I began to realize that the two questions were really interconnected.""The best window into what we would have done, the best insight into what might have been, can be gleaned from what we do in the future. While America today provides all of its citizens with more opportunities and better protects those most vulnerable, too many still face vestiges of bigotry. We can look to the Civil Rights Movement to inspire us to build a greater and more just society, but we must learn from the example set by Rosa Parks that each of us must take an affirmative step to ensure that our country remains faithful to the ideals of its founding. If we dedicate ourselves to the cause of racial justice, arm ourselves with an appreciation of history, and commit ourselves to the provision of equal opportunity to all, we will stand on the frontier of the new civil rights movement. And that would be the most fitting pilgrimage of all."Congressman Schiff is the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security and a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
10.03.05	10.03.05 Information and Resources for Victims of the California Wildfires Our hearts go out to those in our Southern California community whose lives and property have been devastated by the California wildfires. Below are links to websites that provide up-to-date fire information, ways in which Californians can provide assistance, and where help for victims can be found. Victims HotlineToll-free registration for disaster victims.1-800-621-FEMA1-800-462-7585 (TTD) ResourcesReceive help and guidance from various federal, state and local agencies.Federal EmergencyManagement Agency Evacuation Centers Small Business Administration Disaster Loans CA Dept. of Fire and Forestry FactsUp-to-date information on the spreading and containment of fires.USDA Forest Service National Parks ServiceBureau of Land ManagementRed Cross Fire Weather InformationNewsLate-breaking stories on the spread of fires and the efforts to help Californians. Los Angeles TimesBurbank LeaderGlendale News-PressLA Daily NewsPasadena Star NewsHealth Information on possible health effects of fire-induced air pollution. Los Angeles Department of Health ServicesEnvironmental Protection AgencyHelp Ways to help the victims. Red Cross
09.29.05	09.29.05 Hurricane Katrina Unearths the Disastrous Fiscal State of Our Country Mr. Speaker, almost a year ago, I spoke on this House floor warning of the dangers posed by the latest effort of the majority party to raise the debt limit for the third time during this administration to a whopping $8.18 trillion.I used the occasion to contrast the fiscal policies of the Clinton administration, namely, turning the largest budget deficits in history to the largest budget surpluses in history, with the fiscal policies of the current administration. However, my protestations and the warnings of my fellow Blue Dog Democrats continued to fall on deaf ears.It is inconceivable that deficits soaring as far as the eye can see, mounting debt, and the skyrocketing costs of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan would be ignored for so long and that it would take a tragedy such as Hurricane Katrina to finally serve as a wakeup call. For years members of the Blue Dog Coalition have warned that we were spending money we did not have, that the administration had no economic plan, and that massive untargeted tax cuts were not a substitute for an economic blueprint for our country's future. And yet the Congress continued to reject every proposal requiring us to do our budget in the same way that our constituents do, by paying as we go.Now that Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have wreaked havoc on the gulf coast, causing hundreds of billions of dollars of damage, it is clear that we must take immediate action to get our fiscal house in order. Members on the other side of the aisle have finally acknowledged what Democrats have been saying for years, that our current economic policies cannot be maintained. Unfortunately, however, some in the majority party have proposed that we ask those Americans who have been impacted most by Katrina, namely, the elderly and those with low incomes, to bear the costs.This is not the answer to the persistent poverty exposed so brutally and graphically by Katrina. We must pursue a comprehensive solution to our fiscal woes by suspending tax cuts for wealthy families, by cutting spending, and enacting PAYGO rules, pay-as-you-go, and establishing an emergency rainy day fund.Mr. Speaker, the 2005 budget resolution included $106 billion in new deficit finance tax cuts over the next 5 years. These additional tax cuts will impose a huge additional debt burden on the next generation. If the government is forced to borrow the money to cover these added expenses, the yearly interest payments alone will pile on the already enormous debt that our children and grandchildren will be faced with paying off.Most of these tax cuts will actually be doled out to individuals who do not need more of the government's largesse. With American troops in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan and with our country coping with the rebuilding of the gulf coast, all of us, all of us, must sacrifice for our troops and for our neighbors.In addition to suspending tax cuts for wealthy families, the Congress must immediately restrain its voracious appetite for spending, finding places where cuts can be made to pay the costs of Katrina and Iraq. And in addition to making tough cuts, the Congress should move to immediately reinstate PAYGO rules to stop any further bleeding.Finally, the Congress must establish a rainy day fund for future Katrinas so we will not find ourselves in this spot again. The interest earned by such a fund could be used for disaster planning and preparedness, to modernize our Nation's infrastructure, fortify our levees, and to update and make interoperable our communications systems.The American people now understand the precarious state of the Nation's finances. Today our national debt stands at nearly $8 trillion. Each citizen's personal share of that debt is almost $27,000. This is what we bequeath to our children, and it conflicts most directly with what my parents taught me and what most of our parents taught all of us, that is, we leave the country a little better off than we found it.In 1989, a New York City real estate developer named Seymour Durst placed a large National Debt Clock in Times Square in order to draw public attention to what he saw as a grim predictor of financial instability. For 11 years, the debt numbers on the clock rose at the breakneck pace of $13,000 a second. In 1995, as the Clinton administration began to pay down the national debt, onlookers were shocked to see the numbers on that clock not only slow down but reverse. The clock was retired in the year 2000, as President Clinton announced record reductions in the national debt.Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, no debt clocks were at work this time drawing attention to this crisis. It has taken Katrina to awaken the Nation to the coming fiscal crisis. Let us hope our response to this crisis is an improvement on our response to the last. We owe that to our kids.
09.27.05	09.27.05 Dreier, Schiff Introduces "Justice for Peace Officiers Act" WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman David Dreier (R-CA), Chairman of the House Rules Committee, and Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced an updated version of the Peace Officer Justice Act today. The new bill, the Justice for Peace Officers Act incorporates changes suggested by the law enforcement community. The new legislation will still make it a federal crime to murder a peace officer and flee the country, but it also includes increased penalties and gives state and local authorities priority to prosecute suspected cop killers who flee the U.S. Dreier and Schiff introduced the original legislation in May with the support of Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca."This new and improved bill reflects a commitment at every level of government to pursuing justice for those who pursue it for us," Dreier said. "Our first priority is to keep prosecution of these crimes at the state and/or local level. We view this bill as a complement to those efforts. Enhanced penalties for the crime of killing a peace officer and fleeing, along with greater specificity on who should prosecute first, makes this a stronger, better bill.""Working together, federal, state, and local law enforcement will use every tool available to bring murderers back to the United States for prosecution," Schiff said. "The Justice for Peace Officers Act provides prosecutors the best opportunity to bring justice for families of slain officers."Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca expressed support for the new legislation. "Congressmen Dreier and Schiff have stepped up to the plate again with this legislation," he said. "They heard from law enforcement about how to make a good bill even better, and I applaud them for their continued commitment to justice for our officers and their families."Like the original Peace Officer Justice Act, the new legislation makes it a federal crime to kill a federal, state, or local peace officer and flee the country, punishable by death or life imprisonment under first degree murder. It also raises the punishment for second degree murder by making such an act punishable by a minimum of 30 years or life imprisonment. The new bill also makes the punishment for aiding and abetting the flight of a suspected peace officer killer a minimum of 15 years. Current law on this charge is a maximum of 15 years. Additionally, the bill makes any terms of imprisonment imposed under this bill consecutive to any other sentence imposed by a federal or state court. The legislation gives priority to state and/or local prosecutors to pursue cop killers who flee the country and contains specific language to ensure that nothing in the bill supersedes their authority. It also urges the Secretary of State to enter into formal discussions with the Mexican government on the U.S.-Mexico Extradition treaty.Congressman Schiff is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney in Los Angeles and the co-founder of the Democratic Study Group on National Security. He is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. He represents California’s 29th Congressional District, which includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
09.22.05	09.22.05 On the Introduction of the Fostering Our Future Act Mr. Speaker, last week I introduced the Fostering Our Future Act of 2005, a bill to help our Nation's foster youth by strengthening dependency courts and requiring accountability. Foster care is a critical safety net for half a million abused and neglected American children.It is, however, a system in need of drastic reform and greater support. Twenty percent of all foster kids will be forced to wait over 5 years for a safe, permanent family. Even worse, almost 20,000 older youth age out of the system without the assistance of a permanent family every year.Frequent foster home transfers create turbulence and insecurity that heighten the emotional behavior and educational challenges faced by these youth. The doubling of the foster care population since the early 1980s compounded this problem by creating enormous caseloads and taxing the capacity of foster homes. The end result is that foster kids, through no fault of their own, are more likely to experience homelessness, unemployment, and other life course problems despite their courageous resilience.Imagine what it is like to be 8 years old, neglected by your parents and then taken away from them, living with a family that is not your own, confused by the court proceedings that govern your future, frightened that you might be transferred to another home and alienated and from your peers who talk about mom and dad. Imagine what that feels like.These children deserve better. They should be guaranteed physical and emotional safety. They should have continuing relationships with caregivers and loved ones. They should have an informed voice in the legal decisions made about their lives. And they should enter early adulthood prepared to live a healthy, happy, and productive life. We have a responsibility to these children to meet these goals, and anything less is unacceptable.Practitioners and policy experts have conducted thorough analyses and advanced proposals to overhaul the foster care system. The most prominent is a comprehensive 2004 report by the bipartisan Pew Commission, and identified several areas where the Federal Government can support these kids by strengthening the Nation's foster care systems.The Pew report found that State dependency court systems are failing to sufficiently track cases, and trained personnel, unlike State child welfare agencies, they did not receive Federal funds to do so.Interagency collaboration and performance measurement, where they exist, are inconsistent, both within and between State systems, and tend to focus on bureaucratic needs rather than outcomes.Finally, these systems struggle to retain qualified dependency attorneys who are often burdened by substantial debt. A recent survey found that almost a third of those practicing dependency attorneys graduated law school with over $75,000 in outstanding loans, and 44 percent of them currently owe over $50,000.High turnover among dependency attorneys has led to a dearth of experienced lawyers who have a comprehensive understanding of the system and can maintain valuable relationships with their young clients.The Fostering Our Future Act responds to each of those shortcomings. My bill authorizes grants to State dependency court systems to track and analyze caseloads as well as to train court personnel. These grants are leveraged by requiring that the recipient court systems collaborate with the State's corresponding child welfare agencies and track a series of critical performance metrics.The legislation further establishes a loan forgiveness program to attract and retain qualified child welfare attorneys. By encouraging statewide interagency collaboration and data-sharing by tracking cases and training court personnel, by ensuring that effective representation is available to children and their families, and most importantly, by focusing on child welfare outcomes, this legislation will keep the needs of children and families rather than the needs of bureaucrats front and center.I commend the child welfare workers of America for the invaluable services they provide and for constantly struggling to get this issue the attention that it deserves. Foster care plays a crucial role in our Nation's child welfare safety net, but it is in desperate need of support and reform.I call my colleagues to join me in working for the day when all of the Nation's children are protected, nurtured, and loved, and I invite you to join me in that quest by cosponsoring the Fostering Our Future Act of 2005.
09.15.05	09.15.05 Schiff Armenian Genocide Resolution Passed by Committee WASHINGTON, DC – For the first time in five years, the House International Relations Committee passed Armenian Genocide legislation (H. Con. Res. 195 and H. Res. 316) clearing the way for a historic vote on the House Floor. In June, Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA) secured a commitment for today’s mark-up from House International Relations Committee Chairman Henry Hyde (R-IL). A mark-up is the final hurdle a bill must pass before a vote by the full House of Representatives is possible. The Schiff resolution (H. Con. Res. 195) commemorates the Armenian Genocide and urges Turkey to acknowledge the role of the Ottoman Empire in those atrocities. The resolution also urges Turkey to go beyond recognition of the Genocide and reach a just resolution with the Armenian people. The Schiff resolution has 85 co-sponsors. The United States still does not officially recognize the 1915-1924 genocide of 1.5 million Armenians. This genocide is recognized by the European Union, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, France, Greece, Italy, Lebanon, Russia and Switzerland.After passing the Schiff resolution, the committee then approved a second resolution recognizing the genocide that was sponsored by Congressmen George Radanovich (R-CA), Joseph Knollenberg (R-MI), Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Frank Pallone (D-CA). “This year marks the 90th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. We are working to ensure our country recognizes this terrible tragedy while some of the victims are still alive, including the three brave survivors here today,” said Schiff. “I urge the entire community to call Members of Congress and demand a quick floor vote for H. Con. Res. 195.”"Our entire community is grateful to Congressman Schiff for his efforts today in the International Relations Committee and for his tireless work to pass an Armenian Genocide Resolution," said Aram Hamparian, Executive Director, Armenian National Committee of America. "We look forward to building on the Committee's action and to working with all members of Congress to secure a full Floor vote on Armenian Genocide legislation at the earliest opportunity."Congressman Schiff is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Armenian Issues and he represents the largest Armenian population in the United States. He is a member of both the House Judiciary and International Relations committees. The 29th Congressional District includes the communities of Alhambra, Altadena, Burbank, East Pasadena, East San Gabriel, Glendale, Monterey Park, Pasadena, San Gabriel, South Pasadena and Temple City.
09.15.05	09.15.05 Hurricane Katrina Information & Relief Efforts "Hurricane Katrina has ravaged the Southeast and shocked a nation. This is a tragedy of enormous proportions, and I join with millions of Americans in expressing my deepest sorrow for the loss of life suffered so dramatically and painfully." - Congressman SchiffCongressman Schiff spoke on the House Floor regarding his dissatisfaction with the federal government's response to Hurricane Katrina. To view his floor speech, click here.In addition, Congressman Schiff sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Michael Certoff and FEMA Director Michael D. Brown, urging immediate action and a full accounting for the delays in relief to hurricane victims. To view his letter, click here.This page provides useful information about Hurricane Katrina, links to organizations that are helping provide relief, and how to obtain disaster assistance. Relief OrganizationsFederal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)http://www.fema.gov/202-566-1600Alabama Emergency Management Agencyhttp://www.ema.alabama.gov/1-800-843-0699Florida Division of Emergency Managementhttp://www.floridadisaster.org/1-800-342-3557Louisiana Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparednesshttp://www.ohsep.louisiana.gov202-925-7500Mississippi Emergency Management Agencyhttp://www.msema.org601-960-9020Red Crosshttp://www.redcross.org1-866-GET-INFO (1-866-438-4636)Red Cross Alert for Persons with Emergency Medical Conditions The Red Cross is only accepting phone calls to search for missing persons in these emergency circumstances: Insulin dependant diabetics, Oxygen dependant, On dialysis, Blind, Recent heart attack or stroke victims, Mobility challenged, Broken leg foot or ankle, or paralyzed. To notify the Red Cross of a person missing with one or more of these medical conditions, call 1-866-GET-INFO.
09.15.05	09.15.05 Congressman Schiff Urges Floor Vote to Recognize the Armenian Genocide Mr. Speaker, today, in the Committee on International Relations a remarkable thing happened. Not one but two resolutions recognizing the facts of the Armenian genocide passed out of the committee with strong bipartisan support, indeed with the support of both the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. Hyde), the chairman, and the gentleman from California (Mr. Lantos), the ranking member.One of those resolutions I introduced to recognize the first genocide of the 20th century, the genocide which claimed the lives of 1.5 million Armenian men, women and children. The facts of that genocide are clear. The facts of genocide are incontrovertible. They are bourne out in thousands of pages of documents in our own archives. They are bourne out in the words and the transmitted telegrams of our Ambassador, Henry Morgenthau, at the time.The only obstacle that the Congress has faced, and it has been a formidable one, in recognizing the Armenian genocide is the resistance of the Republic of Turkey, the well-documented efforts of its powerful lobbyist, and the feeling of some that, by recognizing what all historians have recognized, that we will somehow jeopardize our relations with an ally.I have never taken issue with the fact that Turkey is an ally to the United States. It is an ally. It is at a strategic crossroads. It is an important member of NATO. At the same time, we cannot equivocate about the murder of 1.5 million people; and the differences that we have had with Turkey, and they have been considerable, over a whole host of issues have not ruptured our relationship.During the run-up to the Iraq war, many of my colleagues will remember, we sought the permission of Turkey to allow American and Coalition ground forces to enter Iraq through Turkey. The Turkish Parliament voted on that, and they voted against it. That was of enormous significance to this country.As a result of that, we could not open that second northern front; as a result of that, many melted away to the Iraqi population, many of the insurgents that we now fight with so bitterly. That had enormous consequences, but it did not end the relationship with the United States, and recognition of the historic facts of the genocide will not end the relationship with Ankara, either. There are strong mutual interests at stake which will transcend the recognition of the historic facts.In the past, American leaders have recognized the genocide. Ronald Reagan spoke eloquently of the facts of the genocide. Winston Churchill in his memoirs documents the murder of hundreds of thousands of Armenians in a crime at the time that was unequaled. Yet here we are, fresh from recognizing, as indeed we should and as indeed we must, the genocide going on in Darfur, but unwilling to recognize the murder of 1.5 million Armenians.What does that say about American policy? Can our policy be that we will recognize genocide when it is committed by the politically impotent, as in the case of Sudan, but not in the case of the politically powerful as in the case of the Ottoman Empire and its Turkish successors? This certainly cannot be the policy of the United States. We must recognize unequivocally that, beginning in 1915, 1.5 million people were murdered merely because of who they were as a people, the very definition of genocide.With the passage of these resolutions, with the support of the chair and the ranking member, with the overwhelming support on both sides of the aisle in committee, I hope that we can get a vote on the House floor, something we have not had in more than a decade, so that we can once again reestablish the moral authority and clarity that comes with recognizing genocide, past or present, foe or friend, alike. I urge the Members of this House to join in an effort to call upon the leadership to hear the genocide resolution, and I hope the leadership will heed that call.
09.08.05	09.08.05 Rehnquist, Roberts, and the Relationship with Congress Madam Speaker, as we honor Chief Justice William Rehnquist's life, we pause to reflect on his service to our country, a record of service that was colored with honor, dignity, and distinction.Many commentators are focused on his success ushering in a quiet, conservative revolution on the Court. Another remarkable facet of Rehnquist's legacy, however, is found in a much more understated role of the Chief Justice, that of the judiciary's chief advocate and ambassador. The hallmark of his style, no matter how volatile the issue or context, from abortion to impeachment, was one of respectful debate, a quality that garnered an enormous degree of loyalty and respect among his fellow Justices, litigants, and Court watchers.But the Chief Justice not only worked to foster respect and collegiality within the walls of the Court; he did more. For the last 2 years of his tenure, Rehnquist turned his focus to a matter that has also been a source of growing concern for many, the deterioration in relations between the Congress and the courts. As the Chief Justice reported in his year-end analysis of the state of the judiciary, and again in his customarily understated way, ``During the last year, it seems that the traditional interchange between the Congress and the Judiciary broke down.''This hostility long preceded congressional intervention in the tragic case of Terri Schiavo and has taken many forms beyond the most simple and pernicious, that of defunding the courts. It includes measures stripping the courts of jurisdiction to hear particular cases, condemning the courts for the citation of certain precedent, and splitting circuits out of a dislike for their jurisprudence.One constitutional amendment would even change the Framers' design-of-life tenure for lower Federal courts and subject judges to costly campaigns and retention elections. If Members think political campaigning by elected officials and the growth of 527 organizations and other independent expenditure efforts are already out of control, just imagine adding negative attack ads in judicial races around the country: ``Call Judge Jones and tell him to stop coddling criminals'' or ``Call Judge Smith and ask him why he denied relief to widows and orphans.'' One can just imagine what the judicial ads might look like.Even though many of these legislative initiatives have yet to pass, we are already witnessing the direct consequences to our court system. In recent years there has been a marked decline in the level of interest and service on the bench among highly qualified attorneys. Judges are leaving the bench to return to private practice. Reckless talk in the House Committee on the Judiciary about the potential impeachment of judges not for unethical conduct but out of a disagreement with their decisions has only added to the chilling effect on the courts and people's willingness to serve.Ultimately, this protracted war against the judicial branch will only denigrate both Congress and the courts. This is not the first time relations between the two branches have been at a dangerously low ebb, nor was Rehnquist the first Chief Justice to express alarm.Former Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes admonished the Congress of his day that ``in the great enterprise of making democracy workable, we are all partners. One member of our body politic cannot say to another `I have no need of thee.'''Increasingly, however, the Congress has been saying just that, and Rehnquist was among the first to spot the danger. When the gentlewoman from Illinois (Mrs. Biggert) and I formed a bipartisan caucus to improve relations with the courts, Justice Rehnquist was the first to sit down with us. We invited him to meet with our caucus. He came to the Hill, sat down with us, and it was a very important meeting and interchange. After presiding over the high Court for the last 2 decades, he was clearly disturbed at the turn of events in relations between the branches and the resulting attack upon the independence of the judiciary.Why does it matter if the Congress and the courts are at war? Because if the separation of powers has eroded and an independent judiciary is impaired, decisions become increasingly politicized. Public confidence in the rule of law erodes and people begin taking law into their own hands: 174 years ago, Supreme Court Chief Justice John Marshall warned, ``The greatest scourge an angry heaven ever inflicted upon an ungrateful and sinning people was an ignorant, a corrupt, or a dependent judiciary.''During the confirmation hearings of John Roberts next week, there will be a great many important questions asked about Roberts' judicial philosophy, his views on individual rights and freedoms. But I hope that at least one Senator will ask whether Roberts, a prodigy of and potential successor to Rehnquist, will aspire to succeed not only his mentor's conservative revolution but his all too solitary work to repair the damage to the historic and vital comity between the Congress and the courts.
09.02.05	09.02.05 Congressman Schiff Speaks on the Devastation of Hurricane Katrina and the Inadequate Federal Response Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the supplemental appropriation to help the people devastated by this hurricane. As Members can probably tell, I have laryngitis. I may lose my voice again during the course of my remarks, but I feel compelled to speak today at the outset to express my sincere condolence to all those families that have lost loved ones or still wonder where their loved ones are in the wake of this terrifying and terrible hurricane.My heart goes out to all of those that have been impacted. The effects of this hurricane have been devastating. We have seen its physical force, extraordinary winds, the water, the flooding, the wrath of nature in Hurricane Katrina.It has been awesome and terrible in its destruction, but sadness has given way to anger and disbelief as we have seen people stranded on roof tops, as we have seen mothers worry about whether their babies will have enough to eat, as we have seen children worry about their parents' medical conditions and the lack of medicine, as we have wondered how this could happen in the United States of America.National disasters afflict every part of the globe, but it seems that this national disaster has been compounded by our response and in cases by our lack of response. The images we have seen have been horrifying. We have all wondered how it was that so many people came to be left behind, how it was that we could have assumed that when 20 percent of the population of New Orleans lives under the level of poverty, that everyone would have a means of getting out of New Orleans before the storm. How it is that there are not buses running around the clock to take people away from this terrible place with no food, no water, giving way to lawlessness?I heard today that the District of Columbia is sending 10 buses, and I applaud the District of Columbia, but it will take days for those buses to get there. Why are there not buses around the clock? Why is it that these news crews can go and take this devastating footage and find these survivors, and the relief effort cannot?I, like a great many Americans, do not understand how this is possible in the United States of America. My constituents demand that we move both earth and heaven to bring relief as fast as possible to the people of the Gulf Coast, and we have been bitterly disappointed to see how this tragedy has been prolonged, and we have the most profound questions about how in the richest Nation on earth it can take so long to simply get people out of that disaster zone to higher ground, drier ground, to food, medicine. I do not understand the government's response. I really do not.And yes, there will be plenty of time to ask these questions and we will ask them. But the rest of the country is asking them now. We demand a better response than we are getting. I hope that as some of the officials from FEMA and the National Guard are saying, the calvary is on the way, the calvary is truly on the way. And I hope that effort only accelerates and mushrooms and does not stop until every last person has been evacuated.This has been a devastating week for the United States. We have seen bodies floating through the streets. We have heard the voices of Americans question how their government could leave them in such a place in such a time with such developed mass transportation, without airlifts of food and medicine, without rapid evacuation. This country can do better. This country must do better. I hope and pray we are doing a lot better right this moment.I am proud of this Congress for coming into this session and rapidly approving this aid, and it is incumbent upon this Congress to ensure this aid is delivered ASAP and not another moment goes by with another victim waiting to be rescued.
06.28.05	06.28.05 Mugabe's Reign of Terror in Zimbabwe Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word for the purpose of a colloquy.Mr. Chairman, 25 years ago this April, the breakaway British colony of Rhodesia emerged from years of guerilla conflict as the new nation of Zimbabwe. The United States and many other Western nations were hopeful that Zimbabwe's new President, Robert Mugabe, who came to prominence as a guerrilla leader in the 1970s, would moderate his Marxist views and build a better future for all Zimbabwe citizens. Zimbabwe's people also had high hopes. The country had considerable natural wealth and, despite years of bitter warfare, many in the business community opted to remain, providing crucial economic stability. Zimbabwe's people were determined not to share in the fate of so many of their neighbors, who had also emerged from colonialism amid fanfare and high expectations.Now, after a quarter century of tyrannical and frequently bizarre misrule by Mr. Mugabe, Zimbabwe is shattered. Its inflation rate is the highest in the world, unemployment estimates range up to 80 percent, with seven in 10 Zimbabweans living below the poverty line. Zimbabwe has one of Africa's highest HIV/AIDS infection rates, with more than a quarter of the adult population infected.While the Mugabe regime has frequently resorted to Draconian internal security laws and plain old thuggery to suppress and divide the Zimbabwe opposition, Harare's intimidation tactics have taken an especially nasty turn in the last 3 months since the country held parliamentary elections at the end of March.Those elections, which were won by Mugabe's ruling party, were fraudulent and widened the schism between Zimbabwe's urban masses, who tend to support the opposition, and rural voters, who make up the bulk of the ruling party supporters.To punish his opponents, Mr. Mugabe's government has waged a 6-week campaign, revealingly called ``Operation Drive Out Trash,'' against opposition strongholds in Zimbabwe's cities. Tens of thousands of bewildered families have been forced into the open of the cold winter after police torched and bulldozed their shanty town homes on the flimsiest of pretexts. Street markets were also targeted and left smoldering in ruins.Last week, the government, in a nation facing severe food shortages, moved on to vegetable gardens planted by the poor in vacant lots around Harare. Authorities claimed the gardens threatened the environment.International human rights groups say at least 300,000 people have lost their homes by conservative estimates. The United Nations puts the figure as high as 1.5 million.Mr. Chairman, I know that many of our colleagues share my anger and my sorrow at a state of affairs that is beginning to look eerily like Cambodia after the Khmer Rouge came to power in 1975. I have no desire to cut U.S. aid that goes to help the people of Zimbabwe and their struggles against HIV/AIDS and one-party rule, but I feel that we cannot stand by and watch Zimbabwe become a failed State.I am especially frustrated by the failure of the African Union and SADC, the Southern African Development Community, to confront the horrors going on in Zimbabwe. I hope that the AU will, at the weekend summit in Sirte, Libya, take a firm stand against the Mugabe regime's excesses, and I urge President Bush to make it clear at next week's G-8 meeting that South Africa's President Thabo Mbeki, who has refused to confront Mr. Mugabe and we hope Mr. Mbeki will take a strong and unequivocal stand against the Zimbabwe regime.Will the chairman work with me and the chairman of the full Committee on International Relations and other interested Members in developing policies that continue to assist the Zimbabwe people while putting additional pressure on the Mugabe regime?Mr. KOLBE. Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield?Mr. SCHIFF. I yield to the gentleman from Arizona.Mr. KOLBE. Mr. Chairman, I want to say that I share my colleague's abhorrence regarding the rule in Zimbabwe, and he has outlined it, I think, extraordinarily well. Through his mismanagement and outright oppression, he has driven Zimbabwe, once known as the bread basket of southern Africa, into the greatest source of instability in the region. I want to make it clear that no funding, no funding from this bill will be used to support Mr. Mugabe's government.The bill does include $15 million to help the people of Zimbabwe. I feel strongly that this assistance is critical and must be sustained. Over $11 million of this is for HIV/AIDS and other health programs. Most of the rest is used to help strengthen citizen groups and other organizations, so one day the people may have an effective voice against Mr. Mugabe and his cronies.Democratic change must be driven by the people. As we have seen in Georgia and Ukraine, our democracy programs can be effective in supporting that process. And, the people of Zimbabwe must not feel that the international community has given up on them.While I feel strongly that our assistance to the Zimbabwean people must be sustained, I will be happy to work with the gentleman to find ways to increase pressure on President Mugabe.Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for his leadership.Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word.Mr. Chairman, I want to commend the gentleman from California for raising this issue. I too am very concerned about the repressive and totalitarian turns that Zimbabwe has taken in recent years under Mr. Mugabe.The decision to evict thousands of poor people from their homes and bulldoze their property is one of the worst forms of brutality Mr. Mugabe has used against his own people, who are already suffering from food shortages and economic stagnation. He is truly relentless in his effort to quash any opposition he perceives.As the chairman has said, there is no U.S. funding for Mr. Mugabe's regime contained in the bill. However, at a time when Zimbabweans are suffering so much, I am loathe to place conditions or limitations on any assistance that might help the beleaguered people of the country and ease their isolation from the rest of the international community. I am particularly concerned about any limitations on HIV/AIDS programs which comprise the bulk of our assistance to Zimbabwe.
06.27.05	06.27.05 U.S. Supreme Cout Upholds Intellectual Property Protection CONGRESSMAN ADAM B. SCHIFFOF CALIFORNIAIN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESMr. Speaker, today the United States Supreme Court, in a unanimous 9-0 decision, held that peer-to-peer file-swapping companies can be held liable if they promote the use of their sites to infringe copyright. The Grokster decision is a victory for all law-abiding Americans, especially the hardworking and talented individuals that make up our creative industries.I am pleased that the Supreme Court struck the right balance between the protection of intellectual property and the desire to provide consumers with easy and lawful access to movies, music, and other content. Impressive advances in technology in recent years have produced a host of new and exciting avenues for consumers to access music and other content online. These new technologies, however, have also bred a culture of rampant pirating on the Internet.Grokster and other peer-to-peer networks have become bastions of illegal activity, providing safe havens for pirates to swap copied versions of copyrighted material without paying a cent. Every day, millions of copyrighted protected movies, songs, computer games, and other pieces of intellectual property are stolen over peer-to-peer networks.The statistics speak for themselves. Over 90 percent of the file-sharing activity on Grokster is illegal copyright infringement. Of the music files available online, 99 percent are unauthorized, leading to a substantial drop in shipments of music to retailers.In the last year alone, the number of feature films posted on file-sharing sites more than doubled to 44 million. Some estimates show that as many as 400,000 movies have been downloaded in one day alone.Last month, it took just a few hours after the latest Star Wars movie opened in theaters for a copy to show up online on a file-sharing site. While so many Americans flocked to movie theaters across the country with their children and families to see the latest episode of this great Hollywood franchise, millions had access to an unauthorized copy of the film online, free for theft and the taking.Our Nation's economy and creative industries that employ over 5 million Americans suffer a huge blow from the billions of dollars lost annually through illegal downloading. These networks that actively promote illegal activity continue to pose a serious threat to the livelihood of copyright creators and artists, many of whom live in my district.One of our country's greatest exports, indeed the only area where we have a positive balance of trade with every Nation on earth, is in the area of creative content and our intellectual property, which is derived from the hard work of song writers, technicians, artists, programmers, musicians, independent filmmakers and scores of others who make their living from the lawful sale of these items.The Supreme Court decision today strikes the right balance by protecting copyright holders from such illegal activity and promoting legal avenues for downloading movies, music, and other works by consumers.Very simply, the Court decision today codifies an age-old principle: that one man should not profit from the fruit of another man's labor.As the Court noted, their decision leaves breathing room for innovation, and a vigorous commerce and does nothing to compromise the legitimate commerce or discourage innovation having a lawful purpose.Today's ruling upholds the principle that technology must and should advance, but not without respecting copyright law. Just moments after today's decision, a new legal peer-to-peer model was unveiled that will incorporate many user benefits common to the peer-to-peer file-sharing experience, and a number of sites have already been launched that offer Internet music downloads at affordable prices without infringing on copyright laws. These positive efforts provide a victory for both consumers and artists.Today's decision will further encourage and spur even more technological innovation. As a result, consumers will be the ultimate winners as they will have more access to high-quality music, film, and other content on the Internet and elsewhere.
05.21.05	05.21.05 Floor Debate on Flake/Schiff Patriot Act Library Amendment Mr. Chairman, I rise today to urge my colleagues to support the Flake-Schiff amendment, which would make an important change to section 215 if it is ever used in the library or bookstore context. This amendment is substantially similar to one I offered in the Committee on the Judiciary with the gentlewoman from California (Ms. Waters), but one I agreed to withdraw in order to work with the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Flake) in a bipartisan fashion on a proposal for consideration on the House floor.I am sure that every Member of Congress has heard from their constituents regarding this very provision of the PATRIOT Act. Even if possibly based on misplaced fears, some of the public are now apprehensive about going to their local library or bookstore.Our amendment would not prevent law enforcement from investigating alleged terrorist activity wherever it may occur. It creates no safe haven for terrorists. Instead, our amendment would aim to restore some measure of public confidence that this provision will not be abused.The Flake-Schiff amendment says that vis-a-vis the records that pose the greatest concern for all of our constituents, library records or bookstore records, the existing authority which allows lower level FBI agents to seek those records should be significantly amended.If our amendment is adopted, only the FBI Director himself or herself can approve such an order for an investigation to protect against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities.As of the latest public disclosure, the Justice Department has reported that section 215 has never been used in a library. The fact, however, that this provision may never have been used in a library to date does not alter the fact that it affects the behavior of all of our constituents who are concerned that their records may one day be the subject of a search.Given the sensitivity of this section, I believe it is worthwhile and necessary to make changes to existing law and that this added protection is warranted.During the Committee on the Judiciary markup last week, I offered an additional amendment to section 215 that would have lifted the prohibition on disclosure when a United States citizen was impacted and when the investigation had concluded if there was no good cause to continue to prohibit the disclosure. Unfortunately, this amendment was rejected on party lines.The Flake-Schiff amendment will still make another important and needed change. I believe it makes very good sense for the FBI Director and the Director alone to make the decision, and not to delegate it away. The bipartisan PATRIOT Act proposal in the Senate makes a similar change, restricting this authority to the FBI Director or Deputy Director. I think our amendment provides an even stronger safeguard and strikes a balance that will restore a measure of public confidence in this area.Before closing, Mr. Chairman, I want to take a moment to discuss the Sanders amendment and other efforts to make important changes to section 215. While I am appreciative that the Committee on Rules made the Flake-Schiff amendment in order, I am disappointed that the Sanders amendment was not also made in order. I believe that this House and the American people are better served if all proposals are duly and fairly considered on the House floor.As you know, last month the House decisively adopted the Sanders amendment during consideration of the Science, State, Justice and Commerce appropriations bill. I supported that amendment, which prohibited the use of funds for a section 215 search of a library record patron list, book sale record or book customer list.The Sanders amendment, however, did not amend the underlying PATRIOT law, which I believe we must do as a first step. We must permanently limit the statutory authorization to use section 215 in libraries and bookstores. The Sanders amendment also made no changes to the ability to search library computer and Internet records.I expect and encourage the gentleman from Vermont (Mr. Sanders) to bring his amendment before the House floor each year to further limit the use of section 215 with respect to specific lists and records in libraries and bookstores. But, for now, since the amendment only applies for 1 year and only applies to specific items in the library, I think it is important and necessary for the House to pass this broader and permanent change to the PATRIOT Act.Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
05.19.05	05.19.05 Schiff Amendments Regarding Weapons of Mass Destruction Mr. Chairman, at the outset I want to recognize the superb work of the gentleman from Illinois (Chairman Hyde), and say that I think the gentleman is going to have to endure a number of valedictory speeches over the next year and a half. If one Member spoke for each year that the gentleman has served in this House, that would entitle us to 32 accolade speeches during the next year and a half. So be prepared. We are extremely grateful for all of your work. With our ranking member, we could not have two more talented members at the helm of the Committee on International Relations.I also want to express a personal thanks for the willingness of the chairman and the ranking member to include several of my amendments to this bill in the markup.Two weeks ago, terrorists struck in the heart of one of the world's great cities, London. The weapons they used, simple knapsacks filled with a few pounds of high explosive, caused a devastating loss of life and again highlighted our vulnerability to terrorism.But what if terrorists had released a biological agent into London's underground? What if they had used a van with a stolen Russian nuclear weapon or nuclear material to cripple London's central business district?The amendments I offered in committee addressed three critical areas in the fight to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction: security of nuclear weapons and material, expanding the Proliferation Security Initiative, and redirecting the efforts of scientists formerly employed as part of the Soviet Union's biological warfare establishment. While the United States has stringent controls on our nuclear weapons and weapons materials, security in other countries is less exacting.My first amendment calls upon the President to work with the international community to improve the security of weapons and materials and to urge international support for the IAEA's proposals to strengthen the security of nuclear materials.My second amendment urges the President to strengthen the 2-year-old Proliferation Security Initiative by seeking a treaty, UN Security Council resolution, or other agreement expressly authorizing interdiction of illicit WMD technology and materials. While I believe that existing international law justifies the Proliferation Security Initiative, there are states that are reluctant to participate in the program without the expressed sanction.The third amendment requests a report by the Secretary of State on the feasibility, potential contributions, and desirability of employing former Soviet biological weapons scientists in developing biomedical countermeasures. Diverting the expertise of weapons scientists in the former Soviet Union is crucial to preventing the proliferation of WMD.And, again, I am grateful to the chairman and ranking member for the inclusion of these amendments and all their efforts to curb the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
