03.20.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) earned a perfect 100 percent score from the League of Conservation Voters (LCV) on its 2018 National Environmental Scorecard. The report also lauded Congressman DeSaulnier’s lifetime score of 99 percent. These marks reflect the Congressman’s long record of advocacy for environmental issues. “For the third year in a row, Congressman DeSaulnier received a perfect 100% on LCV’s 2018 National Environmental Scorecard, demonstrating once again his commitment to clean air, clean water, and the urgent need to address climate change,” said League of Conservation Voters Vice President of Government Affairs Sara Chieffo. “Beyond his score, DeSaulnier has been a champion in protecting our bedrock environmental safeguards, defending the clean car standards, and opposing dangerous offshore drilling that jeopardizes our coasts. As a member of the Transportation & Infrastructure and Oversight Committees, we look forward to working with him to advance a climate-smart infrastructure package and hold the Trump Administration accountable for its attacks on our air, water and health.” “In a time when the Administration is questioning scientific fact and rolling back environmental protections that were put in place to promote public health and protect our planet, it has never been more important to support environmental policies. I am honored to be recognized by the League of Conservation Voters, and I will continue to partner with them on forward-looking environmental policies that will help drive growth, innovation, and competitiveness in California and across the nation,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The League of Conservation Voters Environmental Scorecard provides objective, factual information about the most important environmental legislation considered and the voting records of members of Congress throughout the 115th Congress. The Scorecard represents the consensus of experts from approximately 20 respected environmental and conservation organizations. Congressman DeSaulnier is a former member of the California Air Resources Board (CARB). #
03.18.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that legislation he authored to allow for upgrades to the Contra Costa Canal, the Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act (H.R. 432), has been signed into law. The bill, which passed in the U.S. House of Representatives, was included as part of a bipartisan public lands and conservation package in the Senate (S.47). The bill transfers the title of the canal system from the Bureau of Reclamation to the Contra Costa Water District (CCWD), allowing the CCWD to invest in safety and environmental improvements to the canal’s infrastructure. “Passage of the Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act allows the Contra Costa Water District to implement long overdue improvements to the canal,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “This legislation will allow for critical safety and structural improvements, and will bring benefits to all Contra Costa residents.” Built between 1937 and 1948, the Contra Costa Canal delivers water to both homes and businesses throughout Contra Costa County, and also to the Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys for irrigation. The 48-mile canal system is currently exposed, but following the transfer CCWD will work to enclose it in a surface tunnel. Since the Contra Costa Canal has been operational, 81 people have drowned in the canal. The Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act would help prevent these accidents, and improve recreation and land use in and around the canal system by revitalizing land located in the Concord Naval Weapons Station. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) authored similar legislation in the Senate. A previous version of this bill Mark authored passed unanimously in the U.S. House of Representatives last year. #
03.13.2019	Washington, DC – On the House floor today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) managed the rule to begin consideration of H.Con.Res. 24, a straightforward Democratic resolution expressing the sense of Congress that the report by Special Counsel Mueller should be made available to the American public and to Congress. Highlights of Congressman DeSaulnier’s remarks are included below and video of the full speech is available here. “When the Justice Department named Robert Mueller to Special Counsel for the Russia investigation, acting Attorney General Rod Rosenstein said, ‘A special counsel is necessary in order for the American people to have full confidence in the outcome. Our nation is grounded on the rule of law, and the public must be assured that government officials administer the law fairly.’ This resolution does not predetermine the outcome of the Mueller investigation. It simply expresses that the report of the Special Counsel should be made available to Congress and to the American people. The public, including my constituents in Contra Costa, wants to know what happened. Nearly 9 in 10 Americans – in both parties – say the Mueller investigation should produce a full, public report on the findings. Not only do people want to know, but they deserve to know. To date, Mueller’s investigation has resulted in: 34 people and three companies being criminally charged; Nearly 200 charges filed; Seven guilty pleas; And one conviction following a jury trial. The investigation cost over $25 million, but recovered approximately $48 million in assets from tax evasion. Eight federal and congressional intelligence and national security groups believe Russia interfered in the election. With the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Agency, the F.B.I., and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence concluding that Vladimir Putin personally ‘ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election’ to ‘undermine public faith in the democratic process.’ The last time our country had a Special Counsel operating under the same rules as the Mueller Probe was in 1993 to investigate the Waco siege and allegations of government wrongdoing. Prosecutors posted their final report directly on the Internet with hundreds of pages of exhibits and timelines. The American public should receive the same transparency when the Mueller report is released. I encourage my friends across the aisle to support the release of the Mueller report. We have commitments to support it from three House Republican Leaders including the Minority Leader, Minority Whip, and Republican Conference Chair, and I hope all of the Republican Caucus will join Democrats in this vote to ensure we share one of the most important investigations of our time within these halls and with all of America.” Congressman DeSaulnier is also a Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform, which is investigating any possible criminal activity related to President Trump or his associates. #
03.11.2019	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he is hosting the 2019 Congressional Art Competition for California’s 11th Congressional District. High school artists living in Contra Costa County may begin submitting original artwork to their school from now until Monday, April 22, 2019. The winning piece will be selected by a panel of local judges and announced at an event in Contra Costa County following the submission deadline. “Every year, I am inspired by the tremendous creativity and talent of Contra Costa County’s students,” DeSaulnier said. “I look forward to showcasing our district’s artwork both at home and in Washington.” This event is open to all high school students in California’s 11th Congressional District, and the winning piece will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol. Additionally, the winner will have the opportunity to visit Washington, D.C. to attend a national reception honoring winners from around the country. Submissions may be up to 26 inches high, 26 inches wide, and 4 inches deep, and must arrive at one of Congressman DeSaulnier’s district offices, in Walnut Creek or Richmond, no later than 5:00 p.m. on April 22, 2019. Complete contest guidelines and submission forms are available on Congressman DeSaulnier’s website at: https://desaulnier.house.gov/services/art-competition. For more information or help submitting artwork, please contact 925-933-2660. #
03.07.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), John Curtis (R-UT) and Ben McAdams (D-UT) announced the introduction of bipartisan legislation that will promote evidence-based planning decisions on transportation projects. The Connecting Opportunities through Mobility Metrics and Unlocking Transportation Efficiencies (COMMUTE) Act (H.R. 1517) would create a pilot program to use data to drive improvements in transportation access and connectivity. “Moving the most people efficiently and safely is both a science and an art, and we should rely on data, engineering, and planning to help guide us toward the right approaches to reducing commute times,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “In the Bay Area in 2016, ten percent of commuters had a super commute— where it takes them at least 90 minutes to get to work. This bill will help to truly modernize and improve our nation’s infrastructure, and connect communities with employment centers, schools, and medical facilities.” “Quick and efficient transportation is crucial to Utahans, not only because it makes our lives better, but it also positively impacts our environment and economic development,” said Congressman Curtis. “I am proud to co-lead this bipartisan legislation to improve the way we look at transportation options in our communities.” “Utah is growing rapidly and needs substantial investment in infrastructure to keep people moving safely and efficiently, reducing air pollution and supporting our economy. It’s common sense to spend those dollars based on the best available data that shows where multiple modes of transportation work seamlessly to get people to work, to school, to shop and back to their homes. A pilot program such as the one proposed in this legislation would be invaluable to transportation planners and local elected officials,” Congressman McAdams. The COMMUTE Act would establish a pilot program that requires the Department of Transportation (DOT) to provide states, metropolitan planning organizations, and rural planning organizations with data sets measuring the level of access by multiple modes of transportation to specific destinations. These destinations include jobs and areas with a concentration of available jobs, health care facilities, childcare services, educational and workforce training facilities, affordable housing, and food sources. Under the program, DOT would select five eligible states, 10 metropolitan planning organizations, and five rural planning organizations to participate. "We can’t continue using 20th century tools to gauge the effectiveness of a 21st century transportation system. The COMMUTE Act provides funding to transportation agencies so that they can better measure how well the transportation system connects people with jobs and services. With a clearer understanding of how the transportation system is or is not working for the people who depend on it, communities can better direct public dollars to the most beneficial investments,” said Beth Osborne, Director, Transportation for America. H.R. 1517 is also supported by the League of American Bicyclists. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Joni Ernst (R-IA) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. #
03.05.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Steve Cohen (D-TN) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Stop Underrides Act to help prevent deadly truck underride crashes with Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Marco Rubio (R-FL). An underride crash occurs when a car slides under a large truck, such as a semi-trailer, during an accident. When these accidents happen, a car’s safety features are rendered useless because most of the car slides under the trailer and the truck crashes straight through the windows and into the passengers. The passengers in the car often suffer severe head and neck injuries, including decapitation. These accidents are often fatal, even at low speeds. “Each year, truck underride collisions—among the deadliest type of accidents on the road—claim the lives of at least 300 people. No parent, friend, or loved one should have to suffer such a loss when there are commonsense safety improvements that can be made,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I am particularly thankful to Marianne Karth and Lois Durso, who each lost children in truck underride collisions, for their tireless work to make sure no other family suffers this same kind of loss.” “The Stop Underrides Act lays out a path to bring an end to these terrible and all too often fatal accidents, including the death of Michael Higginbotham, who was killed in an underride crash in Memphis and whose parents, Randy and Laurie Higginbotham, have been urging Congress to take action on this long overdue issue. This is common sense legislation that will save lives. It’s the right kind of legislation that should be advocated in Congress more often,” said Congressman Cohen. “We are thankful for the legislators who have already stepped up to the plate to cosponsor this bill that will end a decades-old public health and traffic safety problem. Thousands of lives have been lost as a result of truck underride. Countless more will die unless the motoring public is protected from this kind of crash. It is the duty of the government to protect its citizens. We are hosting an Underride Crash Test in D.C. on March 26th, that we hope will convince all members of Congress to act decisively in order to protect their constituents from deadly underride. If Congress is unwilling to protect their constituents from death by underride, who will?” said Marianne Karth and Lois Durso, Stop Underrides Advocates. Studies and pilot programs show that a simple barrier attached to the lower area of a truck, called an “underride guard,” would help prevent a car from sliding underneath a truck in an accident. Under current federal law, underride guards are not required to be on the sides or front of trucks. Underride guards are already required for the back of a truck, but the standards are outdated. The bipartisan Stop Underrides Act would require underride guards on the sides and front of a truck and would update the outdated standards for underride guards on the back of trucks. “Congress has the ability to make simple and commonsense changes that would save lives on the roads. Truck underride guards are one of the best and easiest solutions for protecting passengers and preventing them from being killed when a car collides with a truck,” said Senator Gillibrand. “I’m proud to introduce the Stop Underrides Act to protect passengers and help keep our roads safer, and I urge all of my colleagues to join us in supporting this bipartisan bill.” “Hundreds of individuals across the nation are lost to underride collisions every year, with Florida unfortunately ranking among the top states for reported fatalities. This Congress, I am proud to join my Senate colleagues in reintroducing the Stop Underrides Act,” said Senator Rubio. “As a parent with kids of driving age, I look forward to working in a bipartisan fashion to advance efforts to keep our roads safer.” In addition to requiring underride guards on the sides and front of a truck and updating the outdated standards for underride guards on the back of trucks, this legislation would also ensure that the annual inspection for all large trucks includes underride guards as part of the inspection and would require the Department of Transportation to review underride standards every five years to evaluate the need for changes in response to advancements in technology. The Stop Underrides Act is endorsed by the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance, Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, Consumer Reports, Truck Safety Coalition, National Safety Council, and Road to Zero Coalition. “As members of the law enforcement community who proactively inspect commercial motor vehicles for safe mechanical fitness during roadside safety inspections, CVSA member jurisdictions know the importance of taking steps to reduce fatalities and serious injuries on our nation’s roadways,” said Collin Mooney, Executive Director, Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance. “If passed, the Stop Underrides Act will help mitigate the severity of underride crashes and make our roadways safer.” “Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety thanks Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) along with Representatives Cohen and DeSaulnier for championing legislation that will curb preventable truck crash deaths and injuries. The Stop Underrides Act will protect against horrific instances of passenger cars running under a truck or trailer. Comprehensive underride protection is long overdue and will ensure families sharing the roads and highways with large trucks will be safer. We urge Congress to take immediate action on this bill to save the hundreds of lives that are needlessly lost each year in these crashes,” said Cathy Chase, President, Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety. “Congress should pass the Stop Underrides Act right away. After more than 60 years of study by the federal government, it is well past time for our nation to protect families from losing loved ones in truck underride crashes. Stronger underride guards on trucks will make these crashes far less severe. The technology is there—what’s been missing is the will to put it to work. Passing this bill can change that,” said David Friedman, Vice President of Advocacy, Consumer Reports. “The Truck Safety Coalition thanks Senators Gillibrand, Rubio and Representatives Cohen and DeSaulnier for reintroducing the Stop Underrides Act. For our volunteers who have survived truck underride collisions and for those who lost loved ones in these tragic crashes, the reintroduction of this bill marks progress in addressing a preventable safety issue that has been well-known for more than 50 years and has resulted in thousands of unnecessary deaths and serious injuries. We look forward to working with the Senators and Representatives and our volunteers to educate the public as well as other lawmakers about the dangers of this vehicle design flaw as well as the evidenced based solutions called for in this legislation that will help prevent truck underride crashes from needlessly killing and injuring more people,” said Harry Adler, Executive Director, Truck Safety Coalition. “With over 100 people dying on our roads every day, we need to double down on what works and embrace effective countermeasures,” said Nick Smith, Interim President and CEO, National Safety Council and Chair, Road to Zero Coalition. “Underride guards are one of those proven solutions, and the National Safety Council supports this bill.” #
03.02.2019	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the death of Concord resident and West Point cadet Peter Zhu. "Our hearts go out to the family and friends of Peter Zhu. He was a bright young man who was serving our community and the country." #
02.26.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after California Attorney General Xavier Becerra released the California Department of Justice Review of Immigration Detention in California report, which corroborates many of the allegations of mistreatment of undocumented immigrants at the West County Detention Facility in Richmond, California. In November of 2017, Congressman DeSaulnier urged California Attorney General Xavier Becerra and U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions to conduct independent, third-party investigations of the West County Detention Facility. “The Attorney General’s report affirms what we had long suspected—West County Detention Facility did not have the resources or the training necessary to properly care for the immigrants in its care. Every person should be treated with respect and dignity, and that was not happening. The residents of Contra Costa deserve to know that this was happening in the their backyard, and this report, combined with expert press reporting, finally sheds that light.” Following multiple and varying allegations of abuse of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainees at the West County Detention Facility, DeSaulnier also called for the termination of Contra Costa County’s ICE contract. In July of 2018, the Contra Costa County Sheriff’s Office announced it would cancel its contract with ICE. #
02.26.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier’s effort to help upgrade the Contra Costa Canal System as part of a bipartisan public lands and conservation package (S. 47) was passed in the U.S House of Representatives. DeSaulnier’s bill, the Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act (H.R. 432), would transfer the title of the canal system from the Bureau of Reclamation to the Contra Costa Water District (CCWD), allowing the CCWD to invest in safety and environmental improvements to the canal’s infrastructure. This package of bills passed the U.S. Senate, and now heads to the President’s desk for signature. “The aging Contra Costa Canal has long been in need of critical safety and structural improvements,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Transferring ownership of the canal will allow for the land around the canal to be revitalized for recreational use. I am pleased that our effort will enable the Contra Costa Water District to implement changes that will prevent future accidents, water leaks, and contamination, and is one step closer to becoming law.” Built between 1937 and 1948, the Contra Costa Canal delivers water both to homes and businesses throughout Contra Costa County, and also to the Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys for irrigation. The 48-mile canal system is currently exposed, but following the transfer CCWD will work to enclose it in a surface tunnel. Since the Contra Costa Canal has been operational, 81 people have drowned in the canal. The Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act would help prevent these accidents, and improve recreation and land use in and around the canal system by revitalizing land located in the Concord Naval Weapons Station. “Passing this bill paves the way for us to own the canal system that our customers have invested in and depended upon for reliable water service for over 80 years. With ownership, we can modernize the system to protect water quality, improve safety and meet customer needs for the next 100 years,” said Lisa Borba, Contra Costa Water District Board President. “We appreciate the leadership from Senator Feinstein and Congressman DeSaulnier to reach this successful outcome.” Senator Dianne Feinstein authored companion legislation in the Senate. A previous version of this bill, also authored by Congressman DeSaulnier, passed unanimously in the U.S. House of Representatives last year. #
02.22.2019	Richmond, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) held a ceremony to officially rename the Richmond Main Post Office located at 1025 Nevin Avenue in Richmond to the Harold D. McCraw, Sr., Post Office Building. The name change comes after Congressman DeSaulnier’s bill (H.R. 606) to rename the post office in Mr. McCraw’s honor passed both Chambers of Congress unanimously and was signed into law in December of 2018 (PL 115-283). Harold D. McCraw, Sr. was a distinguished and dedicated civil servant, who began working for the Richmond Post Office in 1956 and served the United States Postal Service (USPS) for 45 years. “The City of Richmond is, and has always been, home to hardworking, compassionate, and dedicated citizens who put community and country first,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Today’s ceremony to rename the Richmond Main Post Office in honor of Mr. McCraw is a fitting tribute to his commitment and service to the United States Postal Service and the Richmond community. I am honored to have helped to ensure that Mr. McCraw’s lasting contributions to the City of Richmond will be displayed at the heart of the community.” Mr. McCraw not only served as Richmond Postmaster, but was also an active member of the Richmond community, serving on various boards and commissions, and starting the East Bay Chapter of the National Association of Postmasters of the United States (NAPUS). He also served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Richmond Community Social Services Corporation, where he facilitated the development of a child care facility that has expanded to five locations and cares for hundreds of children. Congressman DeSaulnier played an active role in saving the Nevin Avenue Post Office building from being sold. After urging the United States Postal Service to reconsider their plans to sell the building, issuing public comment opposing the plan, and working with the Mayor and the City of Richmond to explore purchasing the post office to keep it in public use, Congressman DeSaulnier was informed in July of 2018 that all plans to sell the building have been halted.
02.15.2019	Congressman DeSaulnier attending his first Committee on Rules hearing on the funding agreement reached to avert a shutdown and address border security. Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) announced that he has been appointed to the important House Committee on Rules. Congressman DeSaulnier will also continue serving on the House Committees on Education and Labor, Oversight and Reform, and Transportation and Infrastructure. “I am honored to serve on the House Committee on Rules and to have the unique opportunity to weigh in on major pieces of legislation before they are brought to the House Floor for a vote, and to restore regular order to Congress,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I look forward to working alongside Chairman McGovern and my fellow Committee members to help advance our proactive democratic agenda, while ensuring that the legislative process is open, fair, and transparent to the public.” “I’ve worked closely with Congressman DeSaulnier on a number of issues, especially on priorities like promoting human rights and debating our military’s role abroad. He’s never been afraid to take on the tough issues and fight for the people he represents. Congressman DeSaulnier’s experience will be invaluable to the Rules Committee and I congratulate him on this appointment,” Chairman Jim McGovern (D-MA). First created in 1789, the House Rules Committee is one of the longest existing committees in the House of Representatives. The Committee is commonly known as “The Speaker’s Committee” because it was chaired by the Speaker until 1910. Through this appointment, Congressman DeSaulnier will play a significant role in setting the agenda of the 116th Congress. For over 25 years, DeSaulnier has served at nearly every level of government from mayor to the California assembly and senate, where he passed 61 bills into law and received the distinction of being the first freshman in history to chair the Assembly Transportation Committee. In the California Assembly, he also had the distinction to serve on the Rules Committee. For the past four years, he has represented California’s 11th Congressional District in the East Bay of San Francisco. He was born in Lowell, Massachusetts, attended Holy Cross, and has been a small business owner most of his career.
02.15.2019	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host a town hall meeting at Clayton Valley Charter High School in Concord on Wednesday, February 20th at 6:30 p.m. This will be Congressman DeSaulnier’s 77th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress four years ago. The town hall was originally scheduled for January 23rd, but was postponed due to the government shutdown. During the town hall, Congressman DeSaulnier will provide an update on the recent border security deal and other issues before Congress, will take questions, and discuss the services his office can provide. Concord Town Hall Wednesday, February 20th 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Clayton Valley Charter High School Multiuse Room 1101 Alberta Way Concord, CA 94521Doors Open at 6:00 p.m. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling (925) 933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond.
02.14.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) voted in favor of the Conference Report to Accompany H.J.Res. 31, the funding agreement reached to avert a shutdown and address border security. Among its positive provisions, the deal makes much needed investments in environmental programs, infrastructure, and affordable housing; provides a pay raise to federal workers; ensures the humane treatment of immigrants; and assists with California wildfire cleanup efforts. The funding agreement passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 300-to-128, and is headed to the President’s desk for signature. “Rather than allow the President to shut the government down again after the suffering he caused federal workers and the American public for 35 days, we agreed to keep the government open and funded. We should not be governing by shutdowns,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “It is not a perfect deal, but it is a bipartisan agreement between both chambers of Congress. Should President Trump declare a national emergency when he signs this legislation, we stand ready to fight it at every turn.” Also included in the bill is a provision authored by Congressman DeSaulnier that will help accelerate the transition to clean transportation in the trucking industry. DeSaulnier’s measure allows electric battery powered trucks to exceed federal weight limits by 2,000 pounds to offset the battery systems that are heavier than traditional diesel fuel tanks. “After years of pressing, I am pleased that this commonsense adjustment will be law. In order to maintain America’s competitive edge well into the twenty-first century, we must pave the way for new advances that help spur innovation, support manufacturers, promote cleaner technologies, and protect public health and safety,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. #
02.13.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, in honor of Black History Month, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Barbara Lee (CA-13) reintroduced a House Resolution calling for the public exoneration of the Port Chicago 50. The resolution is part of their ongoing effort to bring attention and solutions to the injustice suffered by the Port Chicago 50, a group of African American sailors who were wrongly convicted of mutiny following the deadliest home front disaster of World War II at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine in California. After experiencing segregation in the Navy, 435 African American munitions sailors, who were not properly trained or supported, were killed or injured when a cargo vessel exploded. This incident accounted for more than 15 percent of all African American Naval casualties during WWII. When 50 of these men understandably refused to return to the unsafe working conditions that killed their fellow sailors, they were discriminately charged and convicted of mutiny. “If we are to progress as a nation, it is critical that we learn from past injustices and correct our mistakes,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Our resolution recognizes the Port Chicago 50’s courage, celebrates their service to our country, and calls for their public exoneration. I thank Congresswoman Lee for her partnership as we work to right the wrongs of our past, and properly honor these men.” “As the daughter of a veteran, I am deeply grateful to our men and women in uniform, who make tremendous sacrifices in service to this nation. However, our nation has not always treated our service members with the compassion and decency that they deserve. The 50 African American sailors at Port Chicago, who boldly stood against discrimination and refused to return to unsafe work conditions, should be remembered as heroes. The wrongful charges of mutiny levied against these service members were an injustice that persists to this day,” said Congresswoman Lee. “These brave men should be honored, not only for their pivotal role in the World War II home front effort, but also for their courage in the face of injustice. I am grateful to Congressman DeSaulnier for introducing this legislation and celebrating these local heroes.” Representatives DeSaulnier and Lee have introduced this resolution in both the 114th and 115th Congress, and together they sent a letter to former President Obama requesting he acknowledge the injustice suffered by these sailors and remove these racially biased convictions from their records. Additionally, Congressman DeSaulnier successfully included a provision to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Navy to investigate the circumstances surrounding the treatment of sailors at Port Chicago. This led to the Navy acknowledging the injustice that was served to the Port Chicago 50. DeSaulnier has also called upon the Smithsonian Institution to include information about the Port Chicago 50 in the new National Museum of African American History and Culture. #
02.12.2019	Richmond, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that on Friday, February, 22nd at 1:00 p.m. he will host a ceremony to rename the Richmond Main Post Office located on Nevin Avenue in Richmond to the “Harold D. McCraw, Sr., Post Office Building.” The ceremony will be held in conjunction with the United States Postal Service (USPS). DeSaulnier’s bill (H.R. 606) to rename the post office after Mr. McCraw unanimously passed the House and Senate before being signed into law last year (PL 115-283). Congressman DeSaulnier will be joined by Mr. McCraw’s family, friends, and local leaders to mark the occasion. Officials from the USPS will be on hand to lay a plaque honoring Mr. McCraw. Harold D. McCraw, Sr., Post Office Naming Ceremony Friday, February 22nd 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. Richmond Main Post Office 1025 Nevin Avenue Richmond, CA 94801 This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Mr. McCraw began working for the Richmond Post Office in 1965 and served the USPS for 45 years. In addition to serving as Richmond Postmaster, he was also a distinguished member of the Richmond community. McCraw served on various boards and commissions and started the East Bay Chapter of the National Association of Postmasters of the United States (NAPUS), and was as a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Richmond Community Social Services Corporation. Please RSVP to CA.11RSVP@mail.house.gov or by calling (925) 933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Richmond or Walnut Creek. #
02.01.2019	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he and Congressman Mike Thompson (CA-5) will host a town hall to continue a national discussion on gun violence next Saturday, February 9th at 2:00 p.m. in Martinez. Senseless acts of gun violence continue to devastate communities across the country, especially after years of inaction by Congressional Republicans. Now in the Majority, Democrats are committed to making our families, schools, and communities safer. During the town hall, Representatives DeSaulnier and Thompson will discuss commonsense solutions to fight the gun violence epidemic, like the Bipartisan Background Checks Act (H.R. 8), which would improve and expand the use background checks. Constituents will also have an opportunity to ask questions and share their thoughts. Martinez Town Hall Special Topic: Gun Violence Prevention Saturday, February 9th 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Alhambra High School Performing Arts Building 150 E Street Martinez, CA 94553Doors Open at 1:30 p.m. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling (925) 933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Richmond or Walnut Creek.
01.16.2019	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host an emergency town hall on the Trump Shutdown this Saturday, January 19th at 2:00 p.m. in Lafayette. The shutdown has left 37,000 hardworking California families without a paycheck, increased wait times at airports and jeopardized air safety, closed our national parks, put tax returns at risk, and put millions of families at risk of losing or seeing reduced food assistance. This emergency town hall will serve as an opportunity to provide residents and federal workers with the latest on the Trump Shutdown. Additionally, local organizations will be on hand to assist federal workers or those who may be impacted by the shutdown. This will be Congressman DeSaulnier’s 75th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress four years ago. Lafayette Town Hall Special Topic: Trump Shutdown Saturday, January 19, 2019 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Stanley Middle School 3455 School Street Lafayette, CA 94549Doors Open at 1:30 p.m. Note: This town hall was previously scheduled for Wednesday, January 23rd, but was moved to accommodate a change in the House voting schedule caused by the shutdown.This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling (925) 933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Richmond or Walnut Creek. #
01.15.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) sent a letter to the Trump Administration urging the Department of Agriculture and U.S. Forest Service to include the East Bay of San Francisco, and communities like it, when undertaking wildfire planning and prevention in California. “At a time when the President is hostile to the State of California and threatened to pull federal emergency funding meant for wildfire victims, we need a concrete understanding of what specific steps the Trump Administration is taking to ensure the Bay Area is included in wildfire planning efforts,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Last year, Congress gave new authority to federal agencies to address wildfire risks and better manage forests (Division O, Title II of P.L. 115-141). While many of these pertain to federal forest lands, agencies are also directed to undertake wildfire hazard severity mapping for communities for areas that are “adjacent to National Forest System lands” or “affected by wildland fire, as determined by the Secretary.” Depending on how agencies interpret these guidelines, it could leave areas like parts of Contra Costa County – which are classified as having medium to high risk of wildfires – un-helped. “Part of what is so special about the Bay Area is that it is home to both 7 million people and large areas of natural open spaces. With wildfires now a threat statewide and year-round, and with climate change adding to their impacts, we cannot lose sight of the need to do prevention and risk mitigation on lands close to our population centers, including in many areas of Contra Costa County,” DeSaulnier concluded. “The East Bay Regional Park District’s professional firefighters and operational staff are on-guard as dramatic weather-related events have extended the threat of wildfire. Rep. DeSaulnier should be applauded for his tireless efforts to address the wildfire risk in our suburban and urban communities,” said East Bay Regional Park District General Manager Robert Doyle. “We are grateful for the important work of the U.S. Forest Service wildfire teams working with state and local firefighters to halt the wildfires in California this past year. As proactive, preventative work is critical to these ongoing efforts focused on wildfires, it will be important that the U.S. Forest Service, state and local wildfire teams also work together to look at the communities of Contra Costa County and the East Bay of the San Francisco Bay Area, even though this area does not contain lands under the National Forest System, because this area is densely populated and next to large open space areas rich in conservation values,” said Ted Clement, Executive Director of Save Mount Diablo.A copy of DeSaulnier’s letter can be found here. #
01.11.2019	Concord, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host a town hall meeting at Clayton Valley Charter High School in Concord on Wednesday, January 23rd at 6:30 p.m. This will be Congressman DeSaulnier’s 75th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress four years ago. During the town hall, Congressman DeSaulnier will provide a legislative update on what is happening in Washington, including an overview of the government shutdown and Democrats’ priorities this Congress, take questions from constituents, and discuss the services his office can provide. Concord Town Hall Wednesday, January 23, 2019 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Clayton Valley Charter High School Multiuse Room 1101 Alberta Way Concord, CA 9452Doors Open at 6:00 p.m. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Richmond or Walnut Creek. #
01.10.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced legislation to improve the safety and upkeep of important water supply infrastructure. The Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act (H.R. 432/S. 93) would transfer the title of the Contra Costa Canal System from the Bureau of Reclamation to the Contra Costa Water District (CCWD), enabling the CCWD to undertake necessary upgrades to the system. “The aging Contra Costa Canal is in need of critical safety and structural improvements to prevent accidents, water leaks, and water quality degradation,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “By transferring ownership of the canal from the federal government to the Contra Costa Water District, we can help streamline these improvements and revitalize the land surrounding the canal for the enjoyment of local residents. I thank Senator Feinstein for her partnership on this legislation, which promises to benefit our local communities.” “This is commonsense legislation to facilitate much-needed safety improvements to the Contra Costa Canal,” said Senator Feinstein. “If the water district is willing and ready to make these improvements, there’s no reason the federal government should stand in the way. Transferring the title will help save lives and modernize the Contra Costa Canal system.” Built between 1937 and 1948, the Contra Costa Canal delivers water both to homes and businesses throughout Contra Costa County, and also to the Sacramento and San Joaquin Valleys for irrigation. The 48-mile canal system is currently exposed, but following the transfer the CCWD will work to enclose it in a surface tunnel. Since the Contra Costa Canal has been operational, 81 people have drowned in the canal. H.R. 432/S. 93 would help eliminate safety risks while maintaining recreation opportunities, including restoring land located in the Concord Naval Weapons Station. “Gaining title of the Contra Costa Canal is so very important as we look at the future of this critical facility,” said Lisa Borba, President of the Contra Costa Water District’s Board of Directors. “We thank Congressman DeSaulnier and Senator Dianne Feinstein for all the work they are doing to move this bill to a successful outcome.” “The Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act has the Park District’s support and ensures the existing recreation agreement for Contra Loma Regional Park and Contra Costa Canal Trail continues and is recognized in the legislation. We thank Rep. Desaulnier and Sen. Feinstein for their leadership to pass the Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act and continued support for the East Bay Regional Parks,” said Robert Doyle, General Manager, East Bay Regional Park District. During the 115th Congress, both Congressman DeSaulnier and Senator Feinstein introduced similar legislation. The House version of the bill unanimously passed in the U.S. House of Representatives. #
01.10.2019	Washington, DC – Today, on the eve of over 800,000 federal workers missing their regularly scheduled paychecks due to the government shutdown, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) sent a letter to the Consumer Bankers Association, the Credit Union National Association, and the Mortgage Bankers Association recognizing credit unions for offering interest-free loans to federal workers. The letter also highlights DeSaulnier’s hope that other financial institutions will follow suit. “Several credit unions across the country have begun offering interest-free loans to impacted federal workers. I applaud these organizations for prioritizing customer well-being, and am certain that this will be of great assistance to countless workers and families,” wrote DeSaulnier. If the Trump Shutdown continues into tomorrow, January 11th, over 800,000 federal workers will miss their scheduled paychecks, and the impact will be felt across the country. Eighty-five percent of the federal workforce resides outside of the District of Columbia. For instance, in California over 37,000 federal workers and their families will miss a paycheck. “There are opportunities to prevent potentially catastrophic consequences for millions of Americans through cooperation and compassion. I will continue to work in Congress to re-open the government and ensure public employees and contractors are paid, and I appreciate those companies that are stepping up to help during this difficult time,” DeSaulnier continued. Full text of the letters can be found here. #
01.08.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) released the following statement after a new report by the Department of Defense (DoD) Inspector General detailed that the Department of Defense let $28 billion in funding expire. The DoD was given this funding with the requirement that it be spent in a certain time frame, which the DoD did not meet. “The Department of Defense is plagued by a lack of transparency and accountability. Last year alone, the DoD had so much extra money and so little oversight that it left $28 billion on the table. Despite having a clearly bloated budget, the agency continues to ask for more and more money, and Congress keeps writing them blank checks. We must reevaluate where we invest our resources, and push for a better, more complete picture of the DoD’s finances in order to correct course and address departmental waste, while still protecting our troops and their families at home and abroad.” This Inspector General report was released in response to the DoD completing its first-ever, comprehensive audit in November 2018. Congressman DeSaulnier has introduced the Department of Defense Waste Reduction Act (H.R. 2367 in the 115th Congress) to prevent the DoD from receiving any additional funding until wasteful spending practices within the Department are addressed. Additionally, he and Congresswoman Jackie Speier successfully requested Congressional hearings to investigate the DoD’s spending practices. Since coming to Congress, DeSaulnier has never voted in favor of the annual bill to authorize defense spending. #
12.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the government shutdown. “This government shutdown was entirely avoidable and is the responsibility of President Trump, who boasted that he was ‘proud to shut down the government.' He put far right radio and TV pundits ahead of the American people and created uncertainty and instability for more than 420,000 federal workers who are furloughed or will be forced to work without pay this holiday season. House Democrats were poised to vote in favor of a clean plan to temporarily fund the government and were denied. Republicans have the ability to reopen the government at any time. If they don’t, Democrats will take control of the House in January and govern responsibly. I stand ready to work with my colleagues to reopen the government at the earliest possible date.” #
12.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that legislation he authored to rename the Nevin Avenue Post Office in Richmond, California as the “Harold D. McCraw, Sr., Post Office Building” (H.R. 606) has been signed into law. Harold D. McCraw, Sr. was a distinguished and dedicated civil servant, who began working for the Richmond Post Office in 1965 and served the United States Postal Service (USPS) for 45 years. The bill passed both the House and Senate unanimously, before being signed into law (PL 115-283). “The City of Richmond is, and has always been, home to hardworking, compassionate, and dedicated citizens who put community and country first,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Renaming the Nevin Avenue Post Office in honor of Mr. McCraw is a fitting tribute to his commitment and service to the United States Postal Service and the Richmond community.” “My brother loved living in Richmond and working for USPS. He was the type of man who gave his all to everything he did. I was proud of him throughout his life, but today I am particularly proud and touched that his memory will live on in a place he truly loved,” said Annie Jones, sister of Harlod D. McCraw. “I thank Congressman DeSaulnier for his hard work on behalf of my family. The news of this renaming becoming law has brought us much happiness.” Mr. McCraw not only served as Richmond Postmaster, but was also an active member of the Richmond community, serving on various boards and commissions, and starting the East Bay Chapter of the National Association of Postmasters of the United States (NAPUS). He also served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Richmond Community Social Services Corporation, where he facilitated the development of a child care facility that has expanded to five locations and cares for hundreds of children. "Our residents, businesses and employees all recognize the Downtown Richmond Post Office as a critical public and historic resource. We are thrilled that Mr. McCraw's legacy has been honored and it is especially significant now that this landmark was spared from closure earlier this year," said Richmond Mayor Tom Butt. "Harold McCraw's leadership has shown through and now the Post Office will serve as a reminder of our community's strength and character." Earlier this year, Congressman DeSaulnier played an active role in saving the Nevin Avenue Post Office building from being sold. After urging the United States Post Office to reconsider their plans to sell the building, issuing public comment opposing the plan, and working with the Mayor and the City of Richmond to explore purchasing the post office to keep it in public use, Congressman DeSaulnier was informed in July of 2018 that all plans to sell the building have been halted. ​ #
11.19.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier announced the introduction of the Suicide Prevention Assistance Act (H.R. 7116), which establishes a new grant program at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to expand suicide prevention efforts for adults in doctor’s offices and other primary care settings. “My father was a proud World War II Marine veteran who committed suicide on April 20, 1989, and is buried at Arlington National Cemetery. He gave no indication of the despair he was in nor did he seek my or anyone else’s help. Only half of all Americans experiencing major depression receive treatment, but 64% of people who commit suicide met with their primary care doctor within one month of taking their life. We should be integrating mental health screenings as part of primary care visits and intervening when necessary. The goal is to recognize the signs and get people immediate, on the spot help,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, the nation’s largest suicide prevention organization, thanks Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) for introducing H.R. 7116 to provide suicide prevention resources in primary care settings, one of our Project 2025’s critical prevention areas. We are grateful to have an ally like Congressman DeSaulnier to champion this issue; it is critically important that we increase resources in this arena. Our advocates have been calling on Congress to make suicide prevention a national priority – Congressman DeSaulnier listened, took action, and we hope his colleagues will follow his example,” said John Madigan, American Foundation for Suicide Prevention’s Senior Vice President and Chief Public Policy Officer. “Each year in the US more than 45,000 people tragically take their own life making suicide one of the leading causes of death across the nation. The Suicide Prevention Assistance Act fills a vital role in addressing this public health concern by providing primary care offices the tools and resources they need to effectively reach patients and provide them with the critical assistance they need,” said Colleen Creighton, Executive Director, American Association of Suicidology. “Mortality from suicide in the United States now exceeds that for breast cancer and prostate cancer. In men ages 35 to 55 is actually increasing. We need to further develop effective strategies for suicide prevention and begin adopting them on a wider scale. Congressman DeSaulnier’s legislation is an important step toward that important goal,” said the National Alliance on Mental Illness. Specifically, Congressman DeSaulnier’s legislation creates grants to have an on-site mental health professional assist when necessary in primary care settings, helps connect patients with additional long-term mental health care, and requires SAMHSA to develop best practices for screening for self-harm and suicide prevention. #
11.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Don Beyer (VA-08), Jared Huffman (CA-02), and Barbara Lee (CA-13) called on Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to expand any investigation into Facebook and Cambridge Analytica at the Department of Justice (DOJ). The request urges DOJ to investigate whether Facebook hid information about the misuse of the platform by foreign governments during the 2016 Presidential Election and/or retaliated against those seeking to increase government accountability of the platform. New reporting by the New York Times found that Facebook took significant steps to undermine critics by using partisan political consultants to retaliate against them. “Not only did these executives fail to disclose this information to relevant law enforcement officials and the public, but they also actively worked to cover it up and discredit anyone who attempted to hold the company accountable,” wrote the Members. “These actions not only show bad faith on the part of Facebook, but could have implications for securities and campaign finance law,” the Members continued. Congressman DeSaulnier also called on Facebook to provide information on these allegations, and asked California Attorney General Xavier Becerra to consider looking into the matter. The full text of the letter can be found here. #
11.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued the following statement after the Department of Defense (DoD) failed its first-ever agency wide audit. “After years of pressing for this audit, today’s findings confirm what we expected: a lack of transparency and accountability has led to decades of wasteful spending at the DoD. Also concerning is what this process has revealed about the culture at DoD, with one official admitting, ‘[w]e never thought we were going to pass an audit.’ The long-overdue details of the report should send a strong signal to Congress that the years of authorizing bloated defense spending without accountability must come to an end.” “With this irrefutable evidence, I will press DoD to make necessary reforms and will work with relevant committees when we are in the Majority in January to hold DoD accountable. It is time we heed the warning of President Eisenhower and ‘guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex.’ This mess will take years to remedy so we must correct course now while being faithful to the service and dedication of our troops and their families at home and abroad.” Congressman DeSaulnier introduced the Department of Defense Waste Reduction Act (H.R. 2367) to prevent DoD from receiving any additional funding until wasteful spending practices within the Department are addressed. Additionally, he and Congresswoman Jackie Speier successfully requested congressional hearings to investigate DoD’s spending practices. Since coming to Congress, DeSaulnier has never voted in favor of the annual bill to authorize defense spending. #
11.08.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to the unconstitutional appointment of Matthew Whitaker to oversee Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. “Donald Trump bypassed the Senate’s advice and consent role by appointing Matthew Whitaker to oversee the Mueller probe without Senate approval. In doing so, the President is attempting to erode the checks and balances laid out in our Constitution. I, along with my Democratic colleagues, am prepared and ready to fight this troubling move. It is time to protect the rule of law, Constitution, and our country from this illegal and unconstitutional act by the President of the United States. In the interim, Matthew Whitaker must recuse himself from the Mueller investigation and adhere to any recommendations made by the independent Office of Government Ethics.” DeSaulnier is a sponsor of the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act (H.R. 5476), authored by House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerry Nadler (D-NY), which would limit President Trump's ability to fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller and interfere in the Russian election meddling investigation. Senators Tillis, Coons, Booker, and Graham have introduced bipartisan companion legislation in the Senate. #
11.05.2018	Washington, DC – Today, on the eve of the midterm election, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced the Bots Research Act, which would establish a new task force at the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to determine the impact of automated social media accounts, often referred to as “bots,” on public discourse and elections. “Bot accounts can disseminate false information to alter public opinion with superhuman speed. There is clear evidence that bad actors used bots during the 2016 election with the sole purpose of destabilizing public discourse and undermining our elections,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Estimates suggest that roughly 48 million active users on Twitter are bots, and in November 2017, Facebook testified that upwards of 60 million automated accounts have been deployed on its platform. In the months since, Twitter has notified 1.4 million Americans that they interacted with or promoted Russian-linked activities during the 2016 Presidential election. “Despite bots’ dangers, there is still widespread disagreement on how best to regulate these accounts. Before we can effectively police this realm, we need experts to come to the table and create guidelines that protect both cybersecurity and First Amendment rights, and that can keep pace with an ever-changing innovation sector. Without this key piece of the process, we cannot safeguard our democracy,” DeSaulnier concluded. The task force—comprised of government, academic, and industry experts—will define what qualifies as a “bot,” identify how broadly these accounts are used, and recommend how best to combat their negative effects. The task force will report its findings to Congress and other relevant federal agencies to help inform future legislative action. In February, Congressman DeSaulnier called on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee to convene a hearing on the sale, abuse, and possible influence social media bots could have had on the 2016 Presidential election. #
10.29.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) announced that bipartisan legislation he authored with Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) to help curb fraudulent opioid prescriptions was signed into law as part of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6). This comprehensive bipartisan, bicameral agreement to address the opioid epidemic is the result of many months of Congressional hearings and negotiations to help make treatment more readily available, improve research for new non-addictive prescription painkillers, and help prevent “doctor shopping.” DeSaulnier and Carter’s bill, originally introduced as the Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act (H.R. 4275), included in the opioid package, would require the Department of Health and Human Services, Drug Enforcement Administration, and other relevant agencies to produce and disseminate materials for pharmacists, health care professionals, and the public that provide guidance on when and how pharmacists can refuse to fill a prescription that they believe to be fraudulent. “In the last 20 years the opioid prescribing rate has increased by 56 percent, bringing the risk of forged, fraudulent, or altered prescriptions to new heights. Too often these deadly drugs end up in the wrong hands,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “By empowering pharmacists to fully exercise their right to deny suspected fraudulent prescriptions we can help save lives and begin addressing this crisis head on. I am proud to lead this effort with Congressman Buddy Carter, and we look forward to continuing to find new ways to combat this epidemic which has claimed too many lives and devastated many communities nationwide.” “It is great news that this measure is now law” said Congressman Carter. “As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I know firsthand that in many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing. This legislation will ensure pharmacists and health care professionals have the tools they need in this situation. I am proud to lead this fight with my friend Representative DeSaulnier as it is a critical part of our bipartisan fight to end this crisis.” #
10.17.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Jerry McNerney (CA-09) Eric Swalwell (CA-15), and Mike Thompson (CA-05) hosted a ceremony to present 99 local veterans from Contra Costa County and the region with the Korean Ambassador for Peace Medal. This honor is bestowed on Korean War veterans in recognition of their service to the Republic of Korea and their sacrifice for the nation’s freedoms. The award was presented by the Members of Congress and the Consul General of the Republic of Korea. “It is an honor to recognize veterans from Contra Costa who served during the Korean War and took part in the United Nations peacekeeping mission during and after the war. Although those honored today served 65 years ago, their role in promoting peace and fighting aggression in the ‘Forgotten War’ must always be remembered,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. We owe them and their families a debt of gratitude.” “Our nation’s veterans have given so much in service to our country, and we should take every opportunity we have to express our gratitude,” said Congressman McNerney. “It was a privilege to join my colleagues in honoring those who served in the Korean War, and to thank them for their bravery and sacrifice.” “These veterans served bravely and selflessly, becoming heroes to two nations,” said Congressman Swalwell. “Time should never be a barrier to gratitude. I’m glad we could help get them the recognition they deserve.” “Far too many Korean War veterans returned home with no recognition of their service and without a grateful nation to greet them. Today’s ceremony rights that wrong, honoring local veterans and their families who sacrificed to protect freedom around the globe,” said Congressman Thompson. “I am humbled to have the chance to recognize these veterans and their families and further cement the important bonds between our nation and South Korea.” #
10.10.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) unveiled a bill to holistically address America’s housing crisis by incentivizing innovation and community specific solutions. The Housing Innovation Act (H.R. 7054) would create a new Office of Housing Innovation at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to assist local governments in increasing and diversifying the housing supply, and creates grants to help communities plan for new housing. “America is on the verge of a major housing crisis, especially in high-cost regions like the Bay Area. Working families in communities across the country have few affordable housing options within a reasonable distance to their workplace. The tradeoff becomes traveling great lengths to their jobs and spending hours stuck in traffic rather than with their families,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “There is no one-size-fits-all solution to these challenges. This bill helps communities explore much-needed innovative housing solutions like expanding common amenities for a younger workforce, building accessory dwelling units—like basement apartments or converting garages into housing—and adapting one or several buildings into multiple housing units.” Since 1960, renters’ median earnings have increased only 5 percent while rents have spiked 61 percent. At the same time, homeowners earn 50 percent more than in 1960, but home prices have skyrocketed by 112 percent. In the Bay Area the average rent reached more than $2,500 in 2016, and approximately half of renters were severely cost-burdened, paying more than 30 percent of their income on housing costs. Under this bill, the new Office of Housing Innovation will administer three types of grants: Developing Local Housing Plans: For local housing plans that expand and diversify the housing supply, improve affordability, and reduce congestion. Furthering Research and Pilot Projects: For research and pilot projects led by partnerships involving at least one government, university, or nonprofit organization to explore improving the “first mile” and “last mile” commuting experience, housing college students, facilitating home sharing for elderly residents, integrating business and commercial activity with residential neighborhoods, and studying modular building techniques or other approaches to reducing housing costs. Improving Public Discussion: Grants for education activities to fund partnerships with at least one academic institution to further public discussion and education on housing and community development. #
10.06.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after the United States Senate voted to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court by a vote of 50-to-48. “This is a transformative moment in our history where women are speaking out and taking great risks to make their voices heard. While our Constitution and its subsequent amendments guarantee equality for women, we as a country have yet to fulfill that promise. Unfortunately, some people want to go back in time. They believe that an “enlightened” world of white males is what makes this country great. Today, a black mark in our history was made by a President who forcefully elevated to the Supreme Court a man who was not properly investigated, committed perjury before the U.S. Senate, and has neither the moral character nor judicial temperament to be a judge in any court in the United States of America. In times like these, things do not come easily – they come with a struggle, but we cannot let our voices be silenced. This is a country that should inspire merit irrespective of gender, ethnicity, or sexual preference. We must keep fighting for justice, equality, and a better America.” #
10.05.2018	Washington, DC — Today, four safety measures authored by Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) to help prevent runway accidents were signed into law as part of the bipartisan bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for five years. Between 2011 and 2017, the U.S. has seen an 83 percent increase in runway incursions, as well as a series of high profile near misses across the country and in Congressman DeSaulnier’s backyard at San Francisco International Airport (SFO). The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302) makes necessary safety improvements, modernizes airports, and improves the passenger flying experience. H.R. 302 is the first long-term reauthorization of the agency since 2012. “As a frequent flyer, I feel fortunate that our nation’s air travel system is safe and the number of accidents have steadily declined in recent years. However, the recent rise in near-miss incidents across the country has given us reason to pause and evaluate if we are doing all we can to prevent accidents before a catastrophe occurs,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Our safety provisions will address some of the challenges that contributed to high profile close calls and are a step in the right direction. Regardless, there is still more work to be done, and I am currently drafting legislation that will address remaining gaps in aviation safety.” DeSaulnier’s amendments included in H.R. 302 would improve the use of technology and data to support the work of pilots, air traffic controllers, and FAA safety inspectors to ensure safe landings through: Better Alerts to Air Traffic Controllers: Requiring the FAA to review ways to expand and improve the use of technology that can alert air traffic controllers when an airplane is improperly aligned before landing. Following the July 7th Air Canada incident, SFO’s air traffic control made changes to its use of this equipment, and this change should be explored at other airports. Audible Notifications to Pilots: Assessing the benefits of equipping all aircraft with systems that provide an audible alert to pilots, notifying them of their alignments as they are nearing a runway. Reducing Risks Associated with Power Outages: Protecting key systems, such as communication, navigation, and surveillance systems, from disruption caused by a power outage or other similar unforeseen circumstances. The December 29, 2017 Horizon Air taxiway landing at Pullman-Moscow airport was likely compounded by a power outage that caused the runway lights to fail, and the status of runway lights at SFO on the night of July 7th may have added to the confusion of the Air Canada pilots. Improving Data Analysis for Safety: Requiring an updated review of an FAA program for analyzing data for identifying safety issues and recommending actions before accidents occur. In review of the July 7th near miss incident at SFO, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) voted on the probable cause of the close call and put forth several safety recommendations. Congressman DeSaulnier’s amendments included in H.R. 302 incorporate many of NTSB’s recommendations. Additionally, Mark is drafting legislation to address other gaps in aviation safety and to analyze human factors that could contribute to near misses. In February, DeSaulnier led a request with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA) for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review data on safety incidents and the FAA’s framework for responding to such incidents. The GAO has accepted their request, and began preliminary work this week. The final report is expected to be issued in the Spring of 2019. #
10.02.2018	Richmond, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host a town hall meeting at Lovonya DeJean Middle School in Richmond on Tuesday, October 23, 2018 at 6:30 p.m. This will be Congressman DeSaulnier’s 74th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress in January 2015. During the town hall, Congressman DeSaulnier will provide a legislative update on what is happening in Washington, take questions from constituents, and discuss the services his office can provide. Richmond Town Hall Tuesday, October 23, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Lovonya DeJean Middle School Multipurpose Room 3400 Macdonald Avenue Richmond, CA 94805Doors Open at 6:00 p.m. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Richmond or Walnut Creek. #
10.01.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host one-on-one meetings with constituents during Mobile District Office Hours on Wednesday, October 3rd from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. during the El Cerrito Senior Resource Fair. Since being elected to Congress, DeSaulnier has hosted 72 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. Mark will be on hand to share thoughts and to answer questions about federal legislation or to assist with issues related to Social Security, Medicare, the Veteran’s Administration, or other federal agencies. Prior to hosting office hours, DeSaulnier will speak at the resource fair. Congressman DeSaulnier Hosts Mobile District Office Hours Wednesday, October 3, 2018 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. El Cerrito Community Center 7007 Moeser Lane El Cerrito, CA 94530Details: First come, first served. No appointment necessary. This event is open to all residents of California’s 11th Congressional District. For more information or to confirm you are a resident of the 11th district, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
10.01.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Dave Brat (R-VA) announced that their bipartisan bill, the “Congressional Award Program Act of 2018,” to reauthorize the Congressional Award program for five years unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The program, which is a non-partisan, voluntary, and non-competitive program to honor young Americans who set and accomplish their own goals, was scheduled to expire on October 1, 2018. “The Congressional Award Foundation is Congress’s only charity and the highest honor a Member of the House or Senate can present to a youth civilian. Since the program was established in 1979, young Americans have contributed over 8.5 million hours of public service to communities around the country. It is an important way to honor dedicated youth, and I encourage Contra Costa’s young people, and others around the country, to participate in the program,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I am grateful my colleagues chose to support and renew the Congressional Award Program. As a former professor, I have loved helping young people achieve success,” said Congressman Brat. “The students that participate in this program learn how to chart a course and follow it – which is, of course, a lifelong skill that will serve these outstanding young people for years afterwards. Keep up the good work, Congressional Award Program!” Participants may register when they turn 13 ½ years old and must complete their activities by their 24th birthday. Congressional Award participants earn Bronze, Silver, and Gold Congressional Award Certificates and Bronze, Silver, and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves setting goals in four program areas: Voluntary Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. The U.S. Congress established the Congressional Award to recognize initiative, service, and achievement in young people and it was originally signed into law by President Jimmy Carter. #
09.28.2018	Washington, DC – Today, legislation authored by Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) to help curb fraudulent opioid prescriptions passed the House of Representatives as part of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6). This massive bipartisan, bicameral agreement to address the opioid epidemic is the result of many months of Congressional hearings and negotiations to help make treatment more readily available, improve research for new non-addictive prescription painkillers, and help prevent “doctor shopping.” The package passed by a vote of 393-to-8. DeSaulnier and Carter’s bill, originally introduced as the Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act (H.R. 4275), included in the opioid package would require the Department of Health and Human Services, Drug Enforcement Administration, and other relevant agencies to produce and disseminate materials for pharmacists, health care professionals, and the public that provide guidance on when and how pharmacists can refuse to fill a prescription that they believe to be fraudulent. “As our nation continues to suffer from the opioid epidemic, empowering pharmacists—who often serve as the last line of defense in the fight against prescription drug abuse—to exercise their right to deny suspected fraudulent prescriptions is critical,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I am pleased that our bill is a part of this extensive agreement to show people across the country that we are stepping up to help combat the opioid epidemic.” “Approval of this legislation today is great news,” said Congressman Carter. “As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I know firsthand that in many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing. This legislation will ensure pharmacists and health care professionals have the tools they need in this situation. I am proud to lead this fight with my friend Representative DeSaulnier as it is a critical part of our bipartisan fight to end this crisis.” #
09.26.2018	Washington, DC — Today, four safety measures authored of Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) to help prevent runway accidents passed the U.S. House of Representatives as part of the bipartisan bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for five years. Between 2011 and 2017, the U.S. has seen an alarming 83 percent increase in runway incursions, as well as a series of high profile near misses across the country and in Congressman DeSaulnier’s backyard at San Francisco International Airport (SFO). The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302) which passed the House by a vote of 398-to-23, would make necessary safety improvements, modernize airports, and improve the passenger flying experience. H.R. 302 is the first long-term reauthorization of the agency since 2012. “Each of our amendments began with one goal in mind: to make our aviation system safer,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “While this bipartisan legislation will help provide much-needed certainty and stability for the FAA, there is more work to be done to address gaps in safety. With such an alarming number of close calls recently due to human errors, we should learn all we can from recent incidents and take action to protect the public now rather than waiting for a catastrophic accident. We are drafting legislation that will enhance aviation safety and bring the industry in line with others that proactively plan for and minimize the human factors that can contribute to an accident.” DeSaulnier’s amendments included in H.R. 302 would improve the use of technology and data to support the work of pilots, air traffic controllers, and FAA safety inspectors to ensure safe landings through: Better Alerts to Air Traffic Controllers: Requiring the FAA to review ways to expand and improve the use of technology that can alert air traffic controllers when an airplane is improperly aligned before landing. Following the July 7th Air Canada incident, SFO’s air traffic control made changes to its use of this equipment, and this change should be explored at other airports. Audible Notifications to Pilots: Assessing the benefits of equipping all aircraft with systems that provide an audible alert to pilots, notifying them of their alignments as they are nearing a runway. Reducing Risks Associated with Power Outages: Protecting key systems, such as communication, navigation, and surveillance systems, from disruption caused by a power outage or other similar unforeseen circumstances. The December 29, 2017 Horizon Air taxiway landing at Pullman-Moscow airport was likely compounded by a power outage that caused the runway lights to fail, and the status of runway lights at SFO on the night of July 7th may have added to the confusion of the Air Canada pilots. Improving Data Analysis for Safety: Improving the use of data for identifying safety issues and recommending action before accidents occur. Yesterday, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) voted on the probable cause of the July 7th near miss incident at SFO and put forth safety recommendations, some of which are addressed by the amendments Congressman DeSaulnier included in H.R. 302. Additionally, Mark is drafting legislation to address other gaps in aviation safety and to analyze human factors that could contribute to near misses. In February, DeSaulnier led a request with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA) for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review data on safety incidents and the FAA’s framework for responding to such incidents. The GAO has accepted their request, and began preliminary work this week. The final report is expected to be issued in the Spring of 2019. #
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee unanimously passed his legislation to rename the Nevin Avenue Post Office in Richmond, California as the “Harold D. McCraw, Sr., Post Office Building.” “I am pleased that our effort to rename the Nevin Avenue Post Office in honor of Harold D. McCraw, Sr. and his many decades of service to the United States Postal Service and the community of Richmond is one is one step closer to becoming law,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Mr. McCraw was a dedicated public servant, a pillar in the Richmond community, and is more than deserving of this tribute.” Mr. McCraw not only served as Richmond Postmaster, but was also an active member of the Richmond community, serving on various boards and commissions, and starting the East Bay Chapter of the National Association of Postmasters of the United States. He also served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Richmond Community Social Services Corporation, where he facilitated the development of a child care facility that has expanded to five locations and cares for hundreds of children. Harold’s contributions helped make the community of Richmond a more just and fair place to live. Earlier this month, this bill (H.R. 606) was unanimously passed in the House of Representatives. It will now be voted on by the full Senate. If passed, it will move to the President’s desk to be signed into law. #
09.21.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, while hosting the East Bay Biden Cancer Community Summit, one of more than 450 across the globe, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) unveiled his bill to better support patients before, during, and after a cancer diagnosis. The bipartisan Patient Navigation Assistance Act (H.R. 6808), authored with fellow cancer survivor and co-chair of the Congressional Cancer Survivors Caucus Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX), would expand the use of patient navigators by requiring Medicaid to reimburse for patient navigation services. The summit itself was held in conjunction with Vice President Joe Biden and Dr. Jill Biden’s worldwide call to action to double the progress in treating and curing cancer. “As someone who has heard the three words ‘you have cancer’ and immediately experienced the confusion of thoughts, fears, anxieties, and unknowns that come with it, I know that having a trained professional to help provide logistical and emotional assistance through the complicated treatment process is beneficial and reassuring,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Patient navigators guide cancer patients and their families through the complexities of the health care system by providing services like communicating with a patient’s health care team, managing medical paperwork, connecting patients with doctors, scheduling appointments, arranging transportation to and from treatment, and answering insurance questions. They have been shown to reduce health care disparities in underserved populations and improve the mental health of cancer patients.” “By the end of 2018, nearly 1.8 million people will have had their lives turned upside down by a cancer diagnosis. As a cancer survivor, I understand how difficult the following stages of the treatment process are,” said Congressman Poe. “This bill will ensure Medicaid patients are reimbursed by the state for patient navigation services received. Whether it is arranging transportation to and from the hospital, helping patients to better communicate with their doctors, helping patients better understand their diagnosis and treatment process, or providing counseling and support, patient navigators alleviate burdens placed on patients.” “A cancer diagnosis can be overwhelming. Patients who are assisted by navigators are more likely to receive recommended preventive services and have chronic conditions that are better managed compared with those without access to these services” said Chris Hansen, president of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network. “This legislation will help patients overcome health care system barriers and facilitate timely access to quality medical and psychosocial care from pre-diagnosis through all phases of the cancer experience.” “Patient navigation has shown positive outcomes for people at risk of cancer and for those being treated for cancer. ONS is pleased to work with Rep. DeSaulnier and the bill’s patient navigation advisory committee to ensure access to patient-centered quality cancer care,” said Laura Fennimore, Oncology Nursing Society (ONS) President “The Association of American Cancer Institutes (AACI) thanks Representatives Mark DeSaulnier and Ted Poe for introducing The Patient Navigation Assistance Act. Patient navigators are essential to the well-being of many cancer patients, who may be overwhelmed by the challenges they face on their cancer journey, from diagnosis and treatment to survivorship. Many AACI cancer centers offer patient navigation services without knowing whether the costs will be covered. This uncertainty not only impacts patients, but also our ability to train and certify our navigators – a vital part of the cancer care team. Ensuring these services are available for patients with cancer on Medicaid is a step in the right direction,” said Stanton L. Gerson, MD, President, Association of American Cancer Institutes (AACI) and Director of the Case Comprehensive Cancer Center. A complete list of the groups supporting H.R. 6808 includes: American Cancer Society – Cancer Action Network, American Society of Clinical Oncologists, Association of American Cancer Institutes, Livestrong, National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship, National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Oncology Nursing Society, and the American College of Surgeons Commission on Cancer. #
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, legislation authored by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) to rename the Nevin Avenue Post Office in Richmond, California as the “Harold D. McCraw, Sr., Post Office Building” (H.R. 606) unanimously passed out of the U.S. House of Representatives. Harold D. McCraw, Sr. was a distinguished and dedicated civil servant, who began working for the Richmond Post Office in 1965 and served the United States Postal Service for 45 years. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. “Renaming the Nevin Avenue Post Office in honor of Harold D. McCraw Sr. is a fitting tribute to honor his unwavering commitment and service to the United States Postal Service and the community of Richmond,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “In many ways, Mr. McCraw’s hard work, compassion, and dedication are emblematic of Richmond residents. Naming this building in his honor puts those values on display in the heart of the community.” "The Downtown Richmond Post Office is an important public resource that Congressman DeSaulnier and I have fought hard to preserve," said Mayor Tom Butt. "Our residents greatly value the importance of racial equity and resilience which is echoed by the renaming of this landmark in honor of Mr. McCraw. During this period of chaos and fear in Washington D.C. I am heartened to see the Richmond Post Office stand as a symbol of our community's leadership."“I am so overwhelmed and so happy that this bill is moving forward,” said Annie Jones, sister of Harlod D. McCraw. “My family will be so excited to see Harold’s name on the post office—it was a place my brother truly loved.” Mr. McCraw not only served as Richmond Postmaster, but was also an active member of the Richmond community, serving on various boards and commissions, and starting the East Bay Chapter of the National Association of Postmasters of the United States (NAPUS). He also served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Richmond Community Social Services Corporation, where he facilitated the development of a child care facility that has expanded to five locations and cares for hundreds of children. Harold’s contributions helped make the community of Richmond a more just and fair place to live. Earlier this year, Congressman DeSaulnier played an active role in saving the Nevin Avenue Post Office building from being sold. After urging the United States Post Office to reconsider their plans to sell the building, issuing public comment opposing the plan, and working with the Mayor and the City of Richmond to explore purchasing the post office to keep it in public use, Congressman DeSaulnier was informed in July of 2018 that all plans to sell the building have been halted. #
09.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that his bill to improve the Contra Costa Canal unanimously passed in the U.S. House of Representatives, and now heads to the Senate for consideration. The Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act (H.R. 6040) would transfer the title of the canal system from the Bureau of Reclamation to the Contra Costa Water District (CCWD) to allow for the CCWD to make necessary safety improvements to the canal. “The aging Contra Costa Canal is in need of critical safety and structural improvements to prevent against water leaks, water degradation, and other forms of contamination,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “By transferring ownership of the canal from the federal government to the Contra Costa Water District, we can help streamline these improvements and revitalize the land surrounding the canal for the enjoyment of local residents. I am pleased that this bill passed with strong bipartisan support, and I look forward to continuing to work with our Senate colleagues to move the transfer forward.” Built between 1937 and 1948, the Contra Costa Canal delivers water both to homes and businesses throughout Contra Costa County, and also to the Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys for irrigation. Since the Contra Costa Canal has been operational, 81 people have drowned in the canal. The 48-mile canal system is currently open and exposed, but following the transfer, CCWD will work to enclose it in a surface tunnel. H.R. 6040 would help prevent future accidents, limit water contamination, and improve recreation and land use in and around the canal by revitalizing land located in the Concord Naval Weapons Station. “Gaining title of the Contra Costa Canal is so very important as we look at the future of this critical facility,” said Lisa Borba, President of the Contra Costa Water District’s Board of Directors. “We thank Congressman DeSaulnier and our representatives for all the work they are doing to keep this bill moving to a successful outcome.” “The Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act has the Park District’s support and ensures the existing recreation agreement for Contra Loma Regional Park continues and is recognized in the legislation. We thank Rep. Mark Desaulnier for his outstanding leadership in passing the Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act and continued support for the East Bay Regional Parks,” said Robert Doyle, General Manager, East Bay Regional Park District. Representatives Mike Thompson (CA-05) and Jerry McNerney (CA-09) are co-sponsors of the bill. Companion legislation was also introduced in the Senate by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris. #
09.11.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host the fourth annual Congressional App Challenge (CAC) for California’s 11th District, an app coding competition for U.S. high school students. High school students who live or attend school in California’s 11th Congressional District are invited to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. “With jobs in STEM fields on the rise, providing our students with opportunities to develop and grow their coding skills is critical to ensuring that the next generation is trained with the skills needed to be competitive in the workforce of tomorrow,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “The Congressional App Challenge allows students to apply these skills and use their creativity to develop apps that are engaging and often provide solutions to everyday challenges they face. Each year I am impressed by the talent of students in Contra Costa County, and I look forward to showcasing this talent in our nation’s Capitol.” The Challenge submission period will run until October 15, 2018. Congressman DeSaulnier will recognize the submissions at a special ceremony in his District Office and the winner will be selected by a panel of local judges who work within the academic, software, and entrepreneurial fields. The winning app from California’s 11th Congressional District will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol and featured on the House of Representatives website with the winning apps from other Congressional districts. Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is a nationwide event intended to engage students' creativity and encourage their participation in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) fields. By recognizing our nation's young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The competition has continued to grow with more than 2,000 student participants last year. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit: desaulnier.house.gov/congressional-app-challenge. #
09.10.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that in conjunction with Vice President Joe Biden and Dr. Jill Biden’s national call to action to double the rate of progress against cancer, he will host an “East Bay Biden Cancer Community Summit” on Friday, September 21st in Concord. The East Bay Summit, like hundreds of other summits across the country, will focus on efforts to accelerate progress in cancer prevention, diagnosis, care, and treatment. The event will bring together members from the entire cancer community, including doctors, researchers, advocates, and survivors to share stories and discuss innovative research and new technologies. With so much promise on the horizon for cancer therapies that improve and save lives, this summit is critical to building on that momentum, driving national action, and finding a cure.This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Agenda will be provided upon request. East Bay Biden Cancer Community SummitFriday, September 21, 20181:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.Check-in Begins at 1:00 p.m. John Muir Health, Concord Medical CenterConference Room 2540 East Street Concord, CA 94520(Main Entrance on Almond Avenue) To learn more about the Biden Cancer Initiative click here. For more information about the event, to RSVP, or request ADA accommodations please call 925-933-2660 or email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov. #
09.05.2018	Washington, DC – On the heels of Labor Day, Democratic Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) today issued the findings of their “Future of Work, Wages, and Labor” initiative – launched in early 2016. The Members spent over two years traveling across the country and meeting with experts, labor leaders, and workers to develop policy proposals that address longstanding problems in the workforce and new trends like automation and contract workers. The comprehensive report goes beyond just identifying problems and provides solutions and options to confront the obstacles today’s workers face while preparing for the economy of the future. “Today’s culture of unchecked corporate power and maximizing profits has come at the expense of America’s workforce. Worker pay is stagnant and inequality is peaking, all while CEO pay rates shoot through the roof, wealthy executives are rewarded with stock buybacks, and corporations are turning profits like never before. The American worker needs help and they need help now,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I appreciate my colleagues joining with me in this effort to advance worker-centric policies and ultimately make the economy work for everyone, not just those at the top.” “Over the last several years, my colleagues and I have traveled across the country, meeting with hundreds of workers to discuss the ways in which we can address the most critical issues facing workers. The results of our conversations were clear: corporate power has reached historic levels, as has economic inequality and the weakening of workers’ rights. These outcomes are not merely coincidental and they demonstrate a serious need to repair our economic system and ensure that America’s working families are not left behind,” said Congressman Pocan. “Today’s report provides a path forward that will restore real power to employees, rein in the unchecked power that corporations use to suppress workers and wages, and grow and strengthen the American middle class. With these recommendations, we can create real change and restore the American promise that a job can provide economic security, an opportunity to get ahead, a brighter future for you and your family.” “To make our economy work for all of us, not just the rich and powerful, working people must be able stand and fight together for higher wages, better health care and a more secure retirement. I know how important it is for workers to have a voice in the workplace because I lived it. I sat at the negotiating table fighting for working families for decades, and I know we need to take smart, bold actions to help lift up America’s workers,” said Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-01), a lifelong labor leader and an electrician by trade. “I was proud to host my colleagues in South Jersey to show them the economic revitalization in the City of Camden firsthand and assemble a labor leaders’ roundtable with the top advocates for New Jersey’s workers. After travelling from coast-to-coast listening to workers, academic experts and community leaders in each other’s districts, we’ve put together a package of solutions that will provide a bright future for working families – a future with higher wages, more job training programs and equal opportunities for all.” “Our labor policies must keep up with the rapid changes the 21st Century has brought,” said Dingell. “We travelled the country hearing directly from workers. They told us the decline in collective bargaining, worker representation and the ability to form unions doesn’t just hurt workers, it hurts our communities and our economy. Strong and updated labor laws are a necessity to fight income inequality, make the American dream accessible to anyone willing to work hard, and codify workers’ rights for the future – this is what the report is all about.” “The average American worker has not received a real raise in three decades. This is not an accident; it is the product of policy choices made across all three branches of government. We must do more to level the playing field,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03). “I commend my colleagues for their hard work in developing this report and welcome their proposals as part of Democrats’ legislative agenda for the 116th Congress.” “This moment of historic collective action calls for a different approach, one where technology leads to better pay and working conditions for everyone and even greater prosperity for us to share in,” said AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka. “At the AFL-CIO, we are nearly a year into our own comprehensive process focused on shaping the future of work so it works for working people.” During the effort, the Members traveled more than 4,700 miles and held 9 public meetings. They hosted town halls with over 250 local workers, consulted over 100 experts and academics, and ultimately developed over 30 policy recommendations. A full copy of the Future of Work, Wages, and Labor report can be found here. For more information on the events hosted, experts consulted, and more click here. #
08.17.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, following recent reports that dirt from the falsified cleanup of the Hunters Point Naval Shipyard was moved to the Keller Canyon Landfill in Pittsburg, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) called for the testing of soil from Keller Canyon for radiological materials. In a letter to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Energy, Installations, and Environment, DeSaulnier asks the Navy to commit to conducting soil tests if none have been performed since the Hunters Point cleanup was manipulated. Exposure to radiological toxins has been linked to cases of asthma, cancer, and other sicknesses. “In the wake of findings that portions of the Hunters Point Naval Shipyard cleanup were manipulated or falsified, concerns in the County continue to grow about the impact dirt that has been transferred from Hunters Point Naval Shipyard has had on Keller Canyon Landfill. According to the San Francisco Chronicle, Navy officials say that Keller Canyon got more dirt from the cleanup than any other dumpsite,” wrote DeSaulnier. In April of this year, Congressman DeSaulnier asked the Navy for documentation pertaining to how the redevelopment of the Concord Naval Weapons Station (CNWS) could have been impacted, including if any of the contractors involved in the Hunters Point Shipyard cleanup have worked on the CNWS project. The Navy confirmed the company that falsified soil samples has not been involved in the CNWS radiological cleanup. A full copy of today’s letter can be found here. #
08.08.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host a town hall on “Securing Our Elections” Monday, August 13th at 6:30 p.m. with special guest California Secretary of State Alex Padilla at the Shadelands Art Center in Walnut Creek. Contra Costa residents are invited to join Congressman DeSaulnier, Secretary Padilla, and leading researchers for a discussion on how a foreign power interfered in the 2016 election, the government’s responsibility to protect the integrity of our elections, and ways to prevent a future attack. The event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Election Security Town Hall Monday, August 13th, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Shadelands Art Center 111 Wiget Lane Walnut Creek, CA 94598Special Guests: California Secretary of State Alex Padilla and election security researchersDoors open at 6:00pm Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
08.06.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host his 70th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress on the special topic of ‘The Future of Work, Wages, and Labor’ this Friday, August 10th at 6:00 p.m. in Concord. In 2016, before the presidential election, Congressman DeSaulnier saw that many American workers were being left behind. To address this, DeSaulnier launched the ‘Future of Work, Wages, and Labor’ initiative to identify ways to proactively grow and invigorate our workforce, while preparing for the future. After completing a series of cross country town halls, meetings with experts, and hearing directly from workers in different parts of the country, Congressman DeSaulnier is presenting his findings and policy proposals. The town hall will cover the big issues facing our economy including wage stagnation, the impacts of automation, what jobs will be available in the future, and the role unions play in protecting and advocating for workers.The event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Future of Work, Wages, and Labor Town Hall Friday, August 10, 2018 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. UA Local Union 342 935 Detriot Avenue Concord, CA 94518 To RSVP, visit https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. For ADA accommodations, translation services, or more information contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
08.03.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will host an immigration town hall meeting at Meadow Homes Elementary School in Concord on Saturday, August 4th. During the town hall, Congressman DeSaulnier will brief constituents on his recent trip to the U.S.-Mexico border, discuss the Trump Administration’s immigration policies and the impact these policies could have on Contra Costa, and answers questions. This will be Congressman DeSaulnier’s 69th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress in January 2015. The town hall is open to the public, press, and photographers. Immigration Town Hall Saturday, August 4th 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Meadow Homes Elementary 1371 Detroit Avenue Concord To RSVP, visit https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. For ADA accommodations, translation services, or more information contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
08.02.2018	Washington, DC – Today, immediately following the Trump Administration’s announcement that it will seek to roll back current fuel economy and emissions standards and nullify California’s waiver, Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) led a coalition of 60 Democratic Members in announcing a resolution (H.Con.Res 130) to oppose the move. The resolution demonstrates multi-state support for the existing federal clean car standards and states’ right to adopt California’s more stringent standards. Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) has authored a companion resolution in the Senate. “Simply put, this is an attack on clean air and public health. And as other countries keep their focus on increasing fuel efficiency and reducing emissions, we run the risk of losing out on this progress and innovation,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “By rolling back current fuel economy standards, the Trump Administration will cost the United States $450 billion by 2050 and increase health risks associated with air pollution. Our resolution puts the Administration on alert that this move will be met with strong and coordinated opposition across the country.” “California has long served as a model for the nation in the fight against climate change and efforts to ensure we can all breathe clean air,” said Senator Harris. “The administration has again put a target on California’s back and they have chosen to protect pollution over people. Rolling back the fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions standards will jeopardize air quality improvements and efforts to reduce reliance on fossil fuels. This decision is not based on scientific evidence and will ultimately cost Americans money at the pump. I will fight for California’s waiver and support policies that move the industry forward, provide savings for consumers, reduce reliance on fossil fuels, and help combat climate change.” This resolution is supported by numerous environmental organizations, including the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS), and the Sierra Club. “The clean car standards are already saving our families billions at the pump, supporting nearly 300,000 American jobs, and cleaning up dangerous tailpipe pollution,” said Rhea Suh, president of the Natural Resources Defense Council. “Members of Congress should join with these leaders to try and stop the Trump administration from throwing this important progress into reverse.” Current federal fuel efficiency standards established by the Obama Administration brought federal standards on par with those set by the California Air Resources Board (CARB), thereby creating the current One National Program. The CARB standards have since been adopted by 12 other states, accounting for 35 percent of the U.S. auto market, and are on track to reduce America’s oil dependence by more than 2 million barrels a day and will effectively eliminate the impact of 59 million vehicles from the road by 2030. Since the Trump Administration announced its intent to roll back current fuel standards, Congressman DeSaulnier called for a national boycott of any company that does not commit to maintaining the Obama or CARB standards, urged California’s public retirement funds to divest from companies that participate in the rollback, led a group of Democratic Members from California in echoing his call for public divestment, and called on automobile manufactures to clarify how they will respond to such a rollback. In October of 2017, DeSaulnier sent a letter to then-Environmental Protection Agency Secretary Scott Pruitt urging the Administration to maintain and strengthen current standards. DeSaulnier served on CARB for 10 years, was Chair of transportation committees in the California State Assembly and Senate, and is currently a member of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. H.Con.Res 130 is cosponsored by Representatives Nanette Barragán (CA-44), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At Large), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Anthony Brown (MD-04), Michael Capuano (MA-07), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Judy Chu (CA-27), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Susan Davis (CA-53), Diana DeGette (CO-01), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), John Garamendi (CA-03), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (GA-04), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Ruben Kihuen (NV-04) Barbara Lee (CA-13), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Daniel Lipinski (IL-03), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Donald McEachin (VA-04), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Grace Meng (NY-06), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), Scott Peters (CA-52), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jared Polis (CO-02), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Bobby Rush (IL-01), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) Adam Schiff (CA-28), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Thomas Suozzi (NY-03), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Norma Torres (CA-35), and Peter Welch (VT-At Large). #
08.01.2018	Walnut Creek, CA –Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host a Veterans Resource Fair on Tuesday, August 7th at 11:00 a.m. in Concord. During the event, representatives from federal agencies and Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs) will be on hand to provide information about the benefits available to veterans, answer questions, and discuss services. This event is open to veterans of all ages who are interested in learning more about the services they have rightfully earned. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Veterans Resource Fair Tuesday, August 7, 2018 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Centre Concord 5298 Clayton Road Concord, CA 94521 To RSVP or for more information, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
07.31.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Doug LaMalfa (CA-01) announced bipartisan legislation to improve accountability and oversight of so-called “megaprojects.” The Transportation Megaprojects Accountability and Oversight Act (H.R. 6592) would establish an independent peer review group to assess the quality assurance, cost containment, and risk management of federal highway and transportation projects that cost over $2.5 billion. While current law requires financial reporting requirements for projects costing more than $500 million, no additional oversight mechanisms exist for large, complex megaprojects. “Large infrastructure projects are vital to our country’s development and its economic growth. Yet, nine out of every 10 megaprojects experience cost overruns and many suffer significant delays that cost taxpayers millions of additional dollars. We need an oversight and review process that will help regain the public’s confidence in the government’s ability to plan, fund, and deliver these important projects and cut down on frustration, delay, and waste. The public deserves a system that manages costs, foresees risks, and holds decision-makers accountable,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “While there are some additional requirements for projects costing over $500 million, there isn’t nearly enough risk management or oversight of larger and more complex ‘megaprojects.’ These projects frequently go over budget and experience costly delays that taxpayers foot the bill for. This legislation would help make sure these large infrastructure enterprises stay on budget and on time, and local communities would be better for it,” said Congressman LaMalfa. Examples of megaprojects include: the San-Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, the I-265 Bridge between Kentucky and Indiana, the Big Dig in Boston, the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York, and Denver International Airport. H.R. 6592 would require agencies that receive federal funds for projects over $2.5 billion to submit a comprehensive risk management plan that includes a description of identified risks associated with the project, proposed mechanisms to manage such risks, and updated cost estimates, among other components. Additionally, it would establish an independent peer review group consisting of a minimum of five individuals tasked with giving expert advice on scientific, technical, and management aspects of the megaproject. As the former Chairman of the California State Senate Transportation Committee, DeSaulnier helped bring to light numerous issues surrounding the Bay Bridge including an extensive investigation and hearing on its deficiencies, which led to a $5 billion overrun and a 10-year delay. In 2013, then-Senator DeSaulnier authored legislation in California which similarly established the use of peer review processes for public works projects in the state. #
07.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced the introduction of the Metropolitan Planning Enhancement Act (H.R. 6493) to help improve the performance and accountability of our metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs), the main institutions for regional planning. H.R. 6493 would require regional transportation plans to include project descriptions and go through a transparent selection process that includes criteria, established by states, supporting regional, state, and national goals. “Requiring that projects be assessed with objective criteria removes politics from the project selection process, and ensures that limited transportation resources are invested in projects that provide the highest return on investment for taxpayers,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The bill would require projects in the Transportation Improvement Program to include a project description and be scored against the other projects in the region or state. “This legislation will greatly expand transparency of the current project selection process being used by many state DOTs and MPOs, and help rebuild public trust by ensuring investments go towards projects that provide the best outcome and achieve national program goals. We cannot continue to allow limited and valuable transportation funds to be directed towards bad investments,” DeSaulnier continued. As a former Chair of the transportation committees of the California State Legislature and a former member of the Metropolitan Transportation Commission, the Bay Area’s MPO, DeSaulnier is familiar with the difficulty of coordinating across the complex Bay Area, with nine counties and more than 20 transportation agencies. #
07.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) released the following statement after receiving an update from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) on the status of the two migrant girls who were separated from their families and held at a Pleasant Hill children’s shelter. “I was informed by HHS that the two young girls who were separated from their parents and held at a children’s shelter in Pleasant Hill were reunited with their families within the last five days. While today is the deadline for the federal government to reunify all remaining families, 900 more parents have been deemed ineligible—many with a chance of never seeing their children again. “After visiting the U.S.-Mexico border last week and witnessing mass deportations, I was saddened, shocked, and appalled. This is not the America I know that strives to live by the motto inscribed on the Statue of Liberty: ‘give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.’ Trump’s vision of America disgraces our country and erodes our values with its unethical, immoral, and illegal policies.” #
07.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) released the following statement in response to the final passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019 (H.R. 5515), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 359-to-54. “The NDAA would give an additional $717 billion to the Department of Defense. For context, that is almost four times the entire budget for the State of California. Instead of giving funding unchecked to the Pentagon, where $125 billion in bureaucratic waste has already been identified, we should be spending on only the essentials while demanding a completed audit. I have not voted in favor of any of the annual bills to authorize defense spending and will continue to oppose the measure until the DoD has completed a full audit and I am confident taxpayers’ hard earned money is spent in an open, transparent, and efficient manner that also ensures our troops’ safety.” Last year, Congressman DeSaulnier authored the Department of Defense Waste Reduction Act (H.R. 2367) to address reckless spending at the Department of Defense (DoD) and prevent it from receiving any additional funding until wasteful spending practices within the Department are addressed. #
07.25.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Oversight and Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting a review of maintenance practices for foreclosed and real estate owned (REO) properties to identify any gaps which may contribute to property neglect in certain communities. A decade after the housing and financial crisis of 2008, foreclosure still affects one in every 96 households, and another three million loans are likely to reach the foreclosure pipeline this year—leaving millions of houses potentially vulnerable to neglect. “The need for such a study is further underscored by recent lawsuits and formal complaints that have charged mortgage-servicing institutions with racial discrimination through selective neglect of REO properties in neighborhoods of color,” the Members wrote. Lawsuits against big banks, such as Deustche Bank, Wells Fargo, and most recently Bank of America, have highlighted that property neglect of foreclosed homes is disproportionately impacting communities of color. In a study of 2,400 REO properties in 29 metro areas, the National Fair Housing Alliance (NFHA) found that 6 out of 10 Bank of America-owned properties in minority neighborhoods had trash or debris on the property, double the rate of those in traditionally white areas. These findings are not isolated—similar levels of property neglect have been documented by other big banks. In February of 2018, the Northern California chapter of NFHA issued this report showing the stark difference between the upkeep of homes by Deustche Bank in the Bay Area, including homes in Richmond, Bay Point, El Sabronte, and Pittsburg. “This neglect creates a serious problem for the surrounding neighborhoods, both for the risks to health and safety as well as for the drag on local economic development, including the diminished attractiveness of the neighborhoods to new residents and homebuyers,” the Members wrote. DeSaulnier and Cummings requested that GAO address several issues in their review, including the level of spending on property maintenance during foreclosure and how it may vary by neighborhood. The Members are hoping GAO will identify the existing holes in the foreclosure process so they can work to identify policies to decrease its negative impacts. The full text of the letter can be found here. #
07.24.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) introduced the National Public Health Act (H.R. 6481) to hold corporations accountable for actions that hurt public health. “From tobacco companies to gun manufacturers, corporations across the country profit off of products that can cause sickness, disease, and even death – but they are free from consequences. Meanwhile, the American public suffers. We do not own this world, we are only caretakers of it for the next generation. By holding free riding companies accountable, we can create a healthier, more stable, and more prosperous nation,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The National Public Health Act would require the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to work with the National Academy of Medicine to establish and continuously update a list of public health crises. In addition, the Secretary of HHS would be required to develop a list of products that contribute to these public health crises. Any company that manufactures these products would then be required to develop and implement a plan to mitigate any public health impacts of the covered product. This bill is a follow-up to a bill DeSaulnier introduced in the California State Senate (SB747). #
07.18.2018	Washington, DC – Today, legislation authored by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) to help improve the Contra Costa Canal unanimously passed out of the U.S. House Natural Resources Committee and is headed to the House Floor for a vote in the coming months. The Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act (H.R. 6040), would transfer the title of the canal system from the Bureau of Reclamation to the Contra Costa Water District (CCWD) to allow for the CCWD to make necessary safety improvements to the canal. “In order to streamline improvements to our aging canal system, the ownership of the Contra Costa Canal should be transferred from the federal government to the Contra Costa Water District. I am pleased that our effort to help upgrade the Contra Costa Canal and revitalize the surrounding land for recreation, development, and the enjoyment of local residents is one step closer to becoming law,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Since the Contra Costa Canal has been operational, 81 people have drowned in the canal. The 48-mile canal system is currently exposed, but following the transfer, CCWD will work to enclose it in a surface tunnel. H.R. 6040 would help prevent these accidents and improve recreation and land use in and around the canal by revitalizing land located in the Concord Naval Weapons Station. “We appreciate the effort our representatives are devoting to keep H.R. 6040 moving through the legislative process,” said Connstance Holdaway, Vice President of the Contra Costa Water District’s Board of Directors. “The canal system is the backbone of the District’s delivery system and gaining title of the system is an important step for the future of this facility.” Representatives Mike Thompson (CA-05) and Jerry McNerney (CA-09) are co-sponsors of the bill. Companion legislation was also introduced in the Senate by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris. #
07.18.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will visit the U.S.-Mexico border in McAllen, TX on Friday, July 20th with the Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform. During the trip, Members are expected to tour the U.S. Federal Courthouse, Border Patrol Processing Center, Southwest Key shelter facility, and ICE Detention Center.Congressman DeSaulnier will be available for comment following the visit. He will also hold a town hall meeting at Meadow Homes Elementary School on Saturday, August 4th at 11:00 a.m. to brief constituents on the border visit, discuss the Trump Administration’s immigration policies and the impact on our district, and answers questions. This will be Congressman DeSaulnier’s 69th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress in January 2015. Immigration Town Hall Saturday, August 4th 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Meadow Homes Elementary 1371 Detroit Avenue Concord, CA 94520Doors Open at 10:30 a.m. The town hall is open to the public, press, and photographers. To RSVP, visit https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. For ADA accommodations, translation services, or more information contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
07.16.2018	Richmond, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that efforts by the United States Postal Service (USPS) to relocate retail operations and sell the Nevin Avenue Post Office in Richmond, California have been halted. “After discussing the potential closure with the U.S. Postmaster General, holding multiple meetings with federal postal administrators, community leaders, and the community we are pleased to announce that the Nevin Avenue Post Office will remain open and operational. We will continue our efforts to rename it after a distinguished and dedicated civil servant, who worked in the Richmond Post Office for 45 years, Harold D. McCraw, Sr.,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Since the plan to sell the Post Office was announced, Congressman DeSaulnier has been actively working to save the Post Office building, including by writing to the USPS urging them to reconsider, issuing public comment, and working with the Mayor and the City of Richmond to explore the purchase of the Post Office to keep it in public use. #
07.10.2018	Richmond, CA – Today, Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after the Contra Costa Sheriff’s Office announced it will cancel its contract with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to detain undocumented immigrants at the West County Detention Facility in Richmond. “Having called for the termination of the contract, I support the Board of Supervisors’ decision and look forward to working with them on making sure the concerns of the community and clients are addressed,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Following multiple and varying allegations of abuse by ICE agents at the West County Detention Facility, Congressman DeSaulnier called for the termination of the County’s ICE contract in March of this year, and he urged U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions and California Attorney General Xavier Becerra to conduct a third-party investigation of the West County Detention Facility. Contra Costa County is the only of the nine Bay Area counties that has a contract ICE. #
07.02.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier and Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee Elijah E. Cummings sent a letter requesting that Chairman Trey Gowdy issue a subpoena to compel the Department of Justice (DOJ) to produce documents it is withholding related to an internal 2006 report that Purdue Pharma knew of significant abuses of its drug OxyContin shortly after it was brought to market in 1996. “If this report is accurate, Purdue’s actions demonstrate a stunning disregard for human life and the law. While Purdue Pharma made billions of dollars from OxyContin, thousands of Americans succumbed to addiction and its consequences,” the Members wrote. The 120-page report, obtained by the New York Times, reportedly indicates that Purdue Pharma knew OxyContin was highly addictive, but the company concealed this information and vehemently denied that it had knowledge of the growing illicit use until years after it had been on the market. Despite this deception, Purdue’s top executives managed to effectively avoid any responsibility. According to the New York Times, the 2006 DOJ report recommended the indictment of “three of Purdue’s top executives…on felony charges, including conspiracy to defraud. However, the political appointees at the Department of Justice under then-President George W. Bush reportedly overturned the prosecutors’ recommendations,” the Members wrote. On June 12, 2018, DeSaulnier and Cummings sent a letter to DOJ requesting that it produce this report by June 25, 2018. DOJ did not respond to this request. A full copy of the letter to Chairman Gowdy can be found here.
06.28.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) received confirmation from the Department of Defense that Concord Naval Weapons Station is not currently being considered to house any facility to detain immigrants. “Currently, Concord Naval Weapons Station land is owned by the Department of Defense. In order to house any facility to detain immigrants, the Department of Defense would have to provide approval. I have received verbal confirmation from the Department of Defense that it has not been asked to host a detention facility at Concord Naval Weapons Station, at this time. We must continue to remain vigilant as the Trump Administration’s policies create the need for more detention centers. We will also be pushing the Navy to fulfill its obligation to transfer the weapons station to Concord effectively eliminating it as a future option. I am thankful to Concord and the community for their leadership and support in stopping this effort.” #
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to news that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security confirmed that it will not be moving forward with a detention center at the Concord Naval Weapons Station. “I am pleased the effort to turn Concord Naval Weapons Station into a detention facility has been halted. As we advised the Administration, the Concord Naval Weapons Station is an unsafe and inhabitable environment, and to propose housing almost 50,000 people there was both dangerous and immoral. We fought this proposal along with our local officials and dedicated community and will continue to fight against the inhumane and unjust policies proposed by this Administration. It is important not to let our guard down as one tweet can change things.” Congressman DeSaulnier voiced concerns to the Administration about creating a detention facility on Concord Naval Weapons Station and led an effort of California Members in asking for the release of a proposal identifying Concord Naval Weapons Station as a possible detention site. News of Concord making the list of proposed facilities first broke in Time Magazine and Congressman DeSaulnier immediately contacted local officials to work with them to fight this effort. He also held a Facebook town hall to answer questions from area residents. #
06.26.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), who represents the City of Concord, led a letter with Bay Area Members of Congress to United States Navy Secretary Richard Spencer calling on him to release the Navy’s proposal for detention facilities to house thousands of immigrants on land owned by the Department of Defense, including the Concord Naval Weapons Station in Northern California. Representatives Ami Bera (CA-07), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), John Garamendi (CA-03), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Doris O. Matsui (CA-06), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), and Mike Thompson (CA-05) all signed the letter. On Friday, Time Magazine received an internal U.S. Navy memo that listed Concord Naval Weapons Station as a possible location for an immigrant detention camp. “We are deeply troubled by the recent news stories suggesting that the United States Navy has put together a proposal to create tent camps for undocumented immigrants on Department of Defense-owned land, including at Concord Naval Weapons Station in Concord, California,” the Members wrote. “We are understandably concerned that such a drastic proposal is being considered without community input or notification. We call on you as Members of Congress to provide us with the report and we would appreciate the courtesy of a response to this request by June 28, 2018.” The full text of the letter can be found here. Representative DeSaulnier previously voiced concerns to Secretary Spencer on the impact of a detention facility including that “the proposed site for this tent city is hugely problematic and is currently both unsafe and inhabitable. It is adjacent to an Army ammunition and explosives depot, which has blast zones and other hazards. Portions of the base have been deemed not suitable because of their environmental hazards. There is no current sewer, power, or water infrastructure on the land to allow for any human habitation. Forcing anybody to live on this land right now is more than dangerous – it is immoral.” A copy of DeSaulnier’s letter can be found here. #
06.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host a Facebook Live Town Hall tomorrow, June 26th at 11:30 a.m. PST on immigration, the Trump Administration’s plan to house detained immigrants at the Concord Naval Weapons Station, and family separation. To submit questions in advance, visit our event page and write them in the comments section. Immigration Facebook Live Town Hall Tuesday, June 26, 2018 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. PST To participate please visit our Facebook page #
06.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that his bill to expand the John Muir National Historic Site in Martinez, California was signed into law. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act (H.R. 1719) adds an additional 44 acres of donated land to the 330 acre park to help improve access to the East Bay’s natural spaces and preserve the land for generations to come. Congressman DeSaulnier’s bill first passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 401-to-15, was then unanimously passed in the Senate, and was signed into law by the President. Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) authored the companion bill in the U.S. Senate. “Contra Costa’s own John Muir, the father of our National Parks, championed the revolutionary idea that America’s wild spaces ought to be preserved for all to enjoy. Through his writings and teachings, he helped to shape our appreciation of open spaces by reminding us to ‘keep close to Nature’s heart,’” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “It has been an honor to help expand the site where Muir lived and wrote. Providing residents with additional ways to explore the beauty of the East Bay seems to be a fitting tribute to the man who loved and valued our natural wonders.” "The expansion of the John Muir Historic Site will ensure that future generations of Californians and others will have the opportunity to continue to learn about his legacy as the father of the National Park Service," said Senator Harris. "John Muir's advocacy paved the path toward the protection of Yosemite and Sequoia as national parks, and Californians owe him a debt of gratitude so I’m pleased that this expansion will now move forward. Our public lands are rich with natural diversity, and are worthy of our protection and preservation.” “Permanently protecting the legacy of John Muir is very much a team effort. Mark DeSaulnier, Kamala Harris and Dianne Feinstein are the foundation of just such a partnership. Their dynamic leadership, passion and commitment, supported by a remarkably generous group of John Muir Land Trust supporters, will permanently protect this beautiful property for future local, national, and international generations to enjoy forever. John Muir Land Trust is excited, and honored to share in this wonderful achievement,” said Linus Eukel, Executive Director of John Muir Land Trust. “Passing the John Muir Historic Site Expansion in this Congress is a remarkable achievement by Congressman DeSaulnier. We now know that the historic and environmental integrity of the site will be preserved for future generations in our community and in our country. It recognizes the importance of John Muir to the creation of our public lands in California,” said former Congressman Miller. Currently, the John Muir National Historic Site spans 330 acres of Contra Costa County, and includes the home where Muir lived and wrote. The new, 44 acre parcel of land is being donated by the John Muir Land Trust, and is located on the south side of Mount Wanda. Since the parcel of land donated exceeds the size the National Park Service is permitted to acquire administratively, the transfer needed Congressional approval. The legislative effort to acquire the land was first introduced by former Congressman George Miller, who previously represented California’s 11th Congressional District. #
06.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) released a statement in response to news that the U.S. Navy is proposing to construct detention centers for immigrants in California including a camp for as many as 47,000 immigrants at the former Naval Weapons Station in Concord. “STOP! The Administration needs to take a time out. This is no way to effectuate intelligent immigration policy, including for those seeking asylum. This is absolute madness and I oppose it wholeheartedly. If the Administration wants to have a rational dialogue about fixing our immigration system, I am happy to do that, but making up immigration policy on the fly is just wrong. We will fight this in every way we can.” #
06.21.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Earlier this year, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) asked Contra Costa residents to vote on town hall topics, and environmental protection was at the top of the list. Today, Mark announced that he will host a town hall on “Protecting Our Environment” on Monday, July 2nd at 6:30 p.m. in Moraga. At a time when California recently experienced one of the driest periods on record, and as storms are intensifying, sea levels are rising, and precipitation patterns are shifting, this town hall will explore the role government plays in protecting our environment. During the town hall, Congressman DeSaulnier will discuss the major environmental laws that protect our air, water, wildlife, and open spaces, and constituents will have the opportunity to ask questions and share thoughts on this important issue. Protecting Our Environment Town Hall Monday, July 2, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Campolindo High School Multi-Purpose Room 300 Moraga Road Moraga, CA 94556Doors Open at 6:00 p.m. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. To RSVP, visit https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. For ADA accommodations, translation services, or more information contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
06.20.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after President Trump signed an Executive Order regarding family separations at the border. “The fact that President Trump used children as a bargaining chip and threw them in jail, while lying and saying he could do nothing about it, is the purest form of evil. After reversing course and apparently miraculously receiving the power to make the change, he spat in the face of those same families and chose a different form of punishment – detaining families for even longer periods of time. After fleeing violence and unspeakable conditions, traveling thousands of miles through torturous circumstances, waiting at and being denied at ports of entry in excruciating weather conditions, and leaving everything they know behind, the President finds it fitting to punish these families further. If they had other options, they would not be coming to the United States.” #
06.14.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA), the only pharmacist in Congress, announced that their bipartisan legislation, the Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act (H.R. 4275), which would help curb fraudulent prescriptions of opioids, unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives. While the proper prescribing of controlled substances is the responsibility of the prescribing practitioner, pharmacists have a “corresponding responsibility” to ensure that controlled substances are only dispensed pursuant to a valid prescription issued for a legitimate medical purpose by a licensed prescribing practitioner. H.R. 4275 would require the Department of Health and Human Services and the Drug Enforcement Administration to produce and disseminate materials for pharmacists and health care professionals that provide guidance on when and how to refuse to fill a prescription that the pharmacist believes to be fraudulent. The bill is supported by the National Community Pharmacists Association (NCPA). “With the opioid prescribing rate increasing by 56 percent over the last 20 years the risk of forged, fraudulent, or altered prescriptions is greater than ever before. We must empower pharmacists—who often serve as the last line of defense in the fight against prescription drug abuse—to exercise their right to deny suspected fraudulent prescriptions. By doing so, we can help prevent these often deadly drugs from ending up in the wrong hands,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I thank Congressman Carter and the NCPA for their partnership and expertise on this issue, and am pleased that our colleagues on both sides of the aisle saw the need for this important bill to help combat this epidemic.” “As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I know firsthand that in many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing,” said Congressman Carter. “I am very glad this commonsense legislation was unanimously approved in the House yesterday to ensure pharmacists and health care professionals have the tools they need when faced with this situation. I am proud to lead this effort with my colleague Representative DeSaulnier and I am glad this bipartisan legislation is another step closer to becoming law as we continue our bipartisan fight to end this crisis facing our nation.” A copy of the bill can be found here. A clip of the floor proceedings and passage of the bill can be found here. #
06.12.2018	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07) called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to produce a copy of a 2006 Department of Justice (DOJ) report concluding that Purdue Pharma, the company often linked with the genesis of the opioid epidemic, knew of significant abuses of its drug OxyContin shortly after it was brought to market in 1996. “If this report is accurate, Purdue’s actions demonstrate a stunning disregard for human life and the law. While Purdue Pharma made billions of dollars from OxyContin, thousands of Americans succumbed to addiction and its consequences,” the Members wrote. The 120-page report, obtained by the New York Times, indicates that federal investigators found that Purdue Pharma continued to market OxyContin as less addictive despite knowledge that the highly addictive nature of the drug had led to largescale abuses. At the time, federal prosecutors recommended that three top executives be indicted on felony charges, but the Bush Administration settled the case instead. Purdue Pharma has long maintained that it did not learn of the widespread abuse of OxyContin until early 2000, but the DOJ report shows that Purdue Pharma knew of abuses years earlier but concealed that information. “The United States is facing the greatest health crisis in decades. Millions of Americans are in the grip of drug addiction due in part to the aggressive over-prescribing of opioids like OxyContin for even minor injuries. For years, Purdue Pharma has vehemently denied that it had any knowledge of the growing illicit use of OxyContin until years after it had been on the market,” the Members wrote.A full copy of the letter can be found here. #
06.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Democratic Members of the U.S. House Education and the Workforce Committee, Representative Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Ranking Member of the Workforce Protections Subcommittee Mark Takano (CA-41), and Committee Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03) called on Republican Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (NC-05) to convene a hearing and markup for the Offshore Oil and Gas Worker Whistleblower Protection Act (H.R. 4304). H.R. 4304, authored by DeSaulnier, would extend whistleblower protections to employees working on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) performing oil and gas exploration, drilling, production, or oil spill cleanup, who currently have no protections. The call comes eight years after the blast on the Deep Water Horizon drilling rig, which resulted in 11 deaths and seriously injured 17 others – a catastrophe that could have been avoided or lessened if a whistleblower had been empowered to come forward. “As an inherently dangerous work location and line of work generally, these workers are exposed to threats daily that they are uniquely qualified to identify,” wrote the Members. “The recommendation to the U.S. Department of the Interior in the report following the Deepwater Horizon explosion made it clear that whistleblower protections were essential for the future safety of workers on the Outer Continental Shelf.” According to the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), more than 1,400 injuries, 13 fatalities, and 324 evacuations or musters occurred from Fiscal Years 2011 through 2016. In February 2018, the Chemical Safety Board (CSB), the only federal agency charged with investigating industrial chemical accidents, urged the Education and Workforce Committee in a letter to consider “enacting legislation to provide clear and unambiguous authority for a Federal agency to take appropriate actions to discourage adverse action against employees who take safety actions and to establish a means of redress for employees who suffer retaliation as a result.” The letter also indicated that H.R. 4304 would make the necessary changes. “America’s workers in the Outer Continental Shelf deserve the same protections extended to others,” the Members concluded.A full text of the letter can be found here. #
06.08.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) successfully secured funding for the maintenance and repair of existing fish screen equipment located in the Sacramento – San Joaquin Delta in the House Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2019 (H.R. 5895). By improving fish screens in the Bay-Delta Watershed, migrating fish, including the endangered species of Chinook salmon, steelhead, and Delta Smelt, will be better protected from being drawn into water supply systems. H.R. 5895 passed in the U.S. House of Representative by a vote of 235-to-179. “Maintaining and repairing our local water infrastructure is essential to protecting the ecosystems in the Delta. Fish screens help reduce the impact of our water supply systems on wildlife, especially the endangered species that migrate through the Delta,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “In addition, to allow for necessary safety improvements and to help revitalize land for recreation and development, ownership of the Contra Costa Canal should be transferred from the federal government to the Contra Costa Water District.” To assist with canal improvements, Congressman DeSaulnier introduced the Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act (H.R. 6040), which would transfer the title of the Contra Costa canal system from the Bureau of Reclamation to the Contra Costa Water District (CCWD) to allow for the CCWD to make necessary safety improvements to the canal. Since the Contra Costa Canal has been operational, 81 people have drowned in the canal. The 48-mile canal system is currently exposed, but following the transfer CCWD will work to enclose it in a surface tunnel. H.R. 6040 would help prevent these accidents improve recreation and land use in and around the canal system by revitalizing land located in the Concord Naval Weapons Station. “The canal system has reliably served the people and businesses of our community for 80 years,” said Lisa Borba, Board President of Contra Costa Water District. “We appreciate the leadership from Senator Feinstein, Senator Harris and Congressman DeSaulnier to help us gain ownership of a system we can modernize to serve our customers for the next century.” Congressman DeSaulnier was joined in introducing the Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act with Representatives Mike Thompson (CA-05) and Jerry McNerney (CA-09). Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senators Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris. The bill also has the support of the East Bay Regional Parks District. #
06.06.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host a town hall meeting at the Danville Community Center on Monday, June 11th at 6:30 p.m. This will be Congressman DeSaulnier’s 65th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress in January 2015. During the town hall, Congressman DeSaulnier will provide a legislative update on what is happening in Washington, take questions from constituents, and discuss the services his office can provide. Danville Town Hall Monday, June 11, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Danville Community Center 420 Front Street Danville, CA 94526Doors Open at 6:00 p.m. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
06.06.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the below statement following the outcome of Regional Measure 3 (RM3). “Bay Area traffic is a serious challenge to our economy and quality of life, and the passage of Regional Measure 3 shows just how desperate commuters are for solutions. RM3 is a missed opportunity to provide significant, timely relief to toll-payers who will now be paying hundreds of dollars more per year in bridge tolls. The commuters who pay the tolls on the most congested corridors in the region, such as I-80, need immediate relief in the form of a new transit and vehicle Bay crossing,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Regional Measure 3 would increase tolls by $3 on the Bay Area’s seven state-owned bridges, which will reach as much as $9, to raise funds for projects primarily outside of Contra Costa County. Congressman DeSaulnier has been working on solutions to address the issue of long commute times and traffic congestion, and recently called on U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Chao to provide more federal investment for urban and suburban regions such as the Bay Area. “While I am skeptical about what RM3 will deliver, my hope now is that our local and regional officials adhere to high standards of accountability and transparency. If the 35 projects included in RM3 are not completed on time and on budget the public deserves timely and honest information about delays and cost overruns, something I have worked to promote throughout my career and in Congress,” concluded Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier previously chaired the California Senate Transportation Committee, and was the first freshman in history to chair the Assembly Transportation Committee. He now serves on the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in Congress. #
06.01.2018	Caption: Congressman DeSaulnier with the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for California's 11th Congressional District winning artwork by Mindy Lou of Camplindo High School. Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that Campolindo High School freshman, Mindy Lou, is the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for California’s 11th Congressional District. Her acrylic painting entitled “Love and Pride” has arrived in Washington, DC and will be displayed in the United States Capitol. The Congressional Art Competition is a juried art show open to all high school students who are residents of California’s 11th Congressional District. “Congratulations to our 2018 Congressional Art Competition winner, Mindy Lou of Campolindo High School, for her moving piece ‘Love and Pride.’ I look forward to seeing it displayed in the U.S. Capitol, and hope that its message of inclusion and acceptance resonates with all who view it—Members and visitors alike,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I also applaud each of the students who participated and shared their talent, ingenuity, and creativity.” The runners-up were Asal Bastani’s piece entitled “Sombol” from Concord High School and Amari Zhang’s piece entitled “Better with Jazz” from Campolindo High School. In total, 42 works of art were submitted from seven different high schools throughout California’s 11th Congressional District. The awards ceremony was held at Congressman DeSaulnier’s Walnut Creek district office and the winning pieces were selected by the following judges: Michelle Krup, DVC Art and Photography Department Instructor Rebecca Talley, Adjunct Professor Fine Arts & Graphic Communications John Finger, Finger Art & Design, Artist and Gallery Owner The winning piece from the 11th Congressional District, along with winning artwork from all 50 states, will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for the next year. This summer, the winner and a guest are invited to Washington, DC for a national reception honoring winners from across the country. Since 1982, over 650,000 high school students from around the nation have participated in the Congressional Art Competition, which has allowed Members of Congress to acknowledge the artistic talents of their young constituents. #
05.31.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced the Protecting Student Athletes From Concussions Act (H.R. 3580) to help schools implement concussion response strategies to safeguard the health of student athletes. According to figures from the National Federation of State High School Associations, an estimated 140,000 students playing high school sports suffer concussions every year, though many go unreported. H.R. 3580 would establish nationwide standards on concussion safety, and would encourage schools to develop practices that exceed national standards by taking a holistic approach to preventing, detecting, and treating concussions. DeSaulnier unveiled the legislation today at a Student Concussion Prevention Event held at Ygnacio Valley High School with special guests: Dennis Brown, Former Defensive End for the San Francisco 49ers, Akili Calhoun, Former Defensive Tackle for the Oakland Raiders, and Moussa Yazbeck, MD, Neurointensivist for John Muir Health. “Young athletes, whose brains are still developing are especially vulnerable to concussions,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Each year as many as 1.9 million sports-related concussions occur in children under the age of 18. If these concussions go untreated, research shows that these injuries can not only affect students’ ability to compete in sports, but can also negatively impact their academic performance and mental health. By better educating students, parents, and school personnel about how to recognize and respond to these head injuries, we can better protect the health of our student athletes both on and off the field.” “In football, when I was growing up, the perception was the toughest players were the best. When you took a hard it, we called it ‘getting your bell rung,’ and after one of the first hard hits I took my coach told me if you are seeing three then aim for the guy in the middle. At that time, that was where education about concussions stopped,” said Dennis Brown, Former Defensive End for the San Francisco 49ers. “What I am most proud of in this bill is the education component. The players, coaching staff, parents, and faculty need to know when to spot a concussion and how to properly treat it.” “With all of us coming together to raise awareness and learn about concussion prevention, it makes me think more deeply about it,” said Akili Calhoun, Former Defensive Tackle for the Oakland Raiders. “Listening to the doctors today makes us all more aware of the things that are happening when we are out on the field.” “Concussion is an epidemic, there is 3.8 million concussions annually in the United States. While we have made progress in recognizing and treating concussions, we still have a long way to go. I am glad to see that Congressman DeSaulnier is raising this issue in Congress, and I hope this bill passes for the sake of our students’ health,” said Moussa Yazbeck, MD, Neurointensivist for John Muir Health. The Protecting Student Athletes From Concussions Act would help address this problem by bringing all states into compliance with evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of sports concussions. It would also require states that receive federal education funding to form concussion management teams, develop concussion guidelines for educating students, and establish policies to protect students suspected of sustaining a concussion from subsequent injury. The bill further focuses on academic recovery, which is a vital component for young students that is often overlooked in concussion planning. Congressman DeSaulnier previously introduced this legislation in the 114th Congress. As part of this effort, he also secured opportunities for funding for schools to develop comprehensive concussions prevention and treatment plans in the bipartisan Every Student Succeeds Act (PL 114-95). The legislation is supported the American Academy of Neurology (AAN), National Athletic Trainers’ Association (NATA), National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), National Council of Youth Sports (NCYS), National Disability Rights Network (NDRN), National Football League (NFL), National Interscholastic Athletic Administrators Association (NIAAA), National Parent Teacher Association (National PTA), Pop Warner Little Scholars, Inc. (PWLS), USA Federation for Sport Cheering (USA Cheer), US Lacrosse. #
05.25.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host a “Concussion Prevention for Student Athletes” event at Ygnacio Valley High School on Thursday, May 31st. The event will help educate students and parents on the dangers of concussions to student athletes and will offer suggestions and best practices for prevention. During the event, Congressman DeSaulnier will unveil his Protecting Student Athletes from Concussions Act (H.R. 3580) which would establish nationwide standards for schools on concussion safety and bring all states in compliance with evidence-based guidelines for treatment of concussions. With as many as 3.8 million sports and recreation-related concussions occurring in the United States each year and an estimated 140,000 high school athletes suffering from a concussion annually, this is a timely and important discussion aimed at helping students and schools establish a “when in doubt, sit it out” policy. Research shows that when concussion go untreated, these injuries can not only affect students’ ability to compete in sports, but can also be detrimental to their academic performance and mental health. Congressman DeSaulnier Hosts Concussion Prevention Event for Student Athletes Thursday, May 31, 2018 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Ygnacio Valley High School 755 Oak Grove Road Concord, CA 94518 Special Guests and Former NFL Players: Dennis Brown, Former Defensive End San Francisco 49ers Akili Calhoun, Former Defensive Tackle for the Oakland Raiders Format: The event will feature brief remarks from the Congressman and NFL Players, followed a Q&A session with the Congressman, players, and attendees. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. #
05.24.2018	Washington, DC — Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) successfully included three key provisions in a bill to reauthorize the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP). The bill passed unanimously out of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and is expected to be on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives for a vote by mid-June. “We are currently in the midst of the worst public health crisis in the past three decades—whole communities and families have been devastated by the effects of opioids, and over two million Americans are in the grips of opioid addiction,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Combatting the opioid epidemic begins with a strong and coordinated effort by the federal government. I am pleased to have worked in a bipartisan fashion to include measures to help reduce doctor shopping, ensure our national drug policies are rooted in fact, and require necessary audits of the program charged with setting and carrying out the federal response to the opioid crisis.” Two of DeSaulnier’s proposals were included in the final draft of the bill. These proposals would: Reduce doctor shopping by facilitating the sharing of information between state and federal prescription drug monitoring programs (PDMPs) to ensure that they are all interoperable. Promote evidence-based research by charging the Director of the ONDCP to work with the President to establish national drug policies, goals, objectives, and priorities that are based on evidence and data, and not political opinion. A third measure offered by DeSaulnier was unanimously accepted as an amendment to the bill during the committee proceedings. The amendment would: Require periodic audits of the ONDCP and its programs by the independent, nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) to ensure that ONDCP is effectively carrying out its responsibilities to combat drug abuse through coordinated federal efforts. In addition, today Congressman DeSaulnier and Oversight Committee Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings sent a letter asking GAO to launch an additional investigation into the failure of President Trump to submit a National Drug Control Strategy during his entire term as President. The letter also asks GAO to investigate the impact of having no confirmed ONDCP Director for the past 16 months, and whether the agency is complying with requirements to certify that the President’s budget requests are adequate to achieve ONDCP’s overall goals of the Strategy. #
05.23.2018	Walnut Creek, CA — Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will continue his longtime practice of meeting one-on-one with constituents by hosting District Office Hours on Tuesday, May 29th at 5:30 p.m. in his Walnut Creek District Office. The Congressman’s Walnut Creek office is located at 3100 Oak Road, Suite 110. Since coming to Congress in January 2015, Congressman DeSaulnier has hosted 63 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. During the office hours, Congressman DeSaulnier will be available to share thoughts and answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, immigration, or other federal agencies In order to accommodate the increased demand for one-on-one meetings in the current political climate, and to meet with as many constituents as possible, Congressman DeSaulnier asks that constituents sign up for an appointment. Space is limited, and appointments will be confirmed in the order they are received. Walnut Creek District Office Hours Tuesday, May 29, 2018 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. DeSaulnier’s Walnut Creek Office 3100 Oak Road, Suite #110 Walnut Creek, CA 94597 To confirm attendance, constituents may RSVP online, and a member of Congressman DeSaulnier’s staff will be in touch to confirm appointments. For more information or if you need assistance with requesting a time, please contact our Walnut Creek office at 925-933-2660. #
05.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) called on U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Elaine Chao to reconsider the department’s move to reduce federal investment in urban and suburban areas. DOT recently announced that it plans to award a greater share of federal grants under the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program to projects located in rural areas as opposed to those in urban and suburban areas. This shift is already reflected in DOT’s latest round of TIGER grants awarded in March of this year. “At a time when so many workers in our metropolitan regions are suffering from intolerably long commutes, these drastic measures to cut them off from federal investment seem especially punitive and politically-calculated. Without a more thorough explanation of your intentions behind the sudden change in TIGER grants, the Administration’s ‘commitment to supporting the country’s rural communities’ runs the risk of punishing workers in outlying areas of metropolitan regions—areas that are traditionally rural, but are now the communities providing housing for workers employed in urban-center jobs,” DeSaulnier wrote to Chao. In FY2017, only 4% of TIGER funding went to transit projects in urban areas, whereas in the previous three fiscal years, transit in urban areas received more than 20% of funding. In each of the 8 years from FY2009 to FY2016, California, representing an eighth of the U.S. population and a seventh of the U.S. GDP, received between 6.9% and 10.1% of the TIGER grants awarded. In FY2017, California’s share dropped to 1.8%. “This abrupt change suggests that the Administration is formulating policy with an intent to reward certain rural regions and punish urban centers based on political factors,” DeSaulnier wrote. Housing shortages in the Bay Area have pushed people out of the region in search of affordability and have driven up the numbers of commuters traveling 90 minutes or more to get to work. In the San Francisco metro area, including the East Bay, super commutes have more than doubled since 2005. The full text of the letter can be found here. #
05.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, following a meeting between President Trump and leading automaker executives, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) was joined by Democratic Representatives Karen Bass (CA-37), André Carson (IN-07), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), and Peter Welch (VT-At Large) in calling on automobile manufacturers to provide a detailed explanation of their plans for how they will respond to the Trump Administration’s proposed rollback of Obama-era fuel efficiency standards. The letter also follows recent reports that the Trump Administration plans to double down on fighting California’s regulations in federal courts. “We are writing to request information on your plans and intentions in light of the Trump Administration’s moves to substantially weaken the motor vehicle standards for emissions and fuel economy currently in place,” wrote the Members. “These standards are not only appropriate and achievable, but are also necessary for progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and fossil fuel consumption as well as for driving innovation and job growth. At the same time, the Administration’s backward-looking policies are an attack on jobs, innovation, and public health.” The Members, who sent letters to BMW Group, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford Motor Company, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Kia, Mercedes-Benz, Nissan, Toyota, and Volkswagen, asked that each company answer the following questions: “To what extent are you committed to existing federal standards, regardless of the Administration’s moves to weaken them?” “Are you encouraging the Administration to weaken standards, either through meeting or direct communication with government officials or through the communications of advocacy groups such as the Auto Alliance or Global Automakers?” “What are the specific requirements and targets that you would like to see adjusted, on a model-year basis, with the goal of making continued progress towards lower emissions and greater fuel efficiency?” Federal fuel efficiency standards established by the Obama Administration were inspired by standards set by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and designed so that automakers who met the new federal standards would be deemed to be in compliance with CARB’s. The CARB standards have since been adopted by 12 other states, accounting for one-third of the U.S. auto market. Since the Trump Administration announced its intent to roll back current fuel standards, Congressman DeSaulnier has called for a national boycott of any company that does not commit to maintaining the Obama or CARB standards. He has also called on California’s public retirement funds to divest from companies that participate in the rollback of environmental standards, and later led a group of Democratic Members of the California Delegation in echoing his call to divest. In October of 2017, DeSaulnier sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Secretary Scott Pruitt to maintain and strengthen current standards. DeSaulnier served on CARB for 10 years, was Chair of California transportation committees in the Assembly and Senate, and is currently a member of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. A full copy of today’s letter to auto executives can be found here. #
05.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) announced that their bipartisan legislation to help inform patients, doctors, and pharmacists on prescription drug dispensing was passed out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and is expected to be considered on the floor in the coming weeks. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act (H.R. 4275) would require federal agencies to develop and distribute materials to better educate pharmacists on when they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. “Over the past 20 years the opioid prescribing rate has increased by 56 percent, or enough to provide nearly every adult in America with a bottle of pills. With such a high volume of prescriptions being written, there is a very serious and increased risk that prescriptions can be forged, fraudulent, or altered. Addressing the opioid epidemic requires attacking it from all angles,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “As our bill heads to the floor for a vote, I hope my colleagues from both sides of the aisle will join Representative Carter and I in supporting this critical legislation to combat fraudulent prescriptions.” “As a pharmacist for more than 30 years, I know firsthand that in many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing,” said Congressman Carter. “Now more than ever we need commonsense legislation like this to ensure pharmacists and health care professionals have the tools they need when faced with this situation. I am proud to lead this effort with my colleague Representative DeSaulnier and I am glad this legislation is headed to the House Floor for consideration as we continue our bipartisan fight to end this crisis facing our nation.” H.R. 4275 is supported by the National Community Pharmacists Association. A copy of the bill can be found here. #
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after President Trump announced that the United States will withdraw from the Iran nuclear agreement. “The Iran nuclear agreement is working. Since the United States joined other world leaders in 2015 to enact an unprecedented agreement to curtail Iran’s nuclear power, Iran went from being able to build a nuclear weapon in two months to now being delayed to a year. This irresponsible decision by President Trump to withdraw from the agreement is harmful to the United States, our allies, and the international community. At a time when tensions are high in the Middle East and smart diplomacy is critical to preventing conflict, withdrawal could embolden Iran as a greater threat in the region, will erode American credibility on the international stage, and will isolate us from other world leaders who are remaining in the deal.” #
04.27.2018	Washington, DC — Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4, a bill that reauthorizes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for five years, continues investments in airports, and makes necessary safety reforms, by a vote of 393-to-13. Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, fought for and included several critical safety measures to help prevent runway accidents. The U.S. has seen an alarming 83 percent increase in runway incursions between 2011 and 2017 as well as a series of near misses. The occurrence of close calls and runway incursions, including three incidents at SFO, prompted Congressman DeSaulnier to work over the last nine months with multiple stakeholders, experts, and the FAA and National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) to gather information and develop recommendations on how to prevent accidents. “As a frequent flyer, I am proud that we have an exceptional aviation safety record, but we must stay vigilant and proactive in addressing safety concerns. Recent high-profile near-miss incidents across the country—including in our backyard at SFO—have brought new safety concerns to light,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “I am pleased that my amendments to update critical safety practices were included in the final FAA bill. This is a good first start, and I am working on legislation to further enhance safety. Rather than wait for a catastrophic accident, we must learn as much as possible from safety incidents and take action to protect the flying public.” DeSaulnier’s amendments included in H.R. 4 would improve the use of technology and data to support the work of pilots, air traffic controllers, and FAA safety inspectors to ensure safe airport landings through: Better Alerts to Air Traffic Controllers: Requiring the FAA to review ways to expand and improve the use of technology that can alert air traffic controllers when an airplane is improperly aligned before landing. Following the July 7th Air Canada incident, SFO’s air traffic control made changes to its use of this equipment, and this change should be explored at other airports as well. Audible Notifications to Pilots: Assessing the benefits of equipping all aircraft with systems that provide an audible alert to pilots, notifying them of their alignments as they are nearing a runway. Reducing Risks Associated with Power Outages: Protecting key systems, such as communication, navigation, and surveillance systems, from disruption caused by a power outage or other similar unforeseen circumstances. The December 29, 2017 the Horizon Air taxiway landing at Pullman-Moscow airport was likely compounded by a power outage that caused the runway lights to fail, and the status of runway lights at SFO on the night of July 7 may have added to the confusion of the Air Canada pilots Improving Data Analysis for Safety: Improving the use of data for identifying safety issues and recommending action before accidents occur. In addition to the above safety measures, Congressman DeSaulnier also successfully included a measure in the bill to improve ground transportation:​ Make Travel to and around Airports More Efficient: Requires a study of ground transportation options, including the impact of ride hailing services, at our nation’s 10 busiest airports to help make travel easier and more efficient for passengers. In February, DeSaulnier led a request with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA) for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review data on safety incidents and FAA’s framework for responding to them. In December 2017, DeSaulnier called on Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) to hold a hearing on improving aviation safety. The Committee responded by holding a hearing titled “The State of Aviation Safety” on February 27, 2018. #
04.25.2018	Washington, DC – In response to calls by Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) for the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS), the nation’s largest public retirement fund, to divest from any automobile manufacturer that abandons California’s fuel economy standards, CalPERS said it would engage its “portfolio companies to adopt responsible fuel economy and emissions standards.” Today, Congressman DeSaulnier pushed CalPERS to lay out its long-term strategy for ensuring that the companies it invests in continue to meet California’s fuel economy standards. “I am pleased that CalPERS is committed to engaging its portfolio companies on emission standards, and that it recognizes that the Trump Administration’s policies are contrary to California and CalPERS’s values of sustainability and innovation. Engagement is a good first step, and we look forward to hearing the outcome of these efforts. If engagement is not successful, divestment ought to be the next logical action,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. A full copy of the letter can be found here. #
04.24.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) was joined by Representatives Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Mike Thompson (CA-05) in calling on the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) to divest from any automobile manufacturer that fails to meet emissions standards established by the California Air Resources Board (CARB). “The Trump Administration has recently announced its intention to roll back federal fuel economy standards, a decision that is misguided and runs counter to the clear benefits that high fuel economy standards have provide,” the Members wrote. “This shortsighted move undermines the progress that California has made while leading in vehicle technology innovation, economic competitiveness, air quality, and public health.” “We understand that CalPERS has worked to establish guidelines and principles for investing in groups that value social responsibility and sustainability goals. We applaud these efforts, and submit that the Trump Administration’s planned rollback of fuel economy and emissions standards represents a clear violation of the environmental and social goals you have espoused and it violates California’s aspirations for continued innovation and protection from the harmful impacts of climate change,” the Members concluded. California’s fuel efficiency standards preceded the Obama Administration rules, and helped motivate the federal government in protecting public health. California’s standards, which have now been adopted by 12 other states, represent one-third of the U.S. auto market, promote public health and protect public health.The full text of the letter can be found here. Marcie Frost Chief Executive Officer California Public Employees’ Retirement System Lincoln Plaza North 400 Q Street Sacramento, CA 95811 Dear Ms. Frost: As you are aware, the Trump Administration has recently announced its intention to roll back federal fuel economy standards, a decision that is misguided and runs counter to the clear benefits that high fuel economy standards have provided. This shortsighted move undermines the progress that California has made while leading in vehicle technology innovation, economic competitiveness, air quality, and public health. We write to you today to urge the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) to divest from any automobile manufacturer that produces cars that fail to meet the emissions standards adopted first by California and then adopted by a dozen other states that have followed California’s lead. Rather than maintain stringent, but reasonable standards for fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles, the Trump Administration has taken a stance that punishes innovators—the automakers who have answered the global call for standards that promote clean air and public health, drive down our consumption of oil, reduce costs for American consumers, and keep us competitive in the global marketplace. We have seen the consequences of allowing automakers to fulfill their impulses for temporary, short-term profits, and American taxpayers and those in pension funds deserve better than another, multi-billion-dollar bailout of an industry that refuses to learn the lesson of the last financial crisis. We understand that CalPERS has worked to establish guidelines and principles for investing in groups that value social responsibility and sustainability goals. We applaud these efforts, and submit that the Trump Administration’s planned rollback of fuel economy and emissions standards represents a clear violation of the environmental and social goals you have espoused and it violates California’s aspirations for continued innovation and protection from the harmful impacts of climate change. Should auto manufacturers in California begin to decrease their commitment to fuel economy standards in response to the Trump Administration rollbacks, these companies will no longer be operating in the best interest of Californians. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. #
04.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement that the United States will carry out strikes in Syria in response to a chemical weapons attack brought by Assad's regime on Syrian civilians. “The military situation in Syria is incredibly complex, but Assad's heinous use of chemical agents on Syria's civilian population must be met with a strong response. I am grateful that we are partnering with our French and British allies as we carry out these attacks." #
04.09.2018	Washington, DC – Following calls by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) for an additional San Francisco Bay crossing, Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) Executive Director Steve Heminger advised the Members that MTC will move forward with a study of a new “Southern Crossing.” In a letter dated March 27th Heminger described expectations for continuing growth in the region and wrote to the Members, “Based on these projections, MTC and our partners agree with the necessity to plan for a second Bay crossing.” The Members responded to Heminger in a letter released today stating: “We are pleased that you share our view about the need to plan for a new San Francisco Bay crossing and that the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) will undertake a study of this concept. We hope that the MTC acts with urgency, and that, as part of its analysis, provides a detailed timeline of the study process, examines a scenario in which no new crossing is constructed, and considers technological innovation and multiple modes of transportation.” An additional crossing would help reduce traffic through San Francisco and the East Bay, where the traffic patterns during the afternoon commute are the heaviest in the region. By MTC’s own analysis, the most congested freeway segments in the Bay Area are commutes northbound and eastbound on U.S. 101 and Interstate 80 from the I-280 interchange in San Francisco to the Bay Bridge’s Yerba Buena Island Tunnel. The next most congested route is the westbound direction on I-80, through the Bay Bridge, to Fremont Street. Feinstein and DeSaulnier believe a “Southern Crossing” would do more than any other project to alleviate congestion in the region, resulting in moving people and goods more efficiently, harnessing the region’s culture of innovation, and helping to maintain the quality of life that draws people and companies to the Bay Area. A copy of the Member’s December 6th letter can be found here. A copy of Heminger’s letter can be found here. A copy of the Member’s response, released today, can be found here. #
04.06.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) called for the removal of United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt. “Administrator Pruitt’s anti-environment, anti-public health, and pro-corporation decisions prove that he is not fit to be EPA Administrator. Given his abysmal performance, flagrant abuse of power, and ethics violations, I am calling for his removal. I am joined by over 60 colleagues and close to a thousand constituents in our conviction that he is not fit for the post, and immediate action should be taken.” Congressman DeSaulnier has sent numerous letters to Administrator Pruitt expressing concern for Pruitt's policy positions and rollbacks of environmental regulations, and today signed a letter to President Trump calling for his removal. #
04.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) heightened his call for a national boycott of any vehicle company that fails to meet the standards established by the California Air Resources Board (CARB), which preceeded Obama Administration rules, on greenhouse gas and fuel efficiency, and urged the California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS), the California State Teachers’ Retirement System (CalSTRS), and other California public retirement funds to divest from any car company that participates in a roll back of environmental standards. The call comes in response to the Trump Administration’s announcement that it will undermine Obama Administration standards on vehicle efficiency. “Our current fuel economy standards are on track to reduce America’s oil dependence by more than 2 million barrels a day, save $1.7 trillion in fuel costs, and effectively eliminate the impact of 59 million vehicles from the road by 2030. Rolling back these environmental standards will be devastating to our environment and our public health. In addition to a national boycott, I am calling on CalPERS, CalSTRS, and other public retirement funds, which invest billions of dollars and should be upholding social responsibility and sustainability goals when building retirement security for public employees, to divest from any car company that takes advantage of the Trump Administration’s vehicle emissions roll back,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. As the nation’s leading agency in establishing standards for greenhouse gas emissions for motor vehicles, CARB is protecting the public from the harmful effects of air pollution and is fighting climate change. It, as well as the Obama Administration, has shown that environmental standards and car companies can co-exist. In fact, California and the 12 states that follow its higher standards account for one-third of the U.S. auto market. On October 5, 2017, DeSaulnier sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Secretary Scott Pruitt to maintain and strengthen current standards. This past Friday, DeSaulnier called for a national boycott of any company that fails to meet the environmental standards set by CARB or the EPA and NHTSA under the Obama Administration. DeSaulnier, who served 10 years on the CARB, chaired both transportation committees in the state legislature, and is a current member of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, has seen the impact of these laws on our health, our environment, and the safety of future generations. An example of the letters DeSaulnier sent to the public pension funds can be found here. #
03.30.2018	Washington, D.C. – In response to news that the Trump Administration plans to undermine Obama Administration standards on vehicle efficiency regulations to address global warming, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) called for a boycott of any vehicle company that fails to meet California standards, which surpass Obama Administration rules, on greenhouse gas and fuel efficiency. "I am calling for a large-scale boycott by consumers, public and private users, and pension investments of any vehicle manufacturer that fails to fulfill existing California greenhouse gas and fuel efficiency standards. Having served 10 years on the California Air Resources Board (CARB), chaired both transportation committees in the state legislature, and as a current member of the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I have seen the impact of these laws on our health, our environment, and the safety of future generations. We need a coordinated effort to fight the Trump Administration and ensure we move forward, not backwards, on green technologies that will benefit our citizens, our economy, and the health of our planet," said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
03.30.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and John Larson (CT-01) will host a joint town hall at the San Pablo Senior Center on Wednesday, April 4th at 10:30 a.m. focused on enhancing the benefits earned through Social Security. Representatives DeSaulnier and Larson recently introduced the Social Security 2100 Act (H.R. 1902) with over 170 of their colleagues; it will increase benefits, give millions of seniors a tax cut, and extend the solvency of the program. This town hall will be an opportunity for the public to learn more about the legislation and ask any questions. Social Security Town Hall with Congressman Larson (CT-01) Wednesday, April 4, 2018 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. San Pablo Senior Center 1943 Church Lane San Pablo, CA 94806 This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information contact Representative DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
03.28.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman DeSaulnier announced that he secured an additional $15 million in federal funding for University Transportation Centers (UTCs) in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 (H.R. 1625), which passed the House and was signed into law. The UTC grant program awards universities across the country with funding to conduct research and develop solutions to improve transportation, infrastructure, safety, and the environment. The program was originally funded at $77 million, and DeSaulnier’s effort brings total funding for the program to $92 million. “Traffic congestion in urban areas, like the Bay Area, has become much worse in recent years, and it presents a serious threat to our competitiveness, economic growth, and quality of life. We lose $160 billion of productivity annually due to congestion,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “We need the expertise and creativity of our academic institutions to help us tackle this and other transportation challenges. I am glad the increased funding for the University Transportation Centers program will keep them engaged in developing solutions for moving people and goods efficiently and effectively.” The package also includes $100 million in federal funding for research and testing of autonomous vehicles including trucks, buses, ridesharing, and related technologies. This amount includes Congressman DeSaulnier’s request for increased funding to support autonomous vehicle testing facilities, like the GoMentum Station in Concord, California, which is one of 10 such federally-designated testing sites. “The Contra Costa Transportation Authority greatly appreciates the work of Representative DeSaulnier to secure funding for highly automated vehicle technologies,” said its Executive Director Randy Iwasaki. “This appropriation provides an opportunity for investment in the future of Contra Costa. With improvements to the GoMentum Station test facility, we’ll be able to attract more companies who want to test their vehicles in a controlled environment, and help to safely advance research on the next generation of transportation.” DeSaulnier was also instrumental in including the following funding in the Omnibus spending bill: Chemical Safety Board: Helped protect the Chemical Safety Board (CSB) from President’s Trump’s efforts to eliminate it. The CSB is the only independent agency investigating chemical and refinery accidents to help protect workers, the public, and the environment from major chemical and refinery accidents and releases. Affordable Housing: Secured full funding for Section 4 Capacity Building for Community Development and Affordable Housing program, which boost the capacity of local nonprofits to build and maintain affordable housing. Mark also supported efforts to expand the Low Income Housing Tax Credit, which would generate approximately $250 million more annually for affordable housing in California, and was undermined by the Republican tax bill. Election Integrity: Spearheaded initiative to fund an assessment of the security of election cyber infrastructure in the United States, which helped lead to grants to protect digital voting systems from cyberattacks. Education: Led effort to fully fund Congressional Fellowships for teachers within the Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellowship Program through the Office of Science. The Office of Science received full funding, and now has the ability to maintain the program. #
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he successfully included $10 million in federal funding for the Statewide Family Engagement Centers (SFECs) grant program in the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 (H.R. 1625), which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 256-to-167. The SFECs grant program helps states and school districts promote family involvement in a student’s education. Congressman DeSaulnier was instrumental in the creation of the SFEC program, and now has secured the funding necessary to make these facilities a reality. This bipartisan effort was spearheaded along with Congressman Glen Thompson (R-PA). “Research is indisputable that students whose families are actively involved in their education are more likely to earn higher grades, graduate high school, and pursue higher education,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “While the role that teachers play in educating our students cannot be replaced, promoting family involvement helps solidify the gains made during the school day. SFEC grants will help communities connect families with specialized resources to strengthen that connection. As a longtime supporter of services that support students in and out of the classroom, I am pleased that family engagement centers have received the funding necessary to help students succeed.” Congressman DeSaulnier was recently presented the 2018 Congressional Voice for Children Award by the National Parent Teacher Association (PTA) for his work in developing the SFEC program. “For years, PTA members and families nationwide have been advocating for investments in the SFECs program because family engagement is critical to student success and school improvement efforts, including efforts to make our schools safer,” said Leslie Boggs, president-elect of National PTA. “We applaud Congressman DeSaulnier for acknowledging the importance of family engagement and for his commitment to the SFECs program to help ensure every child receives a high-quality education in an environment that is safe and reaches their full potential.” “Family engagement is the bridge that connects families and schools ensuring our children learn and prosper,” said Paula Goldberg, Executive Director, PACER Center. “We applaud Congressman DeSaulnier for his leadership on the Statewide Family Engagement program and his recognition of the power that family engagement has to transform the lives of parents, their children and their communities.” “We know that family engagement is critical for student success and it helps to provide a pathway for students to achieve greatness,” Rep. Thompson said. “With an ever-changing curriculum, it can sometimes even be hard for parents to engage meaningfully in their child’s school work. Family Engagement Centers bridge that gap and help to provide essential services to ensure students receive the attention they need to be successful. As a long-time supporter of the program, I am very pleased because it truly does change lives.” #
03.19.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s repeated attacks on our law enforcement agencies, including singling out the Special Counsel’s investigation by name for the first time. “Interfering with Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation is a red line that cannot be crossed. If President Trump does not heed warnings to let the investigation continue independently, we will have a major constitutional crisis. In that moment, if all elected officials do not put country before party we will have lost democracy,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Congress must do its job and protect the Special Counsel. I wish that all my colleagues—Republican and Democrat alike—would join in passing legislation to ensure the investigation continues without interruption.”
03.19.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) introduced legislation that would make health insurance more affordable for middle class families. While the vast majority of people get assistance with their health care costs, more than 20 million Americans purchase health insurance through the individual marketplace many without assistance, often leaving them with outrageously high premiums. The Affordable Health Insurance for the Middle Class Act (H.R. 5258) would help ensure all Americans have access to coverage by eliminating the income cap on receiving subsidies to help pay for health premiums. Under this bill, no individual or family would have to pay more than 9.69 percent of their monthly income toward health insurance premiums. Senator Dianne Feinstein introduced companion legislation to H.R. 5258 in the U.S. Senate. “Health insurance premiums are expected to skyrocket by 35 to 94 percent in the next three years, due in large part to the Trump Administration’s efforts to undermine the ACA, and the current income cap prevents many middle class individuals and families from receiving the help they need to purchase insurance. I am lucky to be a survivor of cancer, and fortunate to have purchased Contra Costa Health Plan insurance or the expense of treatment could have bankrupted me,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “This bill would provide assistance to families to help them balance the costs of health care with their other expenses – many of which are exponentially higher in the Bay Area than in the rest of the country.” “Democrats want to make the Affordable Care Act work better for families nationwide by addressing affordability issues within the individual market. One solution is our bill to eliminate the sharp cut-off for tax-credit subsidies that blocks middle-class families from receiving financial help. The Commonwealth Fund has analyzed this change and the benefits are clear—1.2 million people would gain coverage, premiums overall would decrease and the individual market would have a better balance of healthy and sick enrollees. Importantly, 400,000 people who are insured, but may be struggling to pay their premiums will also gain access to tax-credit subsidies. Older Americans between ages 50-64 would see the greatest benefit because they pay up to three times more for insurance. It’s estimated that 96 percent of the newly insured would be in this age group. Expanding eligibility for tax-credit subsidies would partially pay for itself. By attracting healthier people to the market and lowering premiums, the federal government would spend less on tax-credit subsidies for those who already receive them,” said Senator Feinstein. Under current law, individuals and families making even one dollar more than the $48,560 limit for an individual or $83,120 limit for a family of three are not eligible to receive federal assistance to buy health insurance on the individual market. The Affordable Health Insurance for Middle Class Act would address gaps in affordability and would provide critical protections for Americans, particularly those aged 50 to 64 who are often subject to higher premiums but are not yet eligible for Medicare. The companion legislation, S. 1307, was introduced by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) as well as Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) and Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.). The complete list of supporting organizations includes: American Academy of Pediatrics, American Association of Neurological Surgeons (AANS); Child Welfare League of America; Congress of Neurological Surgeons (CNS; Consumers Union; Families USA; Lung Cancer Alliance; National Farmers Union; The Children’s Health Fund; Third Way. #
03.16.2018	Caption: Congressman DeSaulnier receives 2018 Congressional Voice for Children Award from the National PTA (Pictured Left to Right: Congressman DeSaulnier; Celia Jaffe, President-elect, California PTA; Sherry Skelly Griffith, Executive Director; California PTA; Jim Accomando, President, National PTA. Washington, DC – The National Parent Teacher Association (PTA) honored Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) with the 2018 Congressional Voice for Children Award for outstanding leadership and commitment to improving education and outcomes for students. This bipartisan, bicameral award is given to two Members of Congress each year. Congressman DeSaulnier was the only member of the House of Representatives and only Democrat honored this year. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) is the other recipient. Previous awardees include House Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-VA) and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME). "Learning does not start and stop in the classroom. When parents, teachers and the entire community work together to ensure all students receive a quality education, we are setting future generations up to succeed and thrive,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. "I am honored to receive the Congressional Voice for Children Award from the National PTA for our work on behalf of our nation’s schools and students. I look forward to continuing to work with the dedicated members of the PTA in California and around the country to support teachers, improve our schools, and prioritize student success.” "I am so very happy to see that the National PTA has chosen to honor Congressman DeSaulnier for his excellent achievements on behalf of all students. Throughout his decades-long political career, Mark has worked diligently to ensure that each child has the opportunity to reach his or her full potential,” said Congressman George Miller, Ret. “I want to congratulate Rep. DeSaulnier for this award and for his outstanding commitment to public education in California and across the nation,” said California State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Torlakson. “I’ve been lucky to know and work with Mark for many years, and he is a true champion for our students, their parents and their schools.” Representative DeSaulnier is a member of the U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce. He introduced the bipartisan Family Engagement in Education Act in the 114th Congress and was instrumental in ensuring that the Statewide Family Engagement Centers (SFECs) program was included in the Every Student Succeeds Act. In addition to family engagement, Representative DeSaulnier worked in a bipartisan manner to introduce the School Food Modernization Act and is a co-sponsor of the IDEA Full Funding Act and the Rebuild America’s Schools Act. “Representative DeSaulnier is dedicated to improving education and advancing issues impacting the health, well-being and long-term success of our nation’s children. He also recognizes the essential role family engagement plays in these efforts,” said Jim Accomando, President of National PTA. “We commend him for being a powerful voice for change for children and schools, and we are thrilled to honor him with our 2018 Congressional Voice for Children Award.” Congressional award winners are nominated and selected by the National PTA Legislation Committee and National PTA President. During the 2018 National PTA Legislative Conference, DeSaulnier was presented with the award and a video recorded by students in his district. #
03.13.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Jerry McNerney (CA-09) announced they will host a joint town hall at Dallas Ranch Middle School in Antioch on Tuesday, March 27th at 6:30 p.m. The City of Antioch is split between the two representatives. During the town hall, DeSaulnier and McNerney will provide a legislative update, and constituents will have an opportunity to ask them questions. Antioch Town Hall with Congressman McNerney (CA-09) Tuesday, March 27, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Dallas Ranch Middle School 1401 Mt. Hamilton Drive Antioch, CA 94531Doors Open at 6:00 p.m. This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information contact Representative DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
03.07.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Ted Poe (R-TX), both cancer survivors and co-chairs of the Congressional Cancer Survivors Caucus, announced bipartisan legislation to help patients better navigate their cancer diagnosis. The Cancer Care Planning and Communications Act (H.R. 5160) would improve doctor-patient communication by enabling doctors to bill Medicare for the time they spend developing comprehensive cancer care plans. According to a recent study cited by the National Institutes of Health only 45 percent of patients felt adequately informed about their cancer diagnosis. “Medical breakthroughs are at an all-time high, but advancements in doctor-patient communications are not keeping pace. We know that less than half of all cancer patients feel adequately informed about their diagnosis. Without a written plan explaining treatments and expected symptoms, patients are often left with more questions than answers. As a cancer survivor, who is grateful to have a healthy and full life ahead of me, I hope that my experience and this legislation will help others better navigate a diagnosis,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. "Cancer is an epidemic in our country. Approximately 1.7 million Americans will be diagnosed with cancer this year alone. As a cancer survivor myself, I know how difficult it can be to understand what the plan for a patients’ treatment is," said Congressman Ted Poe. "This legislation takes a positive step forward by incentivizing doctors to help their patients understand their planned cancer care path and giving them the peace of mind, all cancer patients, and their families deserve." “The Cancer Care Planning and Communications Act is a tangible way to significantly improve the quality of care for cancer patients in Medicare,” said National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship CEO Shelley Fuld Nasso. “Care plans before, during, and after treatment encourage communication between providers and patients, and help alleviate some anxiety at every phase of the care continuum. The CCPC Act would empower patients with tools to manage and coordinate their care from active treatment throughout survivorship. NCCS and our partners look forward to working with Reps. DeSaulnier and Poe to move the CCPC Act forward.” “We commend the Congressional Cancer Survivors Caucus co-chairs for advancing this important legislation,” said CEO and Executive Director of the Inova Schar Cancer Institute, Donald L. Trump, MD, FACP. “The data show clearly that personalized and coordinated care leads to better outcomes – including longer survival. Cancer care is more and more complicated – and successful; it is critical that physicians and patients be full partners in their treatment, that the overall plan of treatment and post-treatment care be fully developed and communicated - that’s what the Cancer Care Planning and Communications Act is promoting.”The complete list of supporting organizations includes: American Society for Clinical Oncology; American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network; Association of Community Cancer Centers; CancerCare; C-Change; Cancer Support Community; Comprehensive Cancer Center of Wake Forest University; Dan L. Duncan Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine; Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; Fight Colorectal Cancer; Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center at Columbia University; International Myeloma Foundation; Kidney Cancer Association; Leukemia & Lymphoma Society; LIVESTRONG Foundation; Lymphoma Research Foundation; Markey Cancer Center at University of Kentucky; Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota; National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship; National Comprehensive Cancer Network; National Patient Advocate Foundation; Ovarian Cancer National Alliance; Prevent Cancer Foundation; Purdue University Center for Cancer Research; Susan G. Komen; UAB Comprehensive Cancer Center; University of Arizona Cancer Center; University of Kansas Cancer Center; West Virginia Oncology Society. #
03.01.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he is hosting the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for California’s 11th Congressional District. High school artists living in Contra Costa County may begin submitting original artwork to his office from now until Monday, April 30, 2018. The winning piece will be selected by a panel of local judges and announced at an event in Contra Costa County following the submission deadline. “Young people in this country are bringing about change by sharing their opinions and emotions. Art has always been an outlet for expression, and we look forward to being inspired and moved by the creativity of our high school students in Contra Costa. I encourage students to participate in the competition and share their artistic talent with our community,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. This event is open to all high school students in California’s 11th Congressional District, and the winning piece will be displayed, along with one from each district nationwide, in the U.S. Capitol. Additionally, the winner will have the opportunity to visit Washington DC to attend a national reception honoring winners from around the country. Submissions may be up to 26 inches high, 26 inches wide, and 4 inches deep, and must arrive at one of Congressman DeSaulnier’s district offices, in Walnut Creek or Richmond, no later than 5:00 p.m. on April 30, 2018. Complete contest guidelines and submission forms are available on Congressman DeSaulnier’s website at:https://desaulnier.house.gov/services/art-competition #
02.27.2018	Walnut Creek, CA — Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host his 60th town hall and mobile district office hour since taking office in January of 2015. The town hall will be held at Ygnacio Valley High School in Concord this Saturday, March 3rd at 11:00 a.m. “I am so proud to represent this community that is so civically engaged, and invite all constituents to attend our 60th town hall to share their thoughts, opinions, and questions.” Concord 60th Town Hall Saturday, March 3, 2018 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Ygnacio Valley High School 755 Oak Grove Road Concord, CA 94518 DeSaulnier’s regular and frequent practice of holding town halls was among the reasons his office was recently nominated by the Congressional Management Foundation as a finalist in the first-ever Democracy Awards for outstanding Constituent Service.This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. To confirm attendance, please by RSVP online at https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations, translation services, or for more information please contact one of Congressman DeSaulnier’s offices in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
02.27.2018	Washington, DC — Today, at the U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Aviation Subcommittee hearing on “The State of Aviation Safety,” Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) questioned officials from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) about the importance of cockpit voice recorders (CVRs) and their value in investigating runway safety incidents. During the hearing, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Transportation cited data that revealed runway incursions increased by nearly 83 percent between 2011 and 2017. “As a frequent flyer, I am proud that the number of accidents in our nation’s air travel system has steadily declined and that our system is so safe. Rather than sit back and get comfortable, we should instead shift our focus to studying near-miss incidents, which are on the rise, to learn what we can and avoid catastrophes in the future. Today, both the NTSB and the FAA agreed that access to data recorded in the cockpit can help us maintain and maybe improve our safety record,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The rise of runway incursions and the increasing number of close calls involving planes nearly landing on taxiways or incorrect runways, including three incidents at SFO, prompted Congressman DeSaulnier to call for an urgent response to ensure federal agencies are learning everything they can to prevent an accident before it happens. Just last week, DeSaulnier led a request, with Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA), for the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review data on safety incidents and FAA’s framework for responding to them. In December of 2017, DeSaulnier called on Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) to hold a hearing on improving aviation safety. A clip of DeSaulnier’s exchange from today’s hearing with FAA and NTSB can be found here. #
02.27.2018	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after voting in opposition to the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (H.R. 1865). “Across the globe, more than 20 million people become victims of sex trafficking every year. As Chair of the Labor Committee in the California State Senate, I held a hearing on the impact of this serious human rights violation on the victims and how we might be able to influence the labor market to decrease this practice. While I applaud the intent of H.R. 1865, its unintended consequences could do more harm than good. In addition to the sex trafficking provisions, the bill further criminalizes people who have been forced into sex work with no other options to provide for themselves and their families. Rather than criminalize the outcomes, we should address the root causes of these decisions, like lack of job access or training. I hope instead to support legislation that protects victims of sex trafficking without harming others. #
02.23.2018	Washington, DC – Representative Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) has called for a U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) review of existing data on aviation safety incidents and an assessment of whether there are any gaps in collection and reporting of critical safety information. The study was requested by DeSaulnier, Transportation & Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Aviation Rick Larsen (D-WA). “We are fortunate that our aviation system in this country is so safe that catastrophic accidents are few and far between. To ensure we maintain this high standard for safety, we need to learn everything we can from the kinds of near-miss incidents we’ve seen over the past several months, three of which occurred at SFO,” said Representative Mark DeSaulnier. This study is an important first step in ensuring the FAA is gathering information and addressing these safety concerns in the most effective way possible, and that it is adapting to new conditions and a changing aviation industry.” The GAO review request was submitted to Comptroller General of the United States and head of the GAO Gene L. Dodaro, and signed by the three members. “Now is the time to take a closer look at what steps are necessary to prevent future near misses and runway incursions at airports across the United States,” said Representative Larsen. “The number of incidents over the last year, including in Washington state, are a cause for concern. A better understanding of current safety gaps would help ensure the safety of the 2.5 million people who fly in and out of U.S. airports every day.” In the last seven months, five high profile, “near-miss” incidents have occurred at airports in the United States: July 7, 2017, at San Francisco (SFO): An Air Canada flight lined up to land on a taxiway occupied by four planes loaded with passengers before executing a go-around. October 12, 2017, at SFO: An Air Canada flight landed on a runway in spite of repeated instructions from air traffic control to execute a go-around. November 29, 2017, at Atlanta: A Delta Air Lines plane on approach in low visibility overflew a taxiway occupied by another plane loaded with passengers during a go-around. December 29, 2017, at Pullman, Washington: A Horizon Air plane landed on a taxiway. January 9, 2018, at SFO: An Aeromexico plane lined up to land on the wrong runway, which was occupied by a plane waiting to take off. The Aeromexico plane then executed a go-around. #
02.20.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – As we continue to grieve the loss of 17 innocent lives in Parkland, Florida, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will host a gun violence prevention town hall at Stanley Middle School in Lafayette on Saturday, February 24th. Gun Violence Prevention Town Hall Saturday, February 24, 2018 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Stanley Middle School, Multi-Use Room 3455 School Street Lafayette, CA 94549 This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. To confirm your attendance please RSVP online at https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations or for more information, please contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office. #
02.16.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after the Special Counsel’s office brought 13 indictments against Russian businesses and nationals for criminal conspiracy to interfere with the Presidential election in 2016: “Russia used our social media networks to sway public opinion and help elect Donald Trump President. The level of detail and intricacy with which this criminal conspiracy was executed warrants immediate action by Congress. The Special Counsel’s investigation also must continue without interference from the White House. This is no hoax, it is not fake news. We must take action to protect the integrity of our democracy in advance of the 2018 election.” Earlier this month and again this week, Congressman DeSaulnier called on Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) to investigate the sale, abuse, and possible influence of social media bots on the 2016 election, but has yet to receive a response. #
02.15.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and a group of Democratic Members on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee urged Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) to hold a hearing investigating the possible influence fake social media accounts, known as “bots,” had on the 2016 Presidential election. Congressman DeSaulnier was joined in calling for a hearing by Representatives Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Stephen Lynch (MA-08), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Peter Welch (VT-AL), and Jimmy Gomez (CA-34). “Wholesale companies like Devumi make millions of dollars selling fake accounts, [known as bots,] to ‘social media influencers’ looking to spread their reach,” wrote the Representatives. “Recent estimates by the University of Southern California and Indiana University indicate that as high as 15 percent of users on Twitter may be bots. While companies profit handsomely off of these fake accounts, there are very real consequences. Bot accounts can spread false information at staggering rates, altering public opinion that could even sway our elections,” continued the Members. “As members of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, we must address this problem as the national threat it is,” the letter concluded. This letter echoes a request sent earlier this month by DeSaulnier to Chairman Gowdy demanding a hearing on this issue.The full text of the letter follows: February 15, 2018 The Honorable Trey Gowdy Chairman House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 2157 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Gowdy: According to recent reports in the New York Times and Los Angeles Times, corporations have been selling “followers” to consumers made up largely of fake social media accounts. Often these accounts are spoofed off of real users, without their knowledge. We request that you hold a hearing to investigate the possible influence of these “bots” on the 2016 Presidential election, and invite representatives of companies who sell these accounts to testify before the committee. According to reports, wholesale companies like Devumi make millions of dollars selling fake accounts to “social media influencers” looking to spread their reach. These influencers often pay thousands of dollars to amass hundreds of thousands of “followers,” the majority of which are now known to be bots. Recent estimates by the University of Southern California (USC) and Indiana University indicate that as high as 15 percent of users on Twitter may be bots. While companies profit handsomely off of these fake accounts, there are very real consequences. Bot accounts can spread false information at staggering rates, altering public opinion that could even sway our elections. It is vital that we understand how companies like Devumi operate in order to prevent these bot accounts from destabilizing the public’s trust in our nation’s elections and undermining our national security. States have recognized the seriousness of this matter and have begun to act. In California, legislation has been introduced to require automated accounts to come with disclaimers. The bill would also require “advertising purchased on social media be made by accounts verified to be controlled by an actual person.” As members of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, we must address this problem as the national threat it is. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We are available to discuss the need for this hearing at your earliest convenience. #
02.09.2018	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after voting in opposition to the budget agreement (H.R. 1892), which passed the House by a vote of 240-to-186. “I cannot support giving the already bloated Department of Defense (DoD) hundreds of billions of dollars in additional funds when $8.5 trillion previously given to the DoD was unaccounted for, $125 billion in wasteful spending was buried, and just this week it was reported that the agency lost track of $800 million more, and the DoD has never had a complete audit. Taxpayer dollars should be spent in a transparent, efficient manner and reflect the priorities and needs of working families. “This 652 page major piece of legislation had no hearings, no non-partisan analysis, and could not be read by most Members. “I am also concerned that this so-called deal did not include a commitment from Republican Leadership to bring a bipartisan immigration bill to be debated and voted on in the U.S. House of Representatives, so there would be an open debate and Democrats and Republicans would vote, and be held to account for their votes, by the American people. The ‘People’s House’ needs to return to an open and functioning democratic institution.” Congressman DeSaulnier is the author of the Department of Defense Waste Reduction Act (H.R. 2367) to prevent DoD from receiving any additional funding until wasteful practices within the Department are addressed. He also called for congressional hearings to investigate DoD’s spending practices, and supports the 2017 DoD audit.
02.06.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after House Republicans voted to pass the fifth Continuing Resolution in the last four months by a vote of 245-to-182. “Less than 3 weeks after the Republican shutdown, here we are again voting on another short term budget. Each time Republicans advance a temporary bill, they shortchange the American people: Dreamers, community health centers, our military, and millions of others are left wondering about their future. As a small business owner, I never ran my business like this – we should not accept it from Republican leaders.” #
02.02.2018	Washington, DC – Following troubling reports by the New York Times and Los Angeles Times that corporations, like Devumi, have sold millions of fake social media accounts that often impersonate real users, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) called on Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) to convene a hearing on the sale, abuse, and possible influence social media bots could have had in the 2016 Presidential election. “Bot accounts can spread false information for deceptive purposes, such as altering public opinion to sway elections, with superhuman veracity,” wrote DeSaulnier. “It is essential that we understand how companies like Devumi operate in order to prevent these bot accounts from destabilizing the public’s trust in our nation’s elections and undermining our national security.” The influence of these fake accounts is far reaching. It is suspected that roughly 48 million active users on Twitter are bots, and in November of 2017, Facebook testified that upwards of 60 million automated accounts have been deployed on its platform alone. This week, Twitter notified 1.4 million Americans that they interacted with or promoted Russian-linked activities during the 2016 Presidential election. The full text of the letter follows: February 1, 2018 The Honorable Trey Gowdy Chairman House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 2157 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Gowdy: Recent reports in the New York Times depict a troubling practice of corporations selling fake social media accounts, often spoofed off of real, unknowing users. I request that you hold a hearing to investigate their possible influence on the 2016 Presidential election, and invite representatives of companies who sell these accounts to testify. According to the New York Times, companies like Devumi have made millions of dollars selling fake accounts to “social media influencers” looking to spread their reach. Influencers, ranging from celebrity chefs to sports stars, pay thousands of dollars to amass hundreds of thousands of “followers,” the majority of which are now known to be bots. Although seemingly innocuous, this practice can be dangerous. Bot accounts can spread false information for deceptive purposes, such as altering public opinion to sway elections, with superhuman veracity. It is essential that we understand how companies like Devumi operate in order to prevent these bot accounts from destabilizing the public’s trust in our nation’s elections and undermining our national security. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. I am available to discuss the need for a hearing on this essential topic at your earliest convenience. Sincerely, Mark DeSaulnier Member of Congress CC: Rep. Elijah Cummings, Ranking Member, House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform #
02.01.2018	Richmond, CA – Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Barbara Lee (CA-13) will host “A Conversation on Race” this Saturday, February 3rd at 2:00 p.m. in San Pablo. This town hall is an opportunity to have a constructive conversation about the challenges we face—particularly in the current political climate. It will explore the history of race in America and the Bay Area, how far we have come, and where we go from here. Conversation on Race with Representatives DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Lee (CA-13) Saturday, February 3, 2018 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Contra Costa College John & Jean Knox Performing Arts Center 2600 Mission Bell Drive San Pablo, CA 94806(Theater on the corner of El Portal Drive and Castro Drive)Panelists Include: UC Berkeley Professors: Lisa Garcia Bedolla, Ula Y. Taylor, and john a. powell; Vice Chancellor for Equity and Inclusion Oscar Dubón Jr. Format: The event will feature brief remarks, followed a Q&A session with the Representatives, panelists, and attendees.This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. To confirm your attendance, please RSVP online at https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations or for more information contact one of Congressman DeSaulnier’s offices in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. This will be the first in a series of town halls on race Congressman DeSaulnier will be hosting. #
01.30.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host four town hall meetings throughout Contra Costa County during the month of February. At each of the town halls, attendees will be provided with a Congressional update and given the opportunity to ask questions. Since being elected to Congress in January 2015, he has hosted 55 town hall meetings and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. Martinez Town Hall with Congressman Mike Thompson (CA-05) Thursday, February 1, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Martinez Junior High School 1600 Court Street Martinez, CA 94553 Conversation on Race with Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13) Saturday, February 3, 2018 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Contra Costa College John & Jean Knox Performing Arts Center 2600 Mission Bell Drive San Pablo, CA 94806(Theater on the corner of El Portal Drive and Castro Drive) Seniors Town Hall in San Pablo Thursday, February 8, 2018 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. San Pablo Senior Center 1943 Church Lane San Pablo, CA 94806 Pleasant Hill Town Hall Monday, February 12, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Diablo Valley College, Cafeteria 321 Golf Club Road Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 To confirm your attendance, please RSVP online at https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. To request ADA accommodations or for more information contact one of Congressman DeSaulnier’s offices in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
01.29.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) has invited Master Sergeant (MSG) Linda Ray, retired U.S. Army Reserves and sexual assault survivor, to be his guest at President Trump’s first State of the Union Address tomorrow. While serving in the military, during a time when the Army was first integrating men and women into the same platoons, MSG Ray was sexually assaulted by a superior in her unit. Although a trial was conducted and MSG Ray testified, the Army never informed her of the outcome, and now claims it has no records to provide. “Having first met Linda Ray almost 20 years ago, I have come to know her as a strong and committed member of our community. Through her dedication to our military and Contra Costa County she has helped improve the lives of many, including mentoring and supporting students and service members as a member of my Military and Veterans Advisory Board,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “It is an honor to host her at the State of the Union. I hope her story and resilience shed light on the importance of the #MeToo movement and exposing and confronting sexual assault in all areas of our society including the highest levels of government, military, sports, Hollywood, and everyday workplaces.” “I was resigned to take my incident to the grave; virtually unspoken and unresolved,” said MSG Ray. “When I was assaulted over thirty-five years ago, it was expected for women to keep their stories quiet. But there I was, on the other hand, a fierce and independent woman of the ‘70s, who did not flinch in taking my assaulter to a military trial. After the trial, and to this day, I have never been informed of the outcome, and in time I learned to move on with my life,” continued MSG Ray. “Since my incident, society has begun to change. In the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal I felt compelled to speak up. I summoned the courage to tell my story and with help of Congressman DeSaulnier requested records of the trial, but the Army responded that no records have been found,” said MSG Ray. “Our military and all institutions have an obligation to support survivors of assault. Being invited to the State of the Union Address is an incredible honor. As we say in the military, it's a tight shot group of circumstances and kismet that has led me here, and I am glad to be among other brave women and men willing to tell their stories. I've known Mark for over two decades, and it's been a sincere privilege to serve alongside him in different capacities. He is an intelligent, hardworking, dedicated Representative, and an even better man,” concluded MSG Ray. MSG Ray served in the Army for 21 years, where she was awarded the Marine Corps Achievement Medal for her many tours with National Defense University, in support of the reserves component’s national security course; as well as two Army Commendations Medals and an Army Achievement Medal; and was Solider of the Year at brigade level in 1983. As a civilian Ms. Ray worked as a Senior Public Health Advisor for Contra Costa County for 10 years, and served on the Concord Women’s Committee, which helped connect women with networking and professional training. Ms. Ray was also a member of the Retail Clerks International, Butchers, and International Brotherhood of Teamsters Unions. Currently, MSG Ray sits on Congressman DeSaulnier’s Military and Veterans Advisory Board. #
01.23.2018	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will now host a town hall meeting in Pleasant Hill on Monday, February 12th at 6:30 p.m. The town hall was originally scheduled for tonight, but was postponed when Republican Leadership and the Trump Administration forced a government shutdown over the weekend. Since a bipartisan agreement was reached yesterday evening to re-open the government, Congressman DeSaulnier will be returning to California today and looks forward to hosting a town hall in Pleasant Hill on February 12th. Since taking office in January of 2015, Mark has hosted 55 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County where he provides a Congressional update, discusses current events, and answers questions from constituents. Pleasant Hill Town HallNew Date: Monday, February 12, 2018 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.(Doors Open at 6:00 p.m.) Diablo Valley College 321 Golf Club Rd Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 To confirm your attendance please RSVP online at https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations contact Mark’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the Continuing Resolution to fund the government for three weeks until February 8th, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 266-to-150. “This shutdown was completely unnecessary and avoidable. While I am pleased it is over, the three-week Continuing Resolution was not enough of a compromise for me to support it. Republican Leadership is continuing to deprive Members, on both sides of the aisle, of the opportunity to vote on must-address issues like permanent funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and community health centers, disaster relief, and a solution for the nearly 800,000 Dreamers. Trust remains the coin of the realm in politics, and it is now up to the Republican Leadership and the Trump Administration to keep their word and address these issues in a timely and efficient manner, so in three weeks we are not here again.” #
01.18.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a continuing resolution, H.R. 195, by a vote of 230-to-197. “For months, Republican Leadership and the Trump Administration were singularly focused on passing a tax scam to benefit the ultra-wealthy and corporations. Instead of working with Democrats to develop a comprehensive budget, they have put our country on the brink of a government shutdown for the fourth time in as many months. This is no way for government to run. Without a budget deal, priorities important to our district including the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and community health centers will not receive the funding they need, and the 800,000 Dreamers will remain in limbo. It has been more than 20 years since Congress passed a budget through the normal process. I voted against H.R. 195, because it is long past time for government to work for the people, and I support a bill that puts first the health, wellbeing, and success of all Americans.” #
01.04.2018	Richmond, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host a tax-focused town hall meeting in El Cerrito on Saturday, January 13th at 2:00 p.m. This town hall was originally scheduled in December, but was postponed when Republican Leadership changed the voting schedule to rush the tax bill through Congress. Since taking office in 2015, Mark has hosted 53 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. In his first town hall of 2018, Congress DeSaulnier invites residents to participate in a discussion of the new Republican tax law, which was passed by Congressional Republicans and signed into law by President Trump last month. The law increases taxes on more than 5.5 million California families. Bay Area residents who own or are interested in purchasing a home, in one of the most expensive housing markets in the country, are particularly impacted by the law. New home purchasers are subject to limits on the mortgage interest deduction and current homeowners have lost the ability to fully deduct state and local taxes (SALT). The bill was jammed through Congress with little debate and no Democratic amendments in an effort to deliver a massive tax cut to corporations and the wealthiest 1%. During the town hall constituents will be provided with an overview of the legislation and its potential impact on Bay Area residents, and will have an opportunity to ask questions or share comments about the new law. El Cerrito Town Hall Saturday, January 13, 2018 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. El Cerrito Community Center 7007 Moeser Lane El Cerrito, CA 94530 Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling (925) 933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after Republicans voted to pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) out of the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 227-to-203. “Hatched in secret and rushed through Congress, this lopsided bill increases taxes on more than half of all middle class families, at least 5.5 million of which are Californians, and fans the flames of inequality in our country. With more than 80 percent of the bill’s benefits going to the top 1%—people like President Trump, his family, and billionaire political donors— and to corporations, our children will be left to pay the bill. “The long-term effects of this plan, which adds $2.2 trillion to the national debt and causes 13 million to lose health coverage, will be devastating to the American public and will lead to future cuts to programs middle class families depend on, like Medicare and Social Security. In the interim, families in California will lose the ability to fully deduct their state and local taxes (SALT), double-taxing on average $13,000 of annual income - a change that will impact many families in my district. There have been very few times in my career that I have been as discouraged as I have been watching Republicans pull this fast-one on the American people.” #
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, welcomed the Department of Defense (DoD) first-ever agency-wide financial audit in its history. In 2006, it was discovered that $8.5 trillion given to the Department of Defense since 1996 was unaccounted for, due in part to its complex bookkeeping systems. Equally troubling, early last year, it was exposed by the Washington Post that DoD tried to bury the results of a study they commissioned that identified $125 billion in wasteful spending. “As President Eisenhower warned, ‘we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex.’ The bloated budget at the Department of Defense has become what President Eisenhower prophesized. It is long past time for the Pentagon to undergo an audit of its assets. After reports of $125 billion of waste at the DoD and years of repeatedly authorizing bloated defense budgets—this audit is a welcome first step,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier introduced the Department of Defense Waste Reduction Act (H.R. 2367) to prevent DoD from receiving any additional funding until wasteful spending practices within the Department are addressed. Additionally, he and Congresswoman Jackie Speier called for congressional hearings to investigate DoD’s spending practices. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform responded and held a hearing on this topic. In 2009, Congress passed a law requiring DoD to be audit-ready by 2017. "We should spend the money we need on ensuring our nation's security, but Pentagon waste, fraud and abuse damage our ability to do that. All too often, funds in the DOD budget vanish into a bureaucratic black hole, and neither taxpayers nor senior military leaders can figure out where the money is going. A thorough, agency-wide audit of DoD spending is long overdue. Frankly, we can't afford not to audit the Defense Department," said Rosa Brooks, author, a Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation, a columnist for Foreign Policy, and a law professor at Georgetown University. “We must insist on greater accountability to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent in a transparent and thoughtful manner. Since coming to Congress, I have not voted in favor of the annual bill to authorize defense spending and will continue to oppose the measure until the DoD has completed a full audit and I am confident taxpayers’ hard earned money is spent in an open, transparent, and efficient manner that also ensures our troops’ safety,” DeSaulnier concluded. #
12.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after joining Congresswoman Lois Frankel, the Democratic Women’s Working Group, and over 100 Members of Congress in calling on House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman, Congressman Trey Gowdy, to immediately investigate numerous sexual misconduct allegations against President Donald Trump. The Oversight and Government Reform Committee, of which DeSaulnier is a Member, may investigate any matter, at any time as set forth in House Rule X. “The Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has the authority, and should immediately commence an investigation into the allegations of sexual misconduct by President Trump. We cannot allow those who have used their positions of power, prestige or celebrity to prey on others. In the United States of America no one— not even the President—is above the law. Congress owes it to the 17 women who have been willing to speak out about their experiences, and to our country to thoroughly investigate this matter, and to do so with transparency, accountability, and due process.” #
12.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) joined Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN) and Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) to introduce the bipartisan, bicameral Stop Underrides Act of 2017, which would help prevent deadly truck underride crashes. An ‘underride crash’ occurs when a car collides with a truck and gets lodged underneath. These accidents are among the most fatal types of accidents on the road. Studies and pilot programs show that when a simple barrier, known an ‘underride guard,’ is attached to the lower area of a truck it can help prevent a car from sliding underneath a truck in an accident. Under current federal law, underride guards required to be installed on the back of a truck, but the standards are outdated, and these guards are not currently required to be installed on the sides or front of trucks. The Stop Underrides Act of 2017 requires underride guards to be installed on the sides and front of a truck and that the outdated standards for underride guards on the back of trucks are updated. Additionally, the bill requires that during the annual inspection for all large trucks includes underride guards as part of the inspection and would require the Department of Transportation to review underride standards every five years to evaluate the need for changes in response to advancements in technology. “Over 300 people are killed each year from truck underride collisions, and these collisions are often underreported, it is time to act. No mother or father should see their child’s life cut short by an accident that could have been prevented with commonsense safety improvements. Fatalities from motor vehicle accidents in California increased 13 percent from 2015 to 2016, and this bill is an important step towards making our roads safer,” said Representative DeSaulnier. “I am proud to join Senator Gillibrand, Senator Rubio, and Congressman Cohen to introduce this legislation, and I am grateful for the perseverance of Marianne Karth and Lois Durso, who each lost children in truck underride collisions, for their work to make this bill possible.” “I am proud to sponsor this bipartisan, bicameral legislation to finally address the issue of truck underride fatalities. By implementing the use of strong rear, side, and front underride guards, this legislation will make full use of the decades of car safety technologies already required in passenger vehicles and prevent needless deaths,” said Representative Cohen. “My heart goes out to all the families who have been affected by these tragic collisions, including Marianne Karth, Lois Durso, Jennifer Tierney and especially Randy and Laurie Higginbotham, whose 33-year old son, Michael, was killed in a truck underride crash in my area of Memphis – your advocacy and sacrifice, along with the support of the Truck Safety Coalition and Advocates for Highway Safety have brought us all to this point. This legislation will save lives, it’s the right thing to do, and that’s bottom line.” “With so many unpredictable accidents on the road, underride guards are an easy solution for protecting people and preventing them from dying when a car collides with a truck,” said Senator Gillibrand. “This bipartisan legislation would save lives, and we should pass it as quickly as possible to keep Americans safe while they’re driving, whether they’re heading to see family and friends for the holidays or driving to work on their morning commute. I urge all of my colleagues to join me and Senator Rubio on this bipartisan bill.” “Florida is one of the states with the highest number of reported fatalities due to underride collisions. With hundreds of Americans losing their lives due to these crashes every year, the Stop Underrides Act seeks to prevent these kind of deaths, make our roads safer, and spare more families the grief of losing a loved one by implementing underride guards on trucks across the nation,” said Senator Rubio. “I ask my colleagues in Congress to join me in advancing efforts to save hundreds of lives across the country.” “I am the survivor of a terrible truck crash. I'm the mom of two daughters, AnnaLeah & Mary, who did not survive. The difference? Their part of the car went under the truck; mine did not,” said Marianne Karth. “When I learned that hundreds of people die each year from underride and that something could have been done to prevent their deaths, I became a mom on a mission to make truck crashes more survivable.” "It is unacceptable to allow truck underride crashes to continue snuffing out the lives of our loved ones... year after year... decade after decade when it is absolutely preventable,” said Lois Durso. “We must not turn a blind eye to the truck underride carnage. I am grateful for the leadership of Senator Gillibrand, Senator Rubio and Congressman Cohen – they have taken the necessary steps to save countless lives." “The Stop Underrides Act is a long-overdue solution to a long-standing safety problem. Every year hundreds of people are needlessly killed or severely injured in truck underride crashes,” said Jacqueline Gillan, President, Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety. “The National Transportation Safety Board has issued multiple recommendations for improved rear underride guards and for side and front underride protection systems. It is now time for action.” “Motor vehicle crashes continue to be a leading cause of death in the U.S., and too many involve large trucks," said Deborah A.P. Hersman, President and CEO of the National Safety Council. "Every single one of these deaths is preventable. We applaud Sen. Gillibrand and her colleagues for their leadership in this area, and look forward to supporting all efforts to make our roads safer." “The issue of truck underride crashes has persisted for too long. As an organization that works with families who lost loved ones and with survivors of truck underride crashes, we fully support the Stop Underrides Act,” said John Lannen, Executive Director of the Truck Safety Coalition. “We commend Senator Gillibrand, Senator Rubio, and Representative Cohen for sponsoring legislation that will strengthen rear underride guards, mandate side underride guards, and require proper maintenance of these life-saving guards. We are hopeful that other Members of Congress will join them in this bipartisan effort to reduce the unnecessary deaths and injuries that occur as a result of truck underride collisions.” The Stop Underrides Act of 2017 is endorsed by the Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety and the National Safety Council. #
12.11.2017	Washington, DC – Today, as leading American manufacturers continue to design, develop, and unveil commercially-available electric trucks, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rodney Davis (R-IL), and Lloyd Smucker (R-PA) announced bipartisan legislation (H.R. 4421) that would allow for the testing of trucks powered by electric batteries. Federal law caps the weight limit on trucks at 80,000 pounds. Since electric battery systems are heavier than diesel fuel tanks, this straightforward bill would allow for a modest weight increase of 2,000 pounds for electric trucks. “In order to maintain America’s competitive edge well into the twenty-first century, this bipartisan effort is a necessary first step. By adjusting federal law to account for new technological advances, we can help spur innovation, support manufacturers, and promote public health and safety,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “As a long-time member of the California Air Resources Board and advocate for environmental protection, I am pleased to partner with my colleagues on an effort that will help test energy-efficient transportation technologies.” “American manufacturers are leading the world in emerging transportation technology, and the recent advances in electric heavy-duty trucks could drastically change the industry for shippers, manufactures, and consumers in the years ahead. This bipartisan bill will encourage the growth of the electric truck industry and the creation of good-paying American jobs, while promoting a transition to cleaner trucks that emit less greenhouse gases. I applaud my colleagues, and look forward to working with them to push this legislation through the House,” said Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member, Peter DeFazio. “I am excited about this new technology, including the numerous safety benefits associated with it, and look forward to seeing how this innovation helps advance the trucking industry,” said Congressman Rodney Davis. “I also hope the introduction of electric trucks continues the conversation about the sustainability of the Highway Trust Fund and the need to create a level playing field by ensuring all highway users are paying into the system.” “Electric trucks can provide great benefits to both our transportation system and our environment. We should be incentivizing the development of and investment in new technologies to improve our freight system, and one way to do that is to extend the 2,000-pound exemption for natural-gas powered trucks to battery-powered electric trucks. I want to thank Reps. DeSaulnier and Davis for their work on this issue, and look forward to working together to help this new technology thrive,” said Congressman Lloyd Smucker. The current federal weight limit for commercial trucks is 80,000 pounds. H.R. 4421 would allow electric trucks that are heavier because of their battery technology to exceed this limit by up to 2,000 pounds. Natural gas trucks are already provided the same weight increase, and this bill would establish a parity for electric vehicle (EV) technology. “EV technology is already showing great promise for the future of safety, environmental protection and customer satisfaction,” said California Air Resources Board Chair Mary D. Nichols. “The current weight restriction laws were designed for a 20th Century fleet, made up of vehicles fueled exclusively of gasoline and diesel. The rules need to be updated to eliminate an unnecessary barrier to introducing the next generation of 21st Century motor vehicles.” #
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D-Concord) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-California) called on Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) Executive Director Steve Heminger to expeditiously examine steps to move forward a second east-west "Southern Crossing" of the San Francisco Bay to help reduce one of the worst traffic problems facing the area, and provide significant benefits for toll payers. Traffic on freeways in the Bay Area has increased by 80 percent since 2010, according to MTC’s own analysis. MTC also ranked the evening commute on I-280 to the Treasure Island Tunnel as having the worst congestion in 2016. It was followed closely by commutes from Contra Costa and Alameda Counties into San Francisco. "The traffic demands on our streets and transit systems have become intolerable. Quality of life is suffering; and, our economy is not nearly thriving as much as it could be if these transportation challenges were addressed. We know you see these challenges and we recognize that you and the State Legislature, in an attempt to address this, have moved forward your plans for Regional Measure III, which, if approved by the electorate, will produce significant revenue to fund a great number of necessary traffic improvement projects throughout the Bay Area," wrote DeSaulnier and Feinstein. "While we appreciate the Regional Measure III effort, we do not think it comes anywhere close to addressing one of the most significant traffic problems facing the Bay Area – namely, the need for an additional route across the Bay for both BART and vehicular traffic. As your annual analysis of freeway congestion demonstrated earlier this Fall, the most congested freeway segments in the Bay Area for the second year in a row are the afternoon commutes northbound and eastbound on U.S. 101 and Interstate 80 from the I-280 interchange in San Francisco to the Bay Bridge’s Yerba Buena Island Tunnel. Moreover, the next most congested route is the westbound direction on I-80, through the Bay Bridge, to Fremont Street. A second crossing would alleviate this traffic through San Francisco and the East Bay, would better connect the entire Bay Area, and would provide significant benefits for toll payers," the Members continued. "We have communicated in the past about the need for another Bay crossing, but this has not led to any concrete action. We need to move this issue forward expeditiously, and we would very much like your assistance in doing so," DeSaulnier and Feinstein concluded. The letter to Executive Director Heminger comes as the Bay Area Toll Authority approaches its December 20, 2017 meeting where the details of Regional Toll Measure III will be discussed and finalized. Earlier this year, the California Legislature passed SB 595, a bill that would increase tolls on major Bay Area bridges by up to $3, except on the Golden Gate, for a total of $8 or $9 a trip. The revenue generated from this increase is to be used for transportation improvements, but no funds have been allocated to adequately address Bay Area congestion and traffic. The full text of the letter follows:December 6, 2017 Mr. Steve Heminger Executive Director Metropolitan Transportation Commission 375 Beale Street San Francisco, CA 94105 Dear Steve, As 2017 draws to a close, we reflect back on some positive steps the Bay Area has taken to improve its transportation situation under the leadership of the MTC. Most notably, we are most proud of our regional effort to secure the release of funding of Caltrain’s Full Funding Grant Agreement, allowing the Caltrain electrification project to proceed, and the initiation of service of the long awaited SMART train in the North Bay. Thank you for your work and your leadership on these projects, as well as on all other fronts. That said, we both know that there remain tremendous challenges in front of us. The traffic demands on our streets and transit systems have become intolerable. Quality of life is suffering; and, our economy is not nearly thriving as much as it could be if these transportation challenges were addressed. We know you see these challenges and we recognize that you and the State Legislature, in an attempt to address this, have moved forward your plans for Regional Measure III, which, if approved by the electorate, will produce significant revenue to fund a great number of necessary traffic improvement projects throughout the Bay Area. While we appreciate the Regional Measure III effort, we do not think it comes anywhere close to addressing one of the most significant traffic problems facing the Bay Area – namely, the need for an additional route across the Bay for both BART and vehicular traffic. As your annual analysis of freeway congestion demonstrated earlier this Fall, the most congested freeway segments in the Bay Area for the second year in a row are the afternoon commutes northbound and eastbound on U.S. 101 and Interstate 80 from the I-280 interchange in San Francisco to the Bay Bridge’s Yerba Buena Island Tunnel. Moreover, the next most congested route is the westbound direction on I-80, through the Bay Bridge, to Fremont Street. A second crossing would alleviate this traffic through San Francisco and the East Bay, would better connect the entire Bay Area, and would provide significant benefits for toll payers. We have communicated in the past about the need for another Bay crossing, but this has not led to any concrete action. We need to move this issue forward expeditiously, and we would very much like your assistance in doing so. Please let us know what steps the MTC can take to move forward a new Bay crossing for both transit and vehicles, and more importantly, what we can do to assist you in this endeavor. We urge you to give this matter your full consideration. Sincerely, Dianne Feinstein United States Senator Mark DeSaulnier Member, House of Representatives #
12.01.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, due to an unforeseen change in the House of Representatives’ voting schedule, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) was forced to postpone his End of the Year town hall, which was scheduled for Monday, December 4th at 6:00 p.m. in El Cerrito. The town hall will be rescheduled at a later date. “I am disappointed that a last-minute change in the House voting schedule will prevent me from being with Contra Costa residents on Monday night. Republicans are calling Members back to DC early to push their tax bill through Congress with as little transparency and public debate as possible. While I will be unable to host the town hall on Monday evening, I will be in DC voting against efforts to pass a tax package that will raise taxes for more than 5.5 million California taxpayers by 2027,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. *POSTPONED* New Date: To Be Announced El Cerrito Town Hall Monday, December 4, 2017 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Harding Elementary School Auditorium 7230 Fairmont Avenue El Cerrito, CA 94530 #
11.29.2017	Richmond, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host an End of the Year town hall meeting in El Cerrito on Monday, December 4th at 6:00 p.m. Since taking office in 2015, Mark has hosted 53 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County, interacting with over 17,500 constituents. Following a busy year filled with controversial actions by the Trump Administration and Republican Leadership, Congressman DeSaulnier invites residents to attend his final town hall of 2017. During the town hall constituents will be provided with a legislative update, and have an opportunity to ask questions or share their thoughts on issues of importance. El Cerrito Town Hall Monday, December 4, 2017 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Harding Elementary Auditorium 7230 Fairmont Avenue El Cerrito, CA 94530 Please RSVP by visiting https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or calling (925) 933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after Republicans voted to pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) out of the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 227 to 205. “In contrast to the last major overhaul of the tax code signed into law by President Ronald Reagan in 1986, Republican Leadership today jammed a highly partisan 429-page bill through the House of Representatives without regard for its impact on everyday Americans. In California, 3.7 million taxpayers will see their taxes increase by 2027 and in Contra Costa County the virtual elimination of the state and local tax deduction and total removal of the student loan and medical expense deductions will result in an annual loss of over $20,000 in deductions for typical households. “Over half the benefits included in the bill go to the wealthiest one percent and corporations. Meanwhile, tax deductions for student loan interest, medical expenses, classroom school supplies, continuing education, and transportation are eliminated. The bill would add $1.7 trillion to the national debt, which Republicans will later use as justification for slashing Social Security, Medicare, and future investments in education, workforce training, and infrastructure. The bill will hurt hardworking families for generations to come,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
11.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will host three town halls on the Republican tax plan over the next week. The town halls will be hosted across a variety of mediums in order to accommodate the busy schedules of his constituents. Since coming to Congress in January 2015, Mark has hosted 50 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. “I invite Contra Costa residents to join me for one of my upcoming town halls on the Republican tax plan. The proposed legislation eliminates the state and local tax deduction and reduces the mortgage interest deduction, which is particularly bad for Bay Area residents. The House is expected to vote on the plan before Thanksgiving, and I hope you will join me to discuss ways it will impact you and your family,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. TAX TELEPHONE TOWN HALL TAX FACEBOOK LIVE TOWN HALL IN PERSON TAX TOWN HALL Tuesday, November 14th Wednesday, November 15th Monday, November 20th 6:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. PST 1:00 p.m. – 2:00 p.m. PST 6:30 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. PST RSVP:https://tthm.wufoo.com/forms/congressman-desaulnier-telephone-town-hall-sign-up/ Submit Questions Here:https://desaulnier.house.gov/contact/email Miramonte High School, Theater 750 Moraga Way Orinda, CA 94563 Watch the Town Hall Here: https://www.facebook.com/RepMarkDeSaulnier RSVP:https://desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp For more information on these events or to request ADA accommodations contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s offices in either Walnut Creek, Richmond, or Washington, DC. #
11.07.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) introduced bipartisan legislation to better inform pharmacists about prescription drug dispensing. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act would require federal agencies to develop and distribute materials to better educate pharmacists on when they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. These circumstances include the suspicion of fraud, forgery, or other forms of alteration. “Given that 75% of opioid abusers reported that their first exposure was a prescription drug, what happens at a pharmacy counter can help reduce addictions and save lives,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Pharmacists need the resources to know when and why they can decline to dispense controlled substances to people at risk of becoming addicted or those trying to abuse the system. I thank Congressman Carter for lending his expertise to fight the biggest public health crisis facing our nation.” “As a pharmacist for more than thirty years, I viewed addressing prescription drug abuse as part of my professional duty and I have continued this work in the United States House of Representatives,” said Representative Carter. “I know firsthand that in many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing. Now more than ever we need commonsense legislation like this to ensure pharmacists and health care professionals have the tools they need when faced with this situation. We must work together if we’re going to end this epidemic that is getting worse by the day and I thank Representative DeSaulnier for working with me on this critical issue.” “Opioid abuse is a national health crisis with devastating impacts on patients and communities,” said B. Douglas Hoey RPh, MBA, CEO of the National Community Pharmacists Association. “This crisis requires a multifaceted approach to adequately address it. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act recognizes that pharmacists play an important role in the health care system and have expertise that ought to be fully utilized in the effort to combat the opioid abuse crisis. NCPA is proud to support this legislation and we commend Representatives Carter and DeSaulnier for their leadership in introducing it.” The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act would require the Drug Enforcement Administration, in consultation with other federal agencies, to establish materials to train pharmacists, health care providers, and patients on best practices that ensure controlled substances are only dispensed when there is a valid prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical purpose. #
11.06.2017	Washington, DC –- Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Val Demings (FL-10) called on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s Intergovernmental Affairs Subcommittee Chairman, Gary Palmer, to include vendors of election machines in the committee’s upcoming hearing on “Cybersecurity of Voting Machines.” While the hearing is on voting machines, the Republican Majority has yet to invite a witness from a company that operates the machines or the software. “To effectively evaluate cyber threats facing voting machines and to safeguard elections, vendors that operate the software for the machines, which ultimately tabulate votes, need to be part of the discussion,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. Two months before the 2016 election, the Department of Homeland Security informed 21 states that Russian hackers attempted to breach their election systems. In Illinois, evidence was found that hackers were able to access and steal data on voters such as license numbers, and in several cases, the last four digits of their social security numbers. “The Right to Vote levels the playing field for all people living in this country, regardless of who you are, how much money you have in the bank, or where you live,” said Congresswoman Val Demings. “The bottom line to protecting the right to vote is protecting the integrity of our election systems, including verifying that companies that build or service machines, and those that program the ballots each year, are taking proper security precautions. It is imperative that those companies be included among the oversight conducted by the Committee.” “While election machines are generally not connected to the internet, the software they use on election day is vulnerable to hackers. When this software is compromised and voter data is stolen, as in Illinois, it is essential that we know what information was taken, who stole it, and for what purpose. The integrity of future elections depends on it,” concluded DeSaulnier. A copy of the letter can be found here. #
11.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the first day of the open enrollment period of Covered California. Beginning today through January 31, 2018, Californians can either sign up for or renew their health insurance for 2018 on Covered California’s website. “Despite the campaign to sabotage the ACA by President Trump and Republican Leadership, the insurance marketplaces are open and accepting new enrollees. In addition to holding dozens of votes to repeal the ACA and withholding health care funding, Republican Leadership has now made this year’s open enrollment shorter than ever before and complicated access to critical information. My offices are here to help. If anyone in Contra Costa County has questions about open enrollment or their health coverage, please call my office and we will connect you with resources to help you,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Due to the success of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), more than 5 million Californians have gained affordable health insurance coverage to protect against unexpected medical costs—bringing the uninsured rate in California to the lowest level in history. Congressman DeSaulnier’s Offices Walnut Creek Office 3100 Oak Road Suite 110 Walnut Creek, CA 94597 Phone: 925-933-2260Richmond Office 400 Civic Center Plaza Second Floor Richmond, CA 94804 Phone: 510-620-1000 #
10.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after voting against the Republican 2018 Budget, which narrowly passed by a vote of 216-to-212. “The Republican budget deal is an affront to the ideals of our nation. Despite billing themselves as deficit hawks, Republicans rallied around a bill that will add $1.5 trillion to the deficit and sets up tax legislation that puts everyday Americans last. For California, the proposal will eliminate critical state and local deductions that would result in an annual loss of over $20,000 for more than 44.7% of Contra Costa households alone. California already gives more in tax revenue than it receives, and to take money out of the pockets of hardworking families – many of whom greatly rely on their tax returns – is negligent and irresponsible,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
10.26.2017	Walnut Creek, CA -- Amid repeated attacks by the Trump Administration on our students and education system, today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the findings from his Education Listening Tour across Contra Costa County. During the tour, Mark visited every school district in California’s 11th Congressional District and met with students, teachers, parents, and administrators to hear directly about the education challenges facing the district. Congressman DeSaulnier, a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, produced a legislative plan based on ensuring students are prepared for success in their jobs, communities, and lives. “As a newly elected Member of Congress, I set out to hear what education stakeholders in our community believed high-quality, equitable education should look like. Spending this time in our schools allowed us to gauge the needs in real-time and informed our policy proposals,” explained Congressman DeSaulnier. “The Republican-controlled Congress, coupled with the agenda of the President and Secretary DeVos, represents one of the most uncertain and potentially damaging environments for public education in recent memory. In order to protect the recent progress we have made in education, we will have to defend public school funding while simultaneously ensuring that all schools are held accountable for both protecting the rights and freedoms of all students and providing a high quality education,” DeSaulnier continued. During the tour, Congressman DeSaulnier visited 18 schools, including: John Swett Elementary School, Canyon Elementary School, Buena Vista Elementary School, Stanley Middle School, Opportunity Junction, De Anza High School, Miramonte High School, Los Medanos Community College, Cal State East Bay, and Diablo Valley College. “It's very beneficial to have the support of our politicians in our schools like Congressman Mark DeSaulnier because it shows us youth that he truly cares and it gives him a chance to see firsthand what goes on in schools today, giving us youth an opportunity to have a voice especially for those that aren't of voting age,” said Claryssa Wilson, student at Antioch High School. "We were honored to have Congressman DeSaulnier spend time with students during their hands-on Science class. He expressed a keen interest in the Physical Science activities the 4th Graders were working on and shared with them the importance of STEM in their future and the future of California. Students were pleased to represent themselves as thinkers and problem-solvers to such an important person," said Deborah Walker, teacher at Buena Vista Elementary School. “It was important for participants at these community meetings to feel heard and to be responded to - and they did. Many spoke about how important it is for the schools, teachers, and students to know that their needs/concerns are being heard all way up to the federal level and being taken into consideration when the Congressman is drafting legislation and working with the Education and Workforce committee,” Superintendent Nellie Meyer. Congressman DeSaulnier’s Legislative Action Plan includes the following: K-12: Reaffirm the importance of all subjects, not just tested subjects Provide Special Education programs the resources necessary to support students Encourage teacher retention and recruitment Maintain and extend effective and robust career and technical education programs Use supportive school discipline practices to create encouraging, accommodating, and effective learning spaces, while preventing students from leaving school Incorporate higher order thinking skills into all classes Higher Education: Support all students in being able to afford a college education Increase access to college for all who are interested Support students in completing their degree programs Going forward, Congressman DeSaulnier intends to let this action plan guide his work in Congress and to actively pursue fixes to the hurdles students and schools face. This includes introducing legislation, giving students a voice in Congress, raising awareness through outreach about improving affordability, access, and completion for all students, and visiting career centers, manufacturers, and technology firms in order to connect the workplace skills to curriculum—setting students up for success as they enter the workforce. “Our education system ought to prepare students to thrive economically, socially, and emotionally in our complex global society. My hope is robust investment in education will translate to a society that demands evidence and data, rather than ideology. As President James Madison once quipped, ‘knowledge will forever govern ignorance; and a people who mean to be their own governors must arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives.’ Ensuring high-quality, affordable education for all today will translate to the highly productive workforce of tomorrow,” DeSaulnier concluded. A copy of Congressman DeSaulnier’s full Education Listening Tour report can be accessed here. Legislative efforts introduced by Congressman DeSaulnier are listed below: Improving Access to Higher Education Act: First-ever comprehensive legislation specifically addressing the needs of students with disabilities in higher education. This bill would promote college access and completion for students with disabilities. Family Engagement in Education Act: Awards grants to nonprofits for establishing Family Engagement Centers, while requiring states to establish plans related to strengthening family engagement in education. Research is clear that when a family participates in a child’s education, the child is more successful. Much of this bill was included in legislation that later became law. Pell Grant Flexibility Act: Relieves the tax burden students experience when using Pell Grant funding to pay for non-tuition, college-related expenses. As we have explored, accessing higher education relies heavily on being able to afford housing, transportation, childcare, and food. Protecting Student Athletes From Concussions Act: Requires local education agencies to create and carry out a concussion safety and management plan to decrease the number of concussions sustained and prevent any student who has sustained a concussion from rejoining their sport’s team until their safety has been assured. The lack of awareness surrounding concussions and the long-term damage that can be done to students’ cognitive abilities must be addressed. Student Borrower Fairness Act: Ensures that the interest rates on federal student loans are no greater than the interest rates that the Federal Reserve offers to banks. The federal government should not be making money on the backs of our students. #
10.19.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Democratic Members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Representatives, Jim Cooper (TN-05), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), and Matt Cartwright (PA-17), sent a letter to the Acting Director of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) demanding answers about the agency’s failure to disclose its concerns about efforts that would make it easier for drug distributors to break the law. The letter comes on the heels of the troubling reports by The Washington Post and 60 Minutes that former high ranking DEA officials authored and deceptively marketed legislation that undermines the agency’s ability to prevent companies from filling suspicious orders for large quantities of opioids. “The DEA, charged with enforcing our nation’s drug laws, has not prevented the flow of opioids that posed an ‘imminent danger’ to communities across the country. This was due in large part to former DEA officials who left the agency, went to work for pharmaceutical companies manufacturing opioids, and launched a lobbying effort to slow DEA enforcement of these narcotics. Congress has a duty and obligation to fully investigate what happened, and we are calling on DEA to produce information detailing its interactions with Congress and the Administration, and disclose all ‘revolving door’ relationships between DEA and the pharmaceutical industry over the last 10 years,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The full text of the letter can be found here. #
10.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after President Trump announced that he will withhold recertification of the Iran nuclear deal. “The 2015 nuclear deal between Iran, the United States, and other world leaders was made to slow down Iran’s nuclear capabilities, and we have strong evidence it is working with international inspectors certifying compliance on eight separate occasions since enactment. Prior to the agreement, Iran could build a nuclear weapon in about a month, but it would now take them almost a year. Failing to recertify the deal makes Iran a bigger threat to the region and the world. President Trump is telling our allies we are not a reliable partner, and destroying the credibility of the United States around the globe. This is even more troubling as we face heightened concerns in North Korea that call for trustworthy and delicate diplomacy.” #
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after President Trump signed an executive order undermining the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “This is yet another attack by President Trump to undermine the success and stability of the ACA. This irresponsible decision will make it easier for insurance companies to discriminate against Americans with pre-existing conditions and take advantage of those most in need of affordable, comprehensive health coverage. It is appalling that this Administration, despite public opposition, is prioritizing reckless campaign promises over working on behalf of the American people to improve our health care system.” #
10.11.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced the Restore Veterans’ Compensation Act of 2017, legislation that would prevent the federal government from recouping separation pay from veterans who later qualify for VA disability benefits. The bill also makes other changes to the Department of Defense’s recoupment policies to make them fairer to veterans. Many service members qualify for separation pay when they depart the military—it’s a form of compensation for those with more than six years of service who meet reenlistment requirements but are not allowed to reenlist. It’s also used to incentivize service members to depart the military when the Pentagon is working to downsize the force. Unfortunately, under current law, veterans are required to pay back separation pay if they later become eligible for VA disability benefits or DOD retirement pay. The Restore Veterans’ Compensation Act bill would: No longer allow for the recoupment of separation pay from veterans who later become eligible for VA disability benefits because the two compensate for different things—workplace injuries (disability benefits) versus time served (separation pay); Ensure retirees repay the net amount of separation pay instead of the gross amount to prevent the federal government from recouping more than the veteran received; and, Change the recoupment rate to 25 percent of a veterans’ paycheck instead of the current 40 percent. “When Americans sign up to protect our country, we make a commitment to honor and support their service – but for nearly 25,000 veterans that promise has been broken. Over $400 million in disability benefits have been withheld or even taken back from veterans to ‘make up’ for their separation pay, causing military families financial insecurity. I am proud to partner with my colleagues Representatives Gallego and Jones to make right on this promise and to give our veterans the compensation they deserve for the sacrifices they’ve made,” said Rep. DeSaulnier. “As a Marine Corps combat veteran, I believe it’s manifestly unfair that veterans who receive VA disability benefits face the unwarranted recoupment of their separation pay,” said Rep. Gallego. “They are completely unrelated – VA disability benefits compensate for workplace injuries while separation pay compensates for time served. This policy simply makes no sense and Congress has a responsibility to our brave veterans to fix it.” “This is an injustice! Right now, an honorable veteran can be forced to return large portions of his or her separation pay if found eligible for VA disability benefits or military retirement pay. These are completely separate payments, and our courageous veterans should not be shortchanged for being injured in the line of duty,” said Rep. Jones. “Thank you Represenatives Gallego and DeSaulnier for introducing legislation to put an end to this disparity.” The Restore Veterans’ Compensation Act builds upon a measure Representatives DeSaulnier and Jones successfully included in the National Defense Authorization Act for FY17 to require that each separating servicemember is provided with financial transparency and informed of the possible conflict between separation and disability pay. #
10.11.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host his 50th town hall and mobile district office hour since coming to Congress in January of 2015. The town hall meeting will be held at the Shadelands Art Center on Monday, October 16th at 6:00 p.m. in Walnut Creek. “Town halls are one of my favorite ways to interact with constituents,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “There is something special about traveling the district and hearing directly from residents in their neighborhoods—it is a direct display of democracy at work.” Residents are invited to join Congressman DeSaulnier to listen to a presentation and legislative update. During the town hall constituents will have an opportunity to ask questions, share their opinions on actions taken by this Administration, and discuss issues import to our community. Walnut Creek Town Hall Shadelands Arts Center 111 North Wiget Lane Walnut Creek, CA 94598 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. (Door Open at 5:30 p.m.) Please RSVP online at www.desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
10.06.2017	Washington, DC – Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Doug LaMalfa (CA-01) issued the following statement after introducing H.R. 3907, the Federal Wildland Firefighter Recognition Act. This bill will direct the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to allow those who risk their lives fighting wildfires to be called “Wildland Firefighters.” “Each year in California and around the country dedicated men and women put themselves in harm’s way to prevent, prepare for, and help fight the spread of wildfires. As thousands of acres currently burn in California, these specialized public servants deserve to be appropriately recognized as ‘Wildland Firefighters’ for helping to protect our landscape and the surrounding communities,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Due to misguided forestry management practices that don’t allow for thinning and other prevention strategies, our forests are being consumed by wildfires at an alarming rate. Each year, thousands of firefighters risk their lives to protect our forests and property from the spread of these fires. They are known by titles such as ‘Wildland Technician’ and ‘Forestry Technician’ – vague terms that don’t reflect the scope of their duties. H.R. 3907 ensures these men and women are recognized by the proper title and terminology. When a destructive fire spreads quickly through woodlands, we call it a wildfire. When someone fights it, they deserve to be called a Wildland Firefighter,” said Congressman LaMalfa. Since their establishment in 1910, 1,086 wildland firefighters have died protecting American homes, forests and National Parks from wildfires. Despite their dedication, these brave men and women are not able to call themselves Wildland Firefighters. Federal agencies instead use a variety of bureaucratic terms that do not reflect the dangerous work that these personnel do, such as “Wildland Technician” and “Forestry Technician.” H.R. 3907 directs OPM to develop a separate and distinct Wildland Firefighter occupational series for employees whose main duties and responsibilities are preparing for, reducing fuels for, and the suppression of wildfires. #
10.04.2017	Washington, DC – Today, as we recognize National Smart Cities Week, U.S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Members Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Lloyd Smucker (R-PA) announced bipartisan legislation that would establish $100 million in new grant funding for cities to invest in and use innovative technologies and solutions for the purpose of improving transportation and mobility. The Moving FIRST Act (H.R. 3901) was introduced to build upon the Department of Transportation’s Smart Cities Challenge, by increasing the funding available and making it an annual grant opportunity. “Seventy five percent of all Americans are expected to live in urban areas by 2050. We need to invest in the best way to move our people and our goods in ways that reduce congestion, improve public health, and are tailored to the needs of our communities. We’ve already seen how smart technologies succeed in the Bay Area and California, and I am proud to partner with my colleague Representative Smucker to create grant opportunities for cities across the nation, and of all sizes, to advance cutting edge technologies,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “This week is National Smart Cities Week – a perfect time to refocus our efforts in support of innovative and creative solutions to help our cities work better,” said Congressman Smucker. “Investments in smart infrastructure projects help move people to job centers, products to market, and connect economic hubs. Expanding initiatives like the Smart Cities Challenge will help kick start improvements in transit and connectivity in cities like Lancaster and Reading. I am glad to work with Rep. DeSaulnier to introduce the Moving FIRST Act and I look forward to continuing my work to improve our nation’s infrastructure.” H.R. 3901 would make annual grant awards available to communities of all different sizes which seek to advance projects like autonomous vehicle technology and sensor-based infrastructure in order to meet the transportation challenges they face. Specifically, the bill establishes the Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Challenge Grant, which will annually award: A large city with up to $50 million in grant funding A mid-sized city with up to $50 million in grant funding Two rural communities or regional partnerships with up to $20 million in grant funding or 20% of the total funds available Senators Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV) and Richard Burr (R-NC) introduced companion legislation, S. 1809, in the Senate. National Smart Cities Week brings together city leaders, innovative companies, and policymakers to engage in a national dialogue to better understand and prepare for the ways new technologies will impact the ‘city of the future.’ #
10.03.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to the Trump Administration and Republican leaders who claim, it is not time to engage in the gun debate. “The outright refusal of the Trump Administration and Republican leaders to discuss public safety and gun violence in America – following the largest mass shooting in recent history – shows how tight a grip the NRA has on the presidency and Congress. “It is time to put public safety above politics, and engage in an immediate and rational conversation about gun violence. These conversations can take place in public or private committee sessions, with or without the NRA, or on the floor of the House of Representatives, but to do nothing fails the 59 innocent victims who lost their lives yesterday and the nearly 12,000 victims whose lives are taken by a firearm each year in America.” #
09.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued the following statement in response to reports that at least six of President Trump’s closest advisers used private email addresses to discuss official White House matters. “Following a campaign full of demands to ‘lock her up,’ the hypocrisy of these reports is jaw dropping. If it is true that Jared Kushner, among other top White House advisers, has been using a private email account, then it is apparent that this White House deliberately misled Congress. I support the Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s efforts to ensure there is transparency and accountability within the Trump Administration, which is all too often shrouded in misinformation, smear tactics, and lies.” #
09.19.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement congratulating the City of San Pablo on winning the 2017 Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) ‘Culture of Health Prize.’ The RWJF Culture of Health Prize awards communities that demonstrate a commitment to improving health outcomes for all, especially those facing the greatest adversity, by developing powerful local partnerships and leveraging resources. The City of San Pablo was selected from more than 200 applicants across the country, and was awarded $25,000 to continue its pursuit of advancing the health and well-being of the community. “I am incredibly proud of the hard work and dedication San Pablo has demonstrated in caring for the overall well-being of its residents. Through specific and targeted investments in workforce training, community support, and youth recreation and services—like the local police department investing personal resources to help educate and empower young people—San Pablo is serving as a role model for communities across California and nationwide. It is an honor to represent San Pablo in Congress, and I look forward to witnessing the long term results of this work in the coming years,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Winning communities, like San Pablo, demonstrated excellence in six areas, including cultivating a shared belief in the importance of equal opportunity health, harnessing the collective power of community partnerships, and measuring and sharing health progress and results. To learn more about San Pablo’s story and how the community is caring for its residents click here. #
09.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Legislation authored by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) to rename the Nevin Avenue Post Office in Richmond, California as the “Harold D. McCraw, Sr., Post Office Building” (H.R. 606) unanimously passed out of the Oversight and Government and Reform Committee. This effort does not impact the current process to sell the Nevin Avenue post office building, which is being pursued by the United States Postal Service (USPS). Mark will continue to push for the passage of the renaming legislation in tandem with his efforts to save the post office building from being sold. “Harold D. McCraw Sr. embodied the culture of the Richmond community—he was hardworking, compassionate, and dedicated. Renaming the Nevin Avenue Post Office in his honor is a fitting tribute to his service to the USPS and the community. As the Richmond community wrestles with the potential sale and closure of this post office, the committee’s approval of this bill is a welcome development. I am committed to pushing for the renaming of the building, and will fight alongside Mayor Butt and the entire community to try to save the post office,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Harold McCraw helped ensure that African Americans had opportunities for advancement and now we must ensure that this facility remains in place as a critical public resource,” said Richmond Mayor Tom Butt. “I hope McCraw’s leadership will be forever recognized at the Downtown Richmond Post Office. Along with Congressman DeSaulnier we will make every effort to prevent an injustice to our residents and keep the post office open.” “I’m overjoyed by the news, it’s been a long journey, and my brother is well deserving of this honor. I thank Congressman DeSaulnier for his continued pursuit of renaming the Nevin Avenue Post Office after my brother, and I am also thankful for the work the Congressman, Mayor Tom Butt and the community of Richmond are doing to save the post office from closure—it was a place my brother truly loved,” said Annie Jones, sister of Harold D. McCraw. Harold D. McCraw, Sr. was a distinguished and dedicated civil servant, who began working for the Richmond Post Office in 1965 and served the United States Postal Service for 45 years. He was an active member of the National Association of Postmasters of the United States (NAPUS), and began the East Bay Chapter. McCraw not only served in his job as Richmond Postmaster, but was also an active member of the Richmond community, serving on various boards and commissions. He served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Richmond Community Social Services Corporation, where he facilitated the development of a child care facility that has expanded to five locations and cares for hundreds of children. Harold’s contributions helped make the community of Richmond a more just and fair place to live. #
09.08.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host two upcoming “Service Academy Nights” in Pleasant Hill and Richmond. All students living in the Eleventh Congressional District of California who would like to apply to one of the nation’s premier service academies are invited to attend. At each of the events, service academy representatives will be on hand to speak with interested students, including members from the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy. Service academy representatives will give presentations, and Congressman DeSaulnier’s staff will provide a briefing on the nomination process. Students who wish to apply to a service academy must ensure a completed application is received by Congressman DeSaulnier’s office no later than October 31, 2017. Richmond Service Academy Night Thursday, September 14, 2017 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Richmond City Council Chambers 440 Civic Center Plaza First Floor Richmond, CA 94804Pleasant Hill Service Academy Night Thursday, September 28, 2017 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. Diablo Valley CollegeThe Diablo Room, 3rd Floor HFS Building 321 Golf Club Road Pleasant Hill, CA 94523Details: A map of DVC’s campus can be found here. For more information on applying to any of the service academies or to RSVP, please contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office at ca11.rsvp@mail.house.gov or (925) 933-2660. #
09.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the deal struck between President Trump and Democrats to package nearly $8 billion of hurricane and disaster relief money with a three-month extension of government funding and increase in the debt ceiling, which passed the House today by a vote of 316-to-90. “The essence of governing, often times requires a willingness to compromise and work with your adversaries. The deal struck this week between Leaders Pelosi and Schumer with President Trump illustrates that the Democratic Party wants to govern for the good of the American people. Unlike the Republican Party, which controls the House, Senate, and the Presidency, Democrats—if given the opportunity—are willing to compromise without neglecting our core values.” #
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s back and forth position on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and House Republican efforts to block a vote on the bipartisan Dream Act (H.R. 3440), which would provide a pathway to permanent residency for DACA recipients. “President Trump’s decision to end DACA is cowardly, heartless, and irresponsible. Over the past five years, nearly 800,000 young people put their trust in our government, came forward, and registered in order to contribute to the country they love and call home. These young people attend college, hold jobs in our communities, pay taxes, and some even serve in our military. The President’s action would abandon these young people—sending them back to countries they do not remember, without a job, and often without knowledge of the language spoken. “Through a series of mixed messages, President Trump is eliciting fear in DACA recipients. As a candidate, Trump campaigned on ending DACA, but as a newly elected President he assured DACA recipients they had no reason to worry. This week, he issued a decision to end the DACA program, but eight hours later tweeted that he would revisit the issue—proving again that he is the ‘Flip-Flopper in Chief.’ It is time for Donald Trump to stop playing to his base and be the President of the United States. “As we continue to press Republican leadership to pass the Dream Act, anyone living in our Congressional District who is fearful of anti-DACA actions should contact my office in either Richmond or Walnut Creek, and we will do everything we can to tell your story, fight for you, and ensure you are protected,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Statistics on DACA Recipients Under DACA, average hourly wages rose by 69 percent, translating to more tax revenue for cities, states, and the country 16 percent of DACA recipients bought houses 5 percent of DACA recipients started businesses At least 72 percent of top 25 Fortune 500 companies employ DACA beneficiaries DACA beneficiaries will contribute $460.3 billion to the U.S. gross domestic product over the next decade—economic growth that would be lost were DACA to be eliminated #
08.23.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will meet one-on-one with constituents during district office hours in Walnut Creek on Saturday, August 26, 2017 from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Since coming to Congress in 2015, Mark has hosted 48 town halls and Mobile District Office hours throughout Contra Costa County. During the office hours, Congressman DeSaulnier will be available to share thoughts, answer questions on federal legislation, and assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s District Office Hours When: Saturday, August 26th from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Where: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Walnut Creek Office 3100 Oak Road, Suite 110, Walnut Creek, CA 94597 Details: First-come, first-served. No appointment necessary. Event is open to all residents of California’s 11th congressional district. For more Information: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
08.15.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after President Trump reiterated his belief that “both sides” were to blame for the violence in Charlottesville. “By once again attempting to placate evil the President surrendered what little moral authority he had left. It was not long ago that millions of Americans put their lives on the line to fight fascism and white supremacy. Failing to condemn those who espouse the same worldviews that Americans died fighting against is sacrilege, and undermines the essence of America.” #
08.02.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host town hall meetings in Concord and Pittsburg during the month of August. Since assuming office in 2015, Mark has hosted 46 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. Congressman DeSaulnier invites residents to attend one of his upcoming town halls to listen to a presentation and legislative update. During the town hall constituents will have an opportunity to ask questions, share their opinions on actions taken by the Administration, and discuss issues important to their communities. Concord Town Hall Wednesday, August 9, 2017 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Concord High School, Multi-Purpose Room 4200 Concord Blvd. Concord, CA 94521Pittsburg Town Hall Monday, August 14, 2017 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Pittsburg Senior Center 300 Presidio Ln. Pittsburg, CA 94565 Please RSVP online at www.desaulnier.house.gov/town-hall-rsvp or call 925-933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
07.26.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host the third annual Congressional App Challenge (CAC) for California’s 11th District, an app coding competition for U.S. high school students. High school students who live or attend school in California’s 11th Congressional District are invited to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. “The Congressional App Challenge gives students the opportunity to strengthen and demonstrate their coding skills. I am continually impressed by the talent and ingenuity of our high school students, and look forward to seeing this year’s unique submissions. Students from across the district are invited to join their peers nationwide in showcasing the creativity of our young programmers,” said Congressman DeSaulnier The Challenge submission period will run from July 26, 2017 through November 1, 2017. Congressman DeSaulnier will recognize the submissions at a special ceremony in his District Office, and the winner will be selected by a panel of local judges who work within the academic, software, and entrepreneurial fields. The winning app from California’s 11th Congressional District will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol and featured on the House of Representatives website with the winning apps from other Congressional districts. Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is a national event intended to engage students' creativity and encourage their participation in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) fields. By recognizing our nation's young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The competition has continued to grow, with more than 2,000 student participants last year. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit desaulnier.house.gov/congressional-app-challenge. #
07.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the below statement in response to President Trump’s decision to no longer allow transgender Americans to serve in any capacity in the U.S. military. “All people who are courageous enough to serve in our Armed Forces, regardless of gender identity, should have the full support of the President of the United States and the entire nation. Rather than unifying the country, President Trump is playing solely to his base—weakening our military and our morality. It is hypocritical that the President is willing to disparage brave Americans over minimal spending on health services, while failing to insist on a full audit of the $658 billion Department of Defense budget, which was recently found to have over $125 billion of identified bureaucratic waste.” #
07.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, on the 73rd anniversary of the Port Chicago tragedy, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Barbara Lee (CA-13) introduced a House Resolution calling for the public exoneration of the Port Chicago 50. The resolution is part of their ongoing effort to bring attention to the injustice suffered by the Port Chicago 50, a group of African American sailors who were wrongly charged with mutiny following the deadliest home front disaster of World War II at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine in California. After experiencing segregation in the Navy, 435 African American munitions sailors, who were not properly trained or supported, were killed or injured when a cargo vessel exploded. This incident accounted for more than 15 percent of all African American Naval casualties during WWII. When 50 of these men understandably refused to return to the unsafe working conditions that killed their fellow sailors, they were discriminately charged and convicted of mutiny. “For seventy-three years the names of 50 brave sailors have been sullied by the racial discrimination they experienced during their service in World War II,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “Given today’s political climate, there is no better moment in America to unite against discrimination and inequality. While we cannot erase the memories of the past, we can express our gratitude for the Port Chicago 50 and ultimately set the record straight through exoneration. An important step in healing our country is recognizing and correcting our past mistakes.” “As the daughter of a veteran, I wholeheartedly appreciate the sacrifice made by the men and women who bravely serve to protect our freedom. That is why we must exonerate the 50 African-American sailors, who boldly stood against discrimination and refused to return to unsafe work conditions,” said Congresswoman Lee. “It’s past time to honor them, not only for their pivotal role in the World War II home front effort, but also for their unwavering commitment for justice. I am grateful to Congressman DeSaulnier for his staying the course on this vitally important issue.” Representatives DeSaulnier and Lee first introduced this resolution last Congress, and jointly sent a letter to former President Obama requesting he acknowledge the injustice suffered by these sailors and remove these racially biased convictions from their records. Additionally, Congressman DeSaulnier successfully included a provision to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which required the Navy to investigate the circumstances surrounding the treatment of sailors at Port Chicago. DeSaulnier has also called upon the Smithsonian Institution to include information about the Port Chicago 50 in the new National Museum of African American History and Culture. #
07.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – In response to last week’s House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which broke longstanding budget caps on defense spending, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced the introduction of the Department of Defense Waste Reduction Act (H.R. 2367). Designed to address reckless spending at the Department of Defense (DoD), this bill would prevent the DoD from receiving any additional funding until wasteful spending practices within the Department are addressed. A report by the Washington Post exposed that the Pentagon buried an internal study that identified $125 billion in bureaucratic waste. The study, which was conducted by the Defense Business Board (DBB), outlined a “clear path” for the DoD to save the identified funding without requiring layoffs or military personnel reductions. “Despite never completing a full audit and clear evidence of reckless spending at the DoD, last week the House authorized a bloated defense spending bill, which exceeds spending caps by $72 billion. Such an increase is troubling, since the DBB report could be just the first glimpse into a myriad of waste, fraud, and abuses. We must insist on transparency and accountability in our government agencies, and ensure taxpayer dollars are judiciously spent. This bill would do just that by decreasing the staggering cost to taxpayers, all while keeping our military manpower and readiness intact,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The Department of Defense Waste Reduction Act would require the DoD to implement the cost-saving recommendations laid out in the DBB report or submit justifications to Congress for not doing so before Congress can provide any funds over their authorized level, set by the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. Following the Washington Post exposé, Congressman DeSaulnier joined Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14) in calling for Congressional hearings to investigate DoD spending practices. During an Oversight and Government Reform hearing on the internal study, DeSaulnier questioned members of the DBB about the findings in the report and its subsequent cover up. #
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) was joined by Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD-05), and Representatives James Langevin (RI-02) and Jared Huffman (CA-02) in introducing the Improving Access to Higher Education Act (H.R. 3199). This bill, which is part of the ‘Aim Higher’ initiative, would fully address the needs of students with disabilities, and would help improve college access and completion. “This first of its kind legislation takes a comprehensive approach to providing students and institutions with improved training, greater resources, and expanded services—bringing us one step closer to ensuring that all Americans have the opportunity to earn a degree, find a job, and achieve the American Dream. I am honored to join Ranking Member Scott and my colleagues in spearheading this important effort for our students,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Since the passing of the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) – federal law has been clear that individuals with disabilities must have equitable access to education,” said Ranking Member Scott. “Thanks to the IDEA and the ADA, we have more students with disabilities graduating from high school than ever before. This bill will ensure the HEA is living up to the promise of the ADA and allowing all students to have equal access to higher education so they can fully participate in society.” “I thank Reps. DeSaulnier, Scott, Langevin, and Huffman for introducing the Improving Access to Higher Education Act to make higher education more accessible for students with differing abilities,” said Whip Hoyer. “As the lead House sponsor of the Americans with Disabilities Act, I am strongly committed to ensuring that all of our people can live up to their full potential. This bill will help more of our students do so by addressing affordability, accessibility, and completion of higher education degrees that will prepare them for well-paying jobs and opportunities.” “Every student has the right to a quality education,” said Congressman Jared Huffman. “For students with disabilities in college, a quality education means providing an environment that fosters academic growth and gives them the individualized tools that they need to succeed. Unfortunately, college administrators and faculty face many challenges in providing these essential accommodations and instructional supports. The Improving Access to Higher Education Act will help level the playing field for students with disabilities, allowing every student to access the education and skills needed to live a meaningful and independent life.” “Students with disabilities already face tremendous challenges inside and outside of the classroom, but gaining access to a quality postsecondary education shouldn’t be one of them,” Rep. Langevin said. “This bill will provide students with disabilities greater educational opportunities in preparation for a bright future in the workforce. The doors to higher education should be open for all students, and I’m proud to join my colleagues in leading a bill that will foster more inclusive curricula and learning environments.” In 2005, just 46 percent of students with disabilities who graduated from high school enrolled in postsecondary education, with only 40 percent of those students going on to finish a degree or receive a work certificate within eight years. For students with disabilities who enroll in a four year institution, odds of completing a degree fall to just 34 percent. The Improving Access to Higher Education Act aims to address this gap in completion rates. Specifically, the Improving Access to Higher Education Act would: Instruct institutions to provide comprehensive services to students with disabilities, such as personalized study plans, integrated housing among their peers, and partnerships with local education agencies Improve professional development and technical assistance to faculty and staff Develop best practices for institutions to integrate instructional materials and technology in the classroom Require institutions collect data assessing the success of the services provided to students with disabilities Incentivize institutions to create an Office of Accessibility to best address the needs of students receiving disability services Create two new $10 million grants to establish a National Teacher Assistance Center and National Coordinating Center for Inclusion of Students with Intellectual Disabilities Organizations supporting the Improving Access to Higher Education Act includes: Teacher Education Division of CEC, Association of University Centers on Disability, American Foundation for the Blind, Higher Education Consortium for Special Education, National Council for Learning Disabilities, National Down Syndrome Congress, The Arc, and National Association of State Directors of Special Education. The ‘Aim Higher’ initiative, is a series of bills which would provide students with the ability to access, afford, and complete a postsecondary degree, leading to a good-paying job. #
07.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Mark DeSaulnier’s (CA-11) bill to expand the historic site that celebrates the life of John Muir in Martinez, CA. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act (H.R. 1719) would add an additional 44 acres of donated land to the park to improve access and preserve the land for generations to come. The bill passed the House by a vote of 401-to-15 and now moves to the Senate for consideration. “John Muir, the father of our National Park Service, championed the revolutionary idea that America’s wild spaces ought to be preserved for all to enjoy. As a nature-lover and proud Californian, it is an honor to lead this effort as a tribute to John Muir. It is my hope that expanding the site where Muir drew inspiration will allow residents to further enjoy the beauty of the East Bay. I thank the John Muir Land Trust for its stewardship and protection of John Muir’s legacy,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Our sincere thanks go out to Congressman DeSaulnier for such critical legislation. Muir often walked this land with his two daughters, to admire the coast live oak that grow there, as well as the annual wildflowers that punctuate its grassy hillsides. Expansion of the John Muir Historic Site will forever protect this beautiful property and allow future generations to share in the same delights as Muir’s daughters,” said Linus Eukel, Executive Director of John Muir Land Trust. Currently, the John Muir National Historic Site spans 330 acres of Contra Costa County, and includes the home where Muir lived and wrote. The parcel of land being donated is located on the south side of Mount Wanda. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act would authorize the National Park Service to acquire land that is being donated by the John Muir Land Trust. Since the parcel of land being donated by the trust exceeds the size the National Park Service is permitted to acquire administratively, Congressional approval is needed. Senator Kamala Harris has introduced companion legislation in the Senate. Congressman DeSaulnier first introduced this bill last Congress, where it passed the House, but was not considered in the Senate. This effort was first spearheaded by former Congressman George Miller, who previously represented California’s 11th Congressional District. #
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its report on the Senate version of Trumpcare. “The central tenant of the Hippocratic oath: first do no harm – Primum non nocere – should apply not only to medical professionals, but to Members of Congress. My Republican colleagues ought to ask themselves: Is this the America they want to leave for their children? The non-partisan, independent CBO review confirms that 22 million Americans will be kicked off their insurance and millions could see their premiums increase by up to 20 percent next year. In the U.S. approximately 64 percent of Americans in nursing homes are dependent on Medicaid and would be put at risk under the Republican plan. Experts expect half a million working families would lose assistance to pay for premiums; more than 15 million cancer survivors would be forced to pay thousands more for the coverage they need; 33 million children would lose their chance at a healthy future; and more than 200,000 Americans would die.”
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after Senate Republican Leadership released their health care bill, the Better Care Reconciliation Act. The Senate is expected to vote on the bill next week. “As one Member of Congress who would like to engage in an open, bipartisan, and constructive health care debate, the Senate bill is a disappointment and echoes the already damaging bill that passed the House of Representatives last month. Under the Republican bill, Americans would pay more money for less coverage, and millions of people – especially among the 69 million currently covered by Medicaid – could be left without health insurance. Cutting Medicaid is an assault on 6 million seniors, will keep 33 million parents up at night worrying about how to care for their children, abandons 10 million Americans living with disabilities, and impacts 1.75 million veterans. The Republican plan also targets people 50 to 64 by forcing them to pay up to five times more than what others pay for health coverage, regardless of how healthy they are. Equally disturbing is that anyone with pre-existing conditions is no longer guaranteed coverage as states are empowered to allow insurance companies to determine which treatments will be covered. After weeks of closed-door meetings with the pharmaceutical and health products industry, which spent $78 million in lobbying efforts during the first quarter of this year, and employs ‘1,100 lobbyists or more than two for each Member of Congress’ according to the Center for Responsible Politics, it is no surprise that the Republican health care plan is a giant tax break for the wealthiest and sacrifices the health of our country to increase corporate profits. We should be strengthening our current health care system by working toward what every industrialized country in the world already provides its citizens – comprehensive health insurance coverage for all .” #
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) joined with Congressman Lou Barletta (R-PA) to reintroduce the bipartisan School Food Modernization Act today, which would help local schools replace outdated kitchen equipment in an effort to provide healthy and nutritious meals to students. A national survey indicates that 88 percent of school districts need at least one piece of new kitchen equipment, and 55 percent require infrastructure changes. “We have made important strides encouraging more nutritious food for our students, but too often school kitchen equipment is outdated, making it difficult to adequately prepare healthy options. Research shows that there is a statically significant increase in test scores among students who consume healthier meals. It is time we put our money where our mouths are, and give our schools the resources needed to serve healthier options that promote greater academic achievement,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “We need a permanent solution to ensure that our schools have the tools they need to serve our kids healthier meals,” Congressman Barletta said. “Too many of our nation’s schools have deep fryers when they really need walk-in refrigerators and freezers to keep fresh fruits and vegetables longer. They have microwaves meant to reheat pre-packaged foods when they really need something as simple as a knife and cutting board. By giving schools better access to modern kitchen equipment and infrastructure, while also strengthening workforce training, we do just that. It will result in improved focus in the classroom, and ultimately, a lifetime of healthier eating habits.”The School Food Modernization Act: Allows schools to participate in a loan assistance program from the U.S. Department of Agriculture to help them acquire new kitchen equipment and build new infrastructure. Schools would be eligible for federal guarantees up to 80 percent of the loan. Provides targeted grant assistance to give school administrators and food service directors seed money for less extensive infrastructure upgrades or purchases of high-quality, durable kitchen equipment such as commercial ovens, steamers, and stoves. Strengthens training and provides technical assistance to school food service personnel, many of whom need additional skills and expertise to prepare healthier meals. Increases Congressional oversight by requiring reports on the use of workforce training funds and the progress of the programs authorized within this bill. Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) introduced companion legislation in the Senate. In the House, Congressman Glen “G.T.” Thompson is also co-sponsoring the bill. Additionally, fifty organizations sent a letter to Congressmen DeSaulnier and Barletta and Senators Collins and Heitkamp in support of the bill. #
06.08.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on former FBI Director James Comey's testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Under oath and with America watching, Director Comey was delivered an honest, credible, and rational explanation of the unprecedented nine private interactions he had with President Trump. He built a strong case for possible collusion, and clearly exposed that the President lied about the motives behind his firing. He also confirmed that Russia launched a ‘massive effort’ to interfere with the United States election and advised ‘they’ll be back.’ We are at a critical point in history in which Congress has a moral authority to thoroughly investigate and get to the truth to both protect the American people and our Constitution,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
06.07.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, issued the following statement on former FBI Director James Comey's written testimony for the Senate Intelligence Committee hearing scheduled for tomorrow. “Every American citizen should read former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony. Throughout his life, Trump has never believed boundaries apply to him. Would an innocent person call the Director of the FBI six times and initiate three private, in-person meetings over the course of four months? Conversely, President Obama never spoke to the FBI Director on the phone and met with him alone, in-person twice in eight years. At tomorrow’s hearing, I call on my Republican colleagues to put country before party and to help Congress get to the bottom of what happened during the 2016 Presidential Campaign. History will hold accountable those who are silent,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. A full copy of former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony can be found here. #
06.01.2017	Washington, DC - Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after President Trump announced that he will withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement. “Withdrawing from the Paris Climate Agreement—when climate change is irrefutable—is a brazen attack by President Trump on our planet, public health, and scientific fact. The President’s justification that this is an economic decision is irresponsible and ill-informed. The renewable energy industry is growing at least 10 times faster than any other industry in our country. If the President’s arguments were true, you would see the California economy tanking and jobs fleeing the state because of our strong environmental standards. Instead, these standards have helped grow our economy to the sixth largest in the world. Despite today’s setback, California and the countries remaining in the agreement will lead the world in combatting pollution and promoting innovative green technologies that are the way of the future. President Trump has chosen to isolate the United States from the rest of the world, and has turned his back on our workers, our children, and the health of our planet, ” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
05.24.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its updated report on the Trumpcare bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives on May 4, 2017. “Earlier this month, the Republican Majority orchestrated a vote on Trumpcare before an accurate cost estimate of the bill was available for Americans and Members of Congress. Why? Because numbers never lie, and the President and Leadership cared more about passing the bill than its impact. Under Trumpcare, everyday Americans, seniors, and those who are struggling to make ends meet will see their premiums increase, coverage diminish, and out-of-pocket expenses skyrocket. The true test of a society is not how we treat those with means, but how we care for those who are in need – whether sick, elderly, or at a disadvantage. Trumpcare would eviscerate coverage for the most vulnerable among us; it is morally bankrupt.” Trumpcare by the numbers: $31 billion of additional spending would result in only 1 million more covered By 2026, 23 million Americans would lose health coverage 51 million Americans under the age of 65 would be uninsured by 2026, as compared to 28 millioin under the ACA In states requesting waivers, premiums for low-income, elderly Americans would skyrocket by 800% Premiums for those individuals not covered by their employer, Medicare, or Medicaid would increase by 15% to 20%. $834 billion in cuts would be made Medicaid The full CBO report can be found here. #
05.24.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host an immigration town hall meeting and resource fair in Richmond on Thursday, June 1st at 6:00 p.m. A panel of local experts will be on hand to discuss federal immigration policy reform, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), and President Trump’s recent executive orders on immigration. Residents are invited to join Congressman DeSaulnier for a town hall meeting to listen to presentations from panelists, learn about community resources, ask questions, and share thoughts on federal immigration issues. Congressman DeSaulnier will also discuss how his office can assist constituents in navigating the immigration process. Town Hall Details: Thursday, June 1, 2017 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. The Latina Center (Enter Through Barrett Avenue Christian Church) 3701 Barrett Avenue Richmond, CA 94805Panelists Include: Local Immigration Attorney Consulate General of México Richmond Police Department Catholic Charities of the East Bay Please RSVP to CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (510) 620-1000. For more information or to request ADA accommodations or translation services, please contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s Richmond office. #
05.23.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host a town hall meeting in Moraga on Tuesday, May 30th at 6:30 p.m. Since taking office in 2015, Mark has hosted 43 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. Residents are invited to join Congressman DeSaulnier for a town hall meeting to listen to a legislative update, to ask questions, and to share thoughts on issues of importance. Congressman DeSaulnier will also discuss the broad range of constituent services his office can provide. Moraga Town Hall Tuesday, May 30, 2017 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Saint Mary’s College, Soda Center 1928 St. Mary’s Road Moraga, CA 94556 Please RSVP to CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations, contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s Walnut Creek office. #
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s reckless 2018 Proposed Budget.“President Trump’s budget would make draconian cuts to investments in lifesaving medical research, environmental protections, and workforce training; and proposes slashing $1 trillion from critical programs that provide health care, student loan protections, and nutrition assistance to millions of low-income Americans. By valuing massive tax cuts for corporations and the wealthy and moving an additional $52 billion to defense spending, the priorities outlined in this budget demonstrate just how out of touch the President is with the American people. The Trump budget is already drawing criticism from many of my Republican colleagues, and I urge them to reject this reckless proposal and work with Democrats to craft a responsible plan that strengthens America at home and abroad,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after former FBI Director Robert Mueller was appointed special counsel to oversee the investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. “The appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller to special counsel is a significant step in the investigation into President Trump’s campaign and connections to Russia, and offers reassurance that our government institutions are holding up under enormous pressure. Based on his reputation, I expect Director Mueller to pursue the investigation in a professional manner and to follow the facts wherever they may lead. It remains imperative that Congress assert its constitutional responsibility by conducting its own investigation to run parallel with the special counsel. It is long past time for Republican leadership to stop whistling past the graveyard, put the needs of our country first, and get to the bottom of this very serious matter.” #
05.17.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to reports that President Trump asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey to shut down the federal investigation into former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn. “We are at a critical moment in our nation’s history. The reported attempt by President Trump to put an end to the FBI’s investigation into Michael Flynn is an inappropriate abuse of power and reason for grave concern. In order to maintain faith in our democracy and trust in our government, it is essential that Republicans and Democrats set aside party affiliation and seek answers to the many questions plaguing this Administration and its connection to Russia. “I joined my Democratic colleagues on the House Oversight and Government Reform and Judiciary Committees to demand the immediate launch of a joint investigation into any attempts by the President and his top officials to obstruct the ongoing criminal, counter-intelligence, and oversight investigations currently being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Justice, and Congress into members of the Trump campaign and their contacts with Russian officials. “It is incumbent upon Members of Congress to uphold their Constitutional duty to serve as a check on the Executive Branch, to follow the facts, and to get to the truth. The credibility of the Office of the President of the United States and our government intuitions demand it, and most importantly, the American people deserve it,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. A copy of the letter can be found here.
05.16.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s admission that he revealed highly classified information to Russian officials. “President Trump’s decision to disclose highly classified information without considerable thought, consultation with the intelligence community, or recognition of the consequences is deeply disturbing. The President divulged more information to the Russians than the United States has thus far shared with its allies. This action hurts the credibility of the United States, endangers sources, methods, and assets in the field—many of whom are risking their lives to keep America safe—and jeopardizes our national security. “The timing of this leak and the circumstances surrounding the firing of FBI Director James Comey, who had recently requested more resources for the ongoing investigation into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election, must be immediately investigated by an independent commission. I urge my Republican colleagues in Congress to put country before party and fully investigate any and all ties between President Trump and Russia,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. #
05.12.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that Concord High School junior, Trinh Nguyen, is the winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for California’s 11th Congressional District. Her acrylic painting on canvas entitled “Bullies” will be displayed in the United States Capitol. The art competition is a juried art show open to all high school students who are residents of California’s 11th Congressional District. “Congratulations to Trinh and all of the students who participated in this year’s competition. I am truly inspired by the gifted young artists in our community. I applaud each of the talented students for their thoughtful and creative entries, and I look forward to seeing the artwork displayed,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The runners-up, whose artwork will be showcased in Congressman DeSaulnier’s offices are: Yoon-Ju Kim’s piece entitled “Just a Small Hug” from Las Lomas High School and Judith Valencia’s piece entitled “Toughen Up and Be a Woman” from Richmond High School. 67 works of art were submitted from nine different high schools throughout California’s 11th Congressional District. The Awards ceremony was held at Congressman DeSaulnier’s Walnut Creek district office and the winning pieces were selected by the following judges: Michelle Krup, Diablo Valley College Art and Photography Department Instructor Donna Fenstermaker, Contra Costa College Professor of Drawing and Composition Rebecca Talley, Los Medanos Adjunct Professor of Fine Arts & Graphic Communications The winning piece from the 11th Congressional District, along with winning artwork from all 50 states, will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for the next year. This summer, the winner and a guest will visit Washington, DC for a national reception honoring winners from across the country to celebrate the opening of the Capitol Exhibition. Since 1982, over 650,000 high school students from around the nation have participated in the Congressional Art Competition, which has allowed Members of Congress to acknowledge the artistic talents of their young constituents. Photo caption: Congressman Mark DeSaulnier and 2017 Congressional Art Competition winner Trinh Nguyen from Concord.
05.09.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to the questionable firing of FBI Director James Comey: "Fresh off hearings into Russia's documented interference into November's election, the timing of President Trump's firing of FBI Director James Comey raises serious questions as to whether this is a Nixonian-like abuse of power. As a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, I will work with my colleagues to pursue whether this represents an attempt to stifle the investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. It is time for Republicans and Democrats to unite to establish an independent commission and appoint a special prosecutor to fully investigate the Russian interference into our election. Congress should demand that President Trump release his tax returns so the American public might fully learn of any, and all, potential conflicts of interest—especially after his advisor and son in-law’s family was filmed this week attempting to sell access to green cards in exchange for investments in family projects," said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. #
05.08.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host a town hall meeting in Danville on Thursday, May 11th at 5:30 p.m. Since taking office in 2015, Mark has hosted 42 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. Residents are invited to join Congressman DeSaulnier for a town hall meeting to listen to a legislative update, to ask questions, and to share thoughts on issues of importance. Congressman DeSaulnier will also discuss the broad range of constituent services his office can provide. Danville Town Hall Thursday, May 11, 2017 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Danville Community Center Valley Oak Room 420 Front Street Danville, CA 94526 Please RSVP to CA.11RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s Walnut Creek office. #
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after Republicans voted to pass the American Health Care Act (H.R. 1628) out of the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 217-to-213. “What took place on the floor of the House of Representatives is shocking, sad, and will—with no hyperbole—if passed by the Senate result in people dying. Under Trumpcare, 24 million Americans will be kicked off their health insurance, those living with pre-existing conditions ranging from cancer to autism will witness their premiums skyrocket, seniors will be forced to pay 5 times more for their health care than the average American, and 30 million children will lose critical services by cutting Medicaid, all in the name of massive tax cuts for the wealthy.” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
04.04.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he is hosting the 2017 Congressional Art Competition, and students may begin submitting artwork. High school students living in California’s 11th Congressional District are encouraged to submit original artwork through Wednesday, May 3, 2017. The winning piece will be selected by a panel of local judges and announced at an event in Contra Costa County following the submission deadline. “Each year I am amazed by the talent and creativity of the young artists in our community. I am excited to see the 2017 submissions, and look forward to showcasing a piece from our District in the U.S. Capitol,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. This event is open to all high school artists across the nation, with a winning piece chosen from each Congressional District nationwide. The winning artwork from each district is displayed in the U.S. Capitol and the winner will visit Washington DC to attend a national reception honoring winners from around the country. Submissions may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches and must arrive at one of Congressman DeSaulnier’s district offices, in Walnut Creek or Richmond, no later than 5:00 p.m. on May 3, 2017. Complete contest guidelines and submission forms are available on Congressman DeSaulnier’s website at: www.desaulnier.house.gov/services/art-competition. #
04.03.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host town hall meetings in Antioch, Richmond, and Lafayette during the month of April. Mark has hosted 39 town halls and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County since taking office in 2015. Congressman DeSaulnier invites residents to join him at one of his upcoming town hall meetings to listen to a Congressional update, to ask questions, and to share thoughts on issues of importance. Congressman DeSaulnier will also discuss the broad range of constituent services his office can provide. Joint Antioch Town Hall with Representatives DeSaulnier (CA-11) and McNerney (CA-09) Saturday, April 8, 2017 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Nick Rodriguez Community Center 213 F Street Antioch, CA 94509Details: Please RSVP to CA.11RSVP@mail.house.gov or call 925-933-2660Richmond Town Hall Tuesday, April 11, 2017 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Lovonya Dejean Middle School, Multipurpose Room 3400 Macdonald Ave Richmond, CA 94805Lafayette Town Hall Wednesday, April 12, 2017 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Stanley Middle School, Multipurpose Room 3455 School Street Lafayette, CA 94549 Please RSVP to CA.11RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. For more information or to request ADA accommodations contact Congressman DeSaulnier’s office in either Walnut Creek or Richmond. #
03.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and U.S. Senator Kamala Harris (D-CA) introduced legislation which would expand the national historic site that celebrates the life and legacy of John Muir in Martinez, CA. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act (H.R. 1719/S. 729) would add an additional 44 acres to the John Muir National Historic site, which currently stretches across 330 acres in the East Bay of San Francisco and includes the home where Muir lived until he passed in 1914. Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA) joined DeSaulnier and Harris as an original cosponsor of this legislation. “Contra Costa’s own John Muir, the Father of the National Park Service, believed ‘everybody needs beauty as well as bread, places to play in and pray in, where nature may heal and give strength to body and soul.’ Expanding the site where he lived, wrote, and championed conservation efforts is a fitting celebration of his legacy, and will offer nature-goers greater access to enjoy the beauty of the East Bay,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “The expansion of the John Muir Historic Site will ensure that future generations of Californians and others will have the opportunity to continue to learn about his legacy as the father of the National Park Service,” said Senator Kamala Harris. “John Muir’s advocacy paved the path toward the protection of Yosemite and Sequoia as national parks, and Californians owe him a debt of gratitude. Our public lands are rich with natural diversity, and are worth of our protection and preservation.” “The time John Muir spent with his daughters at their scenic home and its neighboring property played a major role in launching the national parks movement. Expanding the existing park to preserve more of this history and beauty is a fitting tribute to Muir’s legacy of protecting land for all to enjoy,” said Senator Feinstein. “John Muir often walked this property with his two daughters to admire the oak woodlands and wildflowers that punctuate its grassy hillsides. Upon congressional approval of this land acquisition, future generations will forever be able to share in the same delights as John Muir and his daughters, exploring the property’s unrivaled beauty,” said Linus Eukel, Executive Director of the John Muir Land Trust. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act would authorize the National Park Service to acquire land that is being donated by the John Muir Land Trust. Since the parcel of land being donated by the trust exceeds the size the National Park Service is permitted to acquire administratively, Congressional approval is needed to complete the transfer. Congressman DeSaulnier first introduced this bill last Congress. It was unanimously passed in the House, but was not considered in the Senate. #
03.21.2017	Richmond, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier issued the following statement on the commemoration of National Rosie the Riveter Day, a collective national effort to raise awareness of the 16 million women working during World War II. “During World War II thousands of women joined the war effort at the Kaiser Shipyards in Richmond, now the home to the Rosie the Riveter National Historic Site, where they produced more ships than any other shipyard in the country. These brave and dedicated women broke barriers by taking jobs as riveters, welders, and electricians, paving the way for future generations. I am so proud to have this important piece of history in my district and cannot think of a more fitting tribute to the invaluable contributions these women made than a national day of recognition during Women's History Month.” #
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – A measure authored by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) was unanimously adopted by the Oversight and Government Reform Committee as a part of the bipartisan Postal Service Reform Act (H.R. 756), which has been years in the making. Congressman DeSaulnier’s amendment would require the United States Postal Service (USPS) to provide Congressional offices with at least 10-days of advance notice regarding any closure, sale, movement, or reduction of operations of a post office in their district. H.R. 756 is expected to be voted on in the House of Representatives in the near future. This amendment, which was praised by both Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD) along with other Republican and Democratic members of the committee, was the only modification included to this landmark piece of legislation in the markup. “Currently there is no requirement for USPS to notify Members of Congress when changes to a postal facility are made in their district. I discovered this missing link in January when residents from Richmond saw a notice posted on the door of the Nevin Avenue Post Office, but USPS had not advised my office of the pending sale,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “USPS has an obligation to keep Congress updated on any plan to sell, close, or alter facilities and operations so Congressional representatives can share this information with their constituents. Proper and expedient notification is critical as the comment period for the public to share thoughts and concerns is 15-days for the sale of a building and 60-days for a full postal closure. USPS is responsible for processing and delivering over 500 million pieces of mail a day and changes in operations can negatively impact people and businesses. My amendment will help ensure the public has advance notice to make their voices heard,” DeSaulnier concluded. “Residents here and across the country care about the decisions made by the federal government that impact important local community facilities. I was shocked to learn about the proposed closure of the historic downtown post office over social media without having been notified by the postal service. Residents expect federal and local government officials to coordinate to avoid significant impacts; this measure does just that. Congressman DeSaulnier took the steps needed to ensure transparency around important postal service decisions. We are thankful for the Congressman’s leadership to pass this measure and represent the community’s best interests,” said Richmond Mayor Tom Butt. #
03.07.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) released the following statement on the Republican plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “After seven years and more than 60 attempts to gut, rather than improve, the Affordable Care Act, Republicans have finally released their plan – only to put forth a bill which would roll back years of progress. The Republican plan would cause millions of Californians to lose their coverage, increase premiums and deductibles for working families, force seniors to pay five times more than what others pay for health coverage, and cause 11 million Americans to lose coverage through the termination of Medicaid expansion. The real winners under the Republican plan are the insurance companies, pharmaceutical industry, and the wealthy – leaving the sick, poor, and elderly to bear the brunt of damages caused by this flawed plan. “It is negligent and reckless for Republicans to jam their health care plan through committees this week without having it reviewed by the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office to determine the impact on taxpayers and the federal deficit. Before a single vote is cast Americans deserve to know what this damaging plan will mean for the coverage they already have, the health care costs families will pay, and the quality of the health care plans that will be offered. Before acting hastily, Republican Members would do well to remember that before the ACA was enacted in 2010 there were 79 bipartisan hearings and markups held in the House, 181 witnesses from both sides of the aisle called upon to testify, and 239 amendments considered, with 121 accepted, to ensure Members, experts, and the American people were heard.”
03.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after a Washington Post report exposed that Attorney General Jeff Sessions lied about his interactions with Russian officials under oath during his Senate confirmation hearing: “The unanswered questions surrounding Russian involvement in our electoral system has left many Americans concerned and seeking answers. During his confirmation hearing to become Attorney General of the United States, and while under oath, Senator Sessions said he had not been in communication with Russian officials throughout the presidential campaign. Today’s report that he lied under oath about meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak twice last year and is the only known lawmaker on the Senate Armed Services Committee to take meetings with the Russian ambassador during this timeframe is cause for Attorney General Sessions to immediately resign. “The American people deserve to know the full extent to which the Trump campaign and its surrogates colluded with the Russians to interfere in our democratic process. There should be a bipartisan effort to make absolutely certain that no laws have been broken and that both the letter and spirit of the Constitution has been upheld. America’s top cop must be honest and above reproach, and Attorney General Sessions’ actions have shown he can be neither.” #
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s first address to a Joint Session of Congress: “The most important part of President Trump’s Joint Address to Congress is not what he said, but rather what he chose not to say. While shifting his tone to sound more Presidential, the content of his speech was more of the same – broken promises. President Trump was light on explicit policy directives on how he plans to address the most pressing issues of our time. “What I hoped to hear from the President tonight were answers to questions surrounding Russian influence in our electoral system, his financial conflicts of interests, how he plans to uphold his Constitutional obligations, and ultimately a display of humility and respect for the Office of the President. Instead, what I heard tonight was the blaming of others. I listened in disgust as he blamed immigrants for many of the problems facing our country; claimed that the Affordable Care Act is failing, when there is simply no evidence to support that claim; and touted that education is the great civil rights issue of our day, when just this week his Administration rolled back guidance for schools aimed at protecting transgender students. “It is incumbent upon President Trump to call for an independent investigation into the Russian involvement in our democracy, his deflection tactics and silence on this issue are not acceptable.” #
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, a measure authored by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) was included in the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act (H.R. 998), which authorizes $30 million to establish a commission charged with reviewing federal regulations and recommending regulatory repeals. Congressman DeSaulnier’s amendment directs the commission to analyze the negative impacts to public health, such as air and water pollution which can lead to an increased risk of illness, before recommending the repeal of any federal regulations. The amendment overwhelmingly passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 348-to-75. “This anti-regulation bill aimed at slashing federal guidance to help corporations turn a profit in the short term, pays little regard to the long-term health and safety impacts on the American public. In California, I helped strengthen the first-in-the-nation ‘Health in All Policies’ program, which requires a similar review of government policies and health effects. This policy, in effect for 6 years, has led to greater collaboration across agencies, established more robust protections for public health, and has saved taxpayer dollars,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “This is a necessary and reasonable improvement to the bill, and I am encouraged by the bipartisan support it received. I will continue to push my Republican colleagues to consider public health before enacting policies that will adversely impact the American people,” DeSaulnier concluded. Congressman DeSaulnier voted against the SCRUB Act because it dramatically undermines Congressional authority by placing unelected members, with virtually unlimited subpoena power, in charge of reviewing existing agency rules for repeal. No rule, including those aimed at protecting against conflicts of interest in the federal government or whistleblower protections, would be safe. #
02.15.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement today after Andrew Puzder withdrew as the Labor Secretary nominee: “The nomination of Andrew Puzder was a cruel joke on American workers who were misled to believe that this Administration was going to defend them. Mr. Puzder’s background as a corporate lawyer and overpaid CEO made him unable to appreciate the struggles facing the average worker. His opposition to leveling the playing field for workers by raising the minimum wage is alarming considering he earned 291 times the salary of a minimum wage worker in the fast-food industry. Mr. Puzder would have been a Labor Secretary who cared more about the bottom line than the assembly line. The Administration should take note of this rebuke and find a nominee committed to putting the American worker first.” Congressman DeSaulnier is the only Bay Area member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce and is a former small business owner. #
02.15.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host a general town hall meeting on Thursday, February 23rd at 6:30 p.m. in Pleasant Hill. Since his election to Congress, Mark has hosted 33 town hall meetings and mobile district office hours throughout California’s Eleventh Congressional District. Representative DeSaulnier invites residents of Contra Costa County to join him for a town hall meeting to listen to a presentation and legislative update. During the town hall constituents will have an opportunity to ask questions and share thoughts on key policy issues and actions taken under the new Administration. Pleasant Hill Town Hall Thursday, February 23, 2017 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Diablo Valley College Cafeteria 321 Golf Club Rd Pleasant Hill, CA 94523 Details: Parking Available in Lot 8 For more information or to request ADA accommodations, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
02.10.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Mike Thompson (CA-05) will host a town hall meeting on Saturday, February 18th at 10:30 a.m. in Martinez to discuss the importance of protecting the Affordable Care Act (ACA), Medicare, and Medicaid. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, California has witnessed the most dramatic gains in health coverage nationwide and has provided residents with many insurance options. Repealing the ACA would leave 5.8 million Californians with pre-existing conditions at risk of losing their coverage. The uncertain future of a repeal without a viable replacement has left many people worried about the future of their coverage. Representatives DeSaulnier and Thompson invite residents to join them for this town hall meeting to discuss the importance of protecting the ACA and ensuring every American is covered by quality, affordable health care. Town Hall with Representatives DeSaulnier and Thompson Protecting the Affordable Care Act, Medicare, and Medicaid Saturday, February 18, 2017 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. County Board of Supervisors Chambers, Room 107 651 Pine Street Martinez, CA 94553 For more information or to request ADA accommodations, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
01.23.2017	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressmen Mark DeSauliner (CA-11) and Mark Pocan (WI-02) hosted the first in a series of regional events to launch the “Future of Work, Wages, and Labor,” an initiative to help identify ways to proactively grow and invigorate our workforce. The event also featured Representatives Barbara Lee (CA-13), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Jared Huffman (CA-02), and Eric Swalwell (CA-15). The two-part event on Tuesday began with presentations by leading researchers at UC Berkeley on trends in the work and marketplace and was followed by a town hall with the local workforce. “Working families have been hit hard and the incoming Administration is sure to enact policies to double down on that pain. We need to do everything we can to help Americans earn a fair wage, provide for their families, own homes, and retire with dignity. I thank my friend, Congressman Mark Pocan, and my Democratic colleagues for joining me to address the obstacles facing the American workforce, and Congresswoman Barbara Lee for hosting us in her district. Congressman Pocan and I look forward to taking our initiative on the road to Congressional districts nationwide, because our hardworking families deserve to have their voice heard,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Long before Donald Trump began talking about a rigged economy, Congressman DeSaulnier and I began investigating the ways conservative policy makers have been stacking the deck against workers in favor of big businesses and wealthy campaign donors,” said Congressman Pocan. "Whether it is the erosion of worker voice, the evaporation of retirement security, or the misclassification of workers as independent contractors, hard-working families have been suffering the consequences of conservative policies for nearly four decades. We have seen the GOP’s war on workers in Wisconsin under Gov. Walker, and President-elect Trump seems to be taking a page out of Walker’s playbook by sticking it to the people who elected him. I’m proud to be joined on this trip by so many other members of Congress, and I look forward to working with Rep. DeSaulnier and our colleagues to create a comprehensive set of policies to help working families get ahead.” “Thank you to Rep. DeSaulnier for his continued efforts focusing on the future of labor, wages, and work in the era of Trump,” said Congresswoman Lee. “In the wealthiest nation on earth, it is a disgrace that so many of our families struggle just to afford necessities. We must continue working to build a strong economy with good paying jobs, the right to organize and bargain, and paid family leave. As Chair of the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality and Opportunity, I will continue working to ensure all workers can earn a fair and living wage to lift themselves and their families out of poverty.” “Working men and women remain the backbone of the American economy,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “I thank Mark for his leadership in convening this dialogue on the future of work, wages and labor in this country. These conversations are critical to understanding and developing innovative policies and programs to support and strengthen our workforce. Michigan is home of much of the modern labor movement and we know how important this work is to protecting and growing the middle class and creating job opportunities for all Americans.” “Today, we listened to workers from multiple industries discuss the challenges and opportunities they face each day. From my start as an IBEW electrician, through my career as a business agent and AFL-CIO leader, I’ve seen how anti-worker policies have made challenges grow and opportunities dwindle. America’s working families need a strong labor movement, and we must unite from coast to coast and throughout the heartland to defend workers and ensure every American has the opportunity to earn a fair wage and get a fair shot at success,” said Congressman Norcross. "Our workforce is the backbone of our economy, and I am proud to stand alongside our labor community to create good, high-paying jobs right here in California,” said Congressman Thompson. “Everyone deserves the dignity that comes from making a living and providing for their families. America was built by working people, and it is vital we listen to their concerns and work together to develop new solutions.” “We have to make a stand for the American worker. With wages stagnant, unions facing more barriers to organizing, and outsourcing and offshoring still too prevalent, the U.S. workforce has many questions; we must make sure we’re providing the right answers, and not just grandiose but empty promises of a return to yesteryear,” said Congressman Swalwell. #
01.13.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier announced that he will not attend the Inauguration of President-elect Donald J. Trump one week from today. “The peaceful transition of power from one administration to the next is a uniquely American tradition that defines our democracy. Inaugurations are a time for our Presidents to ignite hope, demonstrate humility, and espouse faithfulness to the principles enumerated in the Constitution. The President-elect has yet to demonstrate these traits, and it is with a heavy heart and deep personal conviction that I have decided not to attend the Inauguration on January 20, 2017. “Having watched, listened, and waited during this transition period, I was hopeful the President-elect would turn away from the divisive and contentious behavior exhibited during the campaign and embrace a message to unify all Americans. Sadly, we have witnessed one polarizing action after another. Since being elected, he has demonstrated hostility toward our free and open press, committed to gutting health insurance for millions of hardworking families, and is filling his cabinet with nominees more closely aligned with Wall Street than Main Street. “Earlier this week, the President-elect acknowledged, but took no meaningful steps to mitigate his many personal conflicts of interest. The plan he outlined is wholly inadequate and leaves the American public with more questions than answers. It is the duty of the President of the United States to meet the minimum legal and ethical standards outlined in the Constitution. This makes his refusal to follow the precedent set by generations of presidents before him from both parties gravely concerning. “As President, the nation will look to him for guidance in times of turmoil and times of plenty. In these moments, the country must have full confidence that his sole focus is on protecting America’s interest – not his own. I believe when he places his hand on the Bible and takes the sacred oath that Presidents Washington and Lincoln did before him, he will in that very moment, be in violation of that oath and the Constitution. “As a student of American history, I cannot sit idly by and normalize a President who has displayed disregard for our past traditions and Constitution. In this critical period of transition, I am reminded of when Benjamin Franklin exited the Constitutional Convention at its completion and approached a group of citizens, one of whom asked ‘Mr. Franklin, what have you given us?’ to which he replied ‘A republic, if you can keep it.’ On Inauguration Day, I will not be in attendance, but instead preparing to do all I can to keep our republic,” said Congressman DeSaulnier.
01.11.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he has been appointed to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in the 115th Congress. In addition, he will continue to serve on the House Education and Workforce Committee. “I understand that our transportation is failing the Bay Area, and that we need radical and immediate change. It is an honor to join the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. As the former Chairman of the California State Senate Transportation and Housing Committee, I look forward to continuing to fight for needed investments in our infrastructure systems to improve safety, reduce congestion, and create millions of good paying jobs. The Transportation Committee is expected to have a full agenda in new the Congress, including a robust infrastructure bill and addressing aviation and surface transportation needs. I am excited to get right to work on these and other innovative solutions that will help strengthen our economy, make us more competitive, and ensure transparency and accountability in state and local infrastructure projects,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “Congressman DeSaulnier brings a tremendous wealth of knowledge, experience and accomplishment to addressing the nation’s urgent transportation and infrastructure needs,” said Jim Wunderman, President and CEO of the Bay Area Council. “Congressman DeSaulnier understands how critically important our transportation and other infrastructure are to growing our economy. He focuses on solutions and getting things done. He will be a great champion for California and for our nation in fighting for the investments that are so badly needed to keep our country and our economy moving.” “Mark has been a longtime champion of improving transportation in the Bay Area. His appointment to the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure is a win not only for Contra Costa County for, but for our nation. I am confident that he will bring the same passionate leadership to his new assignment that he has exhibited in the past, and I look forward to finding new innovative ways to partner with him to improve our transit systems for Bay Area residents,” said Randy Iwasaki, Executive Director of the Contra Costa Transportation Authority. In addition to his time as Chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee and serving as the first freshman in history to chair the California Assembly Transportation Committee, DeSaulnier brings to the Committee a breath of experience having served as a former member of the California Transportation Commission, a former member of the Metropolitan Transportation Commission, and the National Conference of State Legislatures Transportation Committee, and for nearly a decade Congressman DeSaulnier served on the California Air and Resources Board. #
12.13.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in light of the U.S. intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia interfered in U.S. elections for the purposes of affecting the outcome. “Our election system is an integral part of what makes us the beacon of Western democracy. Any and all attempts to undermine this system is an attack on our country’s values and cannot be taken lightly. I am encouraged that the investigation has received bipartisan and bicameral support and call on the President-elect to endorse the CIA’s efforts as a sign of American unity against Russian intrusion.” “Adding to the alarm caused by these allegations is President-elect Trump’s nomination of Exxon Mobil Corp. chief Rex Tillerson for Secretary of State, who is known for having ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Senate confirmation process must fully examine these connections.” #
12.12.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will continue his standing practice of meeting one-on-one with constituents during Mobile District Office Hours on Saturday, December 17th from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the Kensington Community Center. Since being elected to Congress, DeSaulnier has hosted 30 Mobile District Office Hours and town hall meetings throughout Contra Costa County. As our nation experiences an unprecedented transition, Congressman DeSaulnier is looking forward to meeting one-on-one with constituents and hearing first-hand about issues that impact their lives, families, and our community. Mark will be on site to share thoughts and answer questions and to assist with issues related to Social Security, Medicare, the Veteran’s Administration, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, December 17th from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Where: Kensington Community Center 59 Arlington Avenue, Kensington, CA 94707 Details: First come, first served. No appointment necessary. This event is open to all residents of California’s 11th Congressional District. For more information or to confirm you are a resident of the 11th Congressional District, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
12.09.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that next week he will host back-to-back town hall meetings in El Cerrito and Martinez. Since his election to Congress, Mark has hosted 30 town hall meetings and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. “I invite residents of Contra Costa County to join me at one of my back-to-back town hall meetings to discuss the change in the Administration, key policy issues, learn about our work in Congress and discuss the broad range of services our office provides,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. El Cerrito Town Hall Wednesday, December 14, 2016 6:30 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. (Check-in begins at 6:00 p.m.) Harding Elementary School Auditorium 7230 Fairmount Avenue El Cerrito, CA 94530 Martinez Joint Town Hall with Congressman Mike Thompson Thursday, December 15, 2016 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. (Check-in begins at 6:30 p.m.) County Board of Supervisors Chambers, Room 107 651 Pine Street Martinez, CA 94553 For more information or to request ADA accommodations, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660.
12.08.2016	Washington, DC -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to the addition of a controversial provision in the Water Infrastructure for the Nation Act (WIIN). “Behind closed doors, House Republicans inserted provisions that gut environmental protections in California’s Bay-Delta, threatening the livelihoods of thousands of fishing jobs and water quality. I strongly oppose this effort, which would override Endangered Species Act protections and conflicts with California law, replacing evidence-based decision-making with political imperatives reversing progress that California has made toward finding sustainable drought solutions. Additionally, the bill puts at risk critical funding for Flint and other critical water infrastructure projects around the nation.” #
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Jackie Speier (CA-14) sent a letter to the leaders of the House Armed Services Committee and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee calling on both committees to investigate troubling claims related to wasteful spending in the U.S. Department of Defense. Earlier this week, a Department of Defense report that identified $125 billion in potential wasteful spending was uncovered by the Washington Post. “It is deeply concerning to discover that Pentagon officials may have buried a report that identifies $125 billion in wasteful spending rather than provide their findings to Congress. Equally troubling is the amount of waste identified is more than the entire Department of Education budget and is more than three times budget for the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Clearly our national budget priorities are askew. Since the Pentagon has never undergone a full audit, I call on my colleagues in Congress to investigate if taxpayer dollars are being spent effectively,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “It’s outrageous that Congress is forced to find out through the media that the Pentagon has squandered $125 billion in budget savings. That wasteful spending is 20 times greater than the additional funding Congress recently provided to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and more than the entirety of what our federal government contributes to our nation’s educational system annually,” said Congresswoman Speier. “Instead of streamlining their operations the Pentagon buried their unacceptable waste and inefficiency behind a veil of secrecy. We must uphold our oversight duties under the Constitution and hold the Department of Defense accountable for these mismanaged billions.” The study conducted by the Defense Business Board provided a “clear path” for the DOD to save the identified funding over the course of five years without requiring layoffs or military personnel reductions. #
12.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act (H.R. 34). The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 392-to-26. “This legislation will help ensure the National Institutes of Health (NIH) have the resources needed to continue important work improving biomedical research and developing innovative treatments. Included in the bill is funding for the Vice President’s Cancer Moonshot, which is essential to continuing the program under the new Administration, as well as funds to combat the growing opioid and heroin epidemic facing our country. While this bill is not perfect, it provides $4.8 billion in new funding to ensure NIH is able to further its work for patients and families relying on research, treatment and recovery options. As a survivor of cancer and a beneficiary of the remarkable progress this country has made in treatment and research, I know all too well the value of these investments and how many lives can be saved as a result.” Congressman DeSaulnier offered an amendment to the bill, which would have helped improve doctor-patient communication when patients are diagnosed and receiving treatment for severe or chronic diseases. No amendments were included in the final version of the bill. He will continue to work on these important issues. #
11.30.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced Jasmine Steele of Danville as the winner of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge for California’s 11th District. Jasmine Steele, a student at San Ramon Valley High School, designed and created “Allergy Blast,” an app that provides a platform to easily and quickly share allergy and medication information. The app is meant to help children, seniors, or those with special needs who may wish to inform schools or caregivers of this important information. “I am proud of the innovative young programmers in our district who participated in this year’s app challenge. I congratulate Jasmine on the design of her creative and potentially lifesaving app, and look forward to seeing ‘Allergy Blast’ represent Contra Costa County on display in the United States Capitol,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The runners-up included Matt Moss of Alamo, Michael Chou of Danville, and Ray and Ross Altenberg of Moraga with their teammate Alan Brilliant from San Mateo. The panel of judges for the competition were: Muktesh Mishra, Senior Software Engineer, Capital One Shaun Webb, Product and POC management, Capital One Sudha Jamthe, Part-Time Instructor, Stanford Continuing Studies, Technology The Congressional App Challenge is a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. students to learn how to code by creating their own applications to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education. This is the second year DeSaulnier has hosted the Congressional App Challenge for the Eleventh District. More information about the Congressional App Challenge can be found here. Photo Caption (Top): Congressman DeSaulnier congratulates Jasmine Steele, the 2016 Congressional App Challenge winner for California’s 11th Congressional District. Photo Caption (Bottom): Congressman DeSaulnier (middle) with 2016 Congressional App Challenge participants (from left to right) Ray Altenberg, Ross Altenberg, Jasmine Steele, and Michael Chou. #
11.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the naming of Executive Chairman of Breitbart News and alt-right movement leader, Stephen Bannon as Chief Strategist to President-elect Trump. “On election night, President-elect Trump spoke of the need to unite the American people following a divisive election. Naming Steve Bannon as White House Chief Strategist directly contradicts this message. Putting someone in the White House with a clear record of divisive and hateful rhetoric speaks to concerns that millions of Americans have about the Trump Administration and what it will mean for minority groups and the diversity that is the fabric of our country. While the President-elect can name any advisors he wishes, I urge him to immediately reconsider Mr. Bannon,” said Congressman DeSaulnier.
10.28.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) received a 97% score from the League of Conservation Voters (LCV) on its 2015 National Environmental Scorecard. The high score reflects his record of fighting for important issues, including energy, global warming, public health, public lands and wildlife conservation, and supporting environmental programs during his first session of Congress. “Preserving our planet’s natural resources for generations to come has been one of my priorities since serving on the California Air Resources Board in the 1990s. It is an honor to be recognized by the League of Conservation Voters for my environmental work, and I will continue to work with the LCV to promote policies that address climate change and protect public health while strengthening our economy,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “The 2015 Scorecard shows that our cornerstone environmental standards are under attack more than ever before,” said Gene Karpinski, President of the League of Conservation Voters. “Thankfully, Congressman DeSaulnier is helping lead the charge against these extreme attacks. His stellar record during his first year in the U.S. House builds on his strong record at the state-level fighting to protect the air we breathe and confront the climate crisis and we look forward to continue working with him.” LCV’s National Environmental Scorecard ranks 35 different votes to provide objective, factual information about the most important environmental legislation considered in the 114th Congress and the corresponding voting records of all members of Congress. The Scorecard represents the consensus of experts from approximately 20 respected environmental and conservation organizations who select the key votes on which members of Congress should be scored. The full scorecard can be found here.Congressman Mark DeSaulnier also has earned a lifetime score from the League of Conservation Voters of 97%.
10.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement after thousands of California soldiers were ordered to repay enlistment bonuses more than a decade after re-enlisting to serve in Iraq and Afghanistan. “It is outrageous that California’s veterans, who have served our country and experienced personal sacrifice, are expected to go through financial hardship in order to repay signing bonuses which they believed were rightfully earned. The responsibility for the overpayment of these bonuses should not fall on the backs of our servicemembers. The State of California did the right thing in auditing its books for any inconsistencies, and now the American people deserve a full audit of the Department of Defense’s finances. Action must be taken to do right by our veterans and determine how something like this could have occurred. No veteran should be penalized for answering the call for duty,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. #
10.20.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), the only Bay Area member on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, received a perfect grade on the National Education Association’s (NEA) annual report card for the first session of the 114th Congress. “We know student success is highly dependent on early investment in their education. In my first year as a Member of Congress, I fought for a high quality and affordable education for every student in every classroom across the country. I am deeply honored to receive an A from the National Education Association and look forward to continuing to work with the NEA to improve our schools and prioritize student’s academic success,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “We commend Congressman DeSaulnier for listening to educators and getting the job done for students during the 114th Congress,” said Mary Kusler, NEA director of government relations. “The Congressional passage of the bipartisan Every Student Succeeds Act, which Rep. DeSaulnier supported, is a direct result of what is possible when legislators from both sides of the political aisle put students ahead of partisan politics especially in an era of gridlock in Washington. This result also is an unequivocal recognition that many lawmakers still believe educators – those who know the names of their students – are the most trusted professionals best equipped to make school and classroom decisions to ensure student success regardless of ZIP code. We hope that the bipartisanship displayed at times last year will lead to greater future collaboration. We will continue to work with all elected officials to ensure the success of every student in America.” Congressman DeSaulnier’s measures to improve Head Start programs, protect student athletes from concussions, and strengthen students’ access to support and “wraparound” services like tutoring, counseling, and other extracurricular activities were successfully included in the Every Student Succeeds Act. Additionally, Congressman DeSaulnier recently completed his Education Listening Tour, during which he visited every school district and in California’s 11th Congressional District. NEA is the nation’s largest professional employee organization focused on advancing the cause of public education. NEA’s Legislative Report Card measures Members of Congress’ overall support for public education and educators, with each Member receiving a letter grade of A, B, C, D or F. To view this year’s scorecard please visit https://www.nea.org/home/19413.htm. #
10.14.2016	Richmond, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) released the following statement on the hate crime charges filed by Contra Costa County District Attorney, Mark Peterson, following the attack of Maan Singh Khalsa, a Sikh man in Richmond last month. “I join the people of Richmond and the Sikh community in expressing my deep concern over the attack on Mr. Khalsa. Acts of discrimination and hatred have no place in our society, and no member of our community should ever fear for their safety because of their religion or culture. I am pleased the District Attorney’s office has filed hate crime charges and is seeking justice for Mr. Khalsa, and upholding the values of the people of Richmond," said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. #
10.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) received a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign’s (HRC) Congressional Scorecard, which measured support for LGBTQ equality in the 114th Congress. “I am deeply honored to be awarded a perfect score from the Human Rights Campaign for supporting equality for all Americans regardless of who they love. Despite the progress that we have made, millions of LGBTQ people are still at risk of being denied services or discriminated against simply because of their sexual orientation. I will continue to work alongside the HRC to fight for LGBTQ nondiscrimination protections,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “While California has led the way to ensure that LGBTQ people can one day live free from fear of discrimination, Congressman DeSaulnier is stepping up to ensure that LGBTQ people everywhere across our country are guaranteed equal treatment under the law," said HRC Government Affairs Director David Stacy. "From co-sponsoring the Equality Act to working to protect LGBTQ students from discrimination, his perfect 100 rating shows that Congressman DeSaulnier is committed to full federal equality." The HRC is the largest LGBT civil rights advocacy group organization in the United States. Representing more than 1.5 million members and supporters, HRC is working to create a world where all people are ensured basic equal rights and can be open, honest and safe at home, work and in the community. For more information on the HRC Congressional Scorecard for the 114th Congress, their legislative scorecard can be viewed here.Congressman DeSaulnier is a member of the Equality Caucus, which works toward the extension of equal rights for all regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity and expression. #
10.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the resignation of Wells Fargo CEO, John Stumpf. “Two weeks ago I called upon Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf to resign after finding myself, like so many Americans, disheartened and angry at the rejection of Wells Fargo’s corporate social and ethical responsibilities. Today’s announcement is welcome news, but there is much work to be done for this once great California institution to find its moral compass. It is my hope that Mr. Stumpf’s resignation is the first in a series of actions the company is taking to reform business practices and rebuild consumer’s trust.” #
10.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), members of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, introduced legislation in response to the Mylan hearing at which the CEO acknowledged that salary for the position increased 600 percent in less than a decade, and other reports that companies like Wells Fargo pay its CEO nearly 500 times the rate of its average employee. The CEO Accountability and Responsibility Act (H.R. 6242) would increase corporate tax rates on publically traded companies that exploit workers and pay CEOs astronomically high salaries. “America has a problem, as we see company after company come before Congress to apologize for bad behavior. One would ask, what has happened to our business culture? Too many executives at the top are incentivized to put profits before people by catering to shareholders and padding pockets on the back of consumers. Corporations should have a moral and social responsibility to workers, consumers, and American democracy. This bill sets the stage to stop fueling excessive income inequality,” said Representative Mark DeSaulnier. “It seems like every day we see a new story about another company taking outrageous steps to maximize their profits ­­– insane increases on lifesaving drugs to fund flights on private jets, sky-high salaries for CEOs who oversee severe and possibly criminal mishandling of consumer information,” said Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman. “If we’re serious about bringing back a thriving middle class, we need to lift up the companies who are investing in their workers at every level, not just lifting their leadership higher into the 1-percent. The companies responsible for recent CEO pay trends are wreaking havoc. It’s time we hold them accountable.” On average, CEOs of the largest companies in the U.S. earn three times more than they did 20 years ago and at least 10 times more than 30 years ago. In fact, between 1978 and 2014, inflation-adjusted CEO pay increased by almost 1,000 percent, while the typical U.S. worker saw their pay increase by only 11 percent during that same period. Today, we see the pay disparity between the average American CEO and average worker is 303-to-1. “Corporations that pay their top executives vast multiples of the typical worker's wage should face higher taxes than corporations whose top pay is closer to the typical worker's. The CEO Accountability and Responsibility Act is an important and necessary step,” said Robert B. Reich, Chancellor's Professor of Public Policy, University of California at Berkeley and former U.S. Secretary of Labor. The CEO Accountability and Responsibility Act would increase corporate tax rates on companies with larger than a 100-to-1 ratio of pay between CEOs and their average workers. At the same time the bill would reward companies whose CEO to worker ratio fell below that threshold, demonstrating that corporate social responsibility is an essential practice in American business. #
10.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) today announced that Contra Costa College (CCC) will receive a $1,199,013 grant from the U.S. Department of Education (DOE). The grant will be used for the College’s Caminos al Exito Project, which aims to improve access and opportunity in the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields for Hispanic and low-income residents. “Having a high school diploma no longer guarantees a good job. Improving access to and participation in STEM education will help today’s students be better prepared for tomorrow’s careers,” said Representative Mark DeSaulnier. “Through this grant, Contra Costa College is not only investing in its student body, but is also helping to better our communities and create a strong economy.” “These federal dollars will strengthen our community by helping make sure someone’s first language or family income isn’t a barrier to fully achieving his or her educational goals,” said Representative Mike Thompson. “A quality STEM education can open doors for our students as they look to secure well-paying jobs after graduation. And we know that demand for qualified employees will only continue to grow in the STEM field. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that the number of science and engineering jobs will grow at a faster rate than that of the overall projected workforce in the years ahead. As we work to close opportunity gaps for our Hispanic and low-income students, we must make sure that a STEM education is a real option in our schools.” “We are so pleased that the U.S. Department of Education selected Contra Costa College (CCC) to receive another Hispanic Serving Institution (HSI) grant focused on expanding exposure, access and completion in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) for Hispanics and low-income residents in our region,” says President Mojdeh Mehdizadeh. “Many areas of job growth in our community will require a strong STEM foundation, and our proposal is designed to help more students successfully achieve the confidence, education and skills to be competitive for these opportunities. In addition, we are excited because this grant allows us to continue our important work in promoting and supporting STEM literacy for elementary students and their parents.” The grant is provided through the U.S. Department of Education’s Hispanic-Serving Institution’s Science, Technology, Engineering, & Mathematics and Articulation (HSI STEM) Program. The purpose of the HSI STEM Program is to increase the number of Hispanic students attaining degrees in STEM fields and better facilitate transfers between two-year and four-year institutions in such fields. Specifically, the funds will be used to help the Caminos al Exito Project: Increase access and college readiness to accelerate success in STEM for Hispanic and low-income area residents; Increase the number of articulation agreements in STEM disciplines with the University of California-Berkeley, University of California-Davis, University of California-Santa Cruz, California State University-East Bay, San Francisco State University, and San Jose State University; and Increase the retention, graduation and transfer rates of students in STEM through case management advising and high-impact educational practices. Contra Costa College is a public community college in San Pablo serving the diverse communities of West Contra Costa County with over 6,500 enrolled students, 41 percent of which are Hispanic. Forty-five percent of the Hispanic students enrolled at Contra Costa College are both low-income and first-generation college students. #
09.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – In the wake of yet another Congressional hearing revealing more dishonesty and fraud perpetrated by Wells Fargo, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a member of the Oversight & Government Reform Committee, canceled his Wells Fargo account as a signal of his concern with the company and sent a letter to John Stumpf, Wells Fargo CEO, calling on him to resign. The full text of the letter is below. September 30, 2016 John Stumpf Chief Executive Officer Wells Fargo & Company 420 Montgomery Street San Francisco, CA 94104 Dear Mr. Stumpf: Despite the negative attention drawn by many banks, I have always respected Wells Fargo as a great California and San Francisco institution. Like the millions of Americans betrayed by Wells Fargo, I am highly disappointed and disgusted that Wells Fargo senior management created such a toxic culture for its employees that over 5,000 members of your staff found it necessary to commit fraud to improve company profits. While I previously believed Wells Fargo to be above these shameful practices, I find myself disheartened and angry at the rejection of your corporate social and ethical responsibilities. It is clear that another once fine institution has lost its moral compass. To add insult to injury, your response to the revelations of your company’s misdeeds are inadequate. Consumer faith in our major financial institutions is vital to the long-term stability and success of our nation’s economy. There are disastrous collateral consequences when great institutions do not live up to the full-faith and fabric of American Democracy. The trust that I held in your once great institution was a vestige of a better age of business; a day in which unwieldy contracts and teams of lawyers were not necessary to ensure the compliance of contractual obligations, social responsibility, and community goodwill. This culture was epitomized by A.P. Gianni, who built his reputation through trust and openness by helping San Francisco rebuild in the wake of the disastrous 1906 earthquake and fires. In that business era, a handshake symbolized the word and bond of American business. Given your actions and the lack of trust that has been sewn in the community by you and Wells Fargo, I believe that the best thing you can do for your bank and for the public is to resign. Sincerely, Mark DeSaulnier Member of Congress #
09.30.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will continue his longtime practice of meeting one-on-one with constituents during Mobile District Office Hours on Wednesday, October 5th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. during the El Cerrito Senior Resource Fair. Since being elected to Congress, DeSaulnier has hosted twenty-nine Mobile District Office Hours and Town Halls throughout Contra Costa County. “The most rewarding aspect of my job is the people. Meeting one-on-one with constituents and hearing first-hand about issues that impact their lives, families or our community helps inform my work in Congress. These conversations are critical to effectively representing the people of California’s 11th Congressional District. I invite all residents to drop by our Mobile District Office Hours to discuss important topics or learn about the services our office provides. I look forward to seeing you there,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be on hand to share thoughts and to answer questions about federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, Medicare, the Veteran’s Administration, or other federal agencies. Prior to hosting office hours DeSaulnier will speak at the El Cerrito Senior Resource Fair. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Wednesday, October 5th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Where: El Cerrito Community Center 7007 Moeser Lane, El Cerrito, CA Details: First come, first served. No appointment necessary. This event is open to all residents of California’s 11th Congressional District. For more information or to confirm you are a resident of the 11th district, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
09.22.2016	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to passage of the Supporting Youth Opportunity and Preventing Delinquency Act (H.R.5963). Included in the bill is a provision similar to the SafeFutures Initiative that benefited Contra Costa County in the 1990s by connecting fragmented social, health, education, and juvenile justice programs within the community to make those services more seamless. “As a young man working for the Boston juvenile court, I saw firsthand the importance of supporting programs that help decrease violence and delinquency and improve services to at-risk youth and their families. We have a responsibility to all of our children, regardless of their background or past mistakes. This provision works to identify the assistance children need before, during, and after potential interaction with the juvenile justice system. Through this program young adults will have the opportunity to be on track for a bright future,” said Congressman DeSaulnier, who oversaw the SafeFutures Initiative as a Contra Costa County Supervisor. This bill reauthorizes the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA) of 1974, which better coordinates federal resources for at-risk youth and juvenile offenders. The last time that JJDPA was reauthorized was in 2002. #
09.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) introduced the Federal Law Enforcement and Public Protection Act, which would mandate federal agencies implement safeguards to prevent federal law enforcement officers’ service weapons from becoming lost and stolen. Over the past years, the Bay Area has seen the fatal shootings of Kathryn Steinle and Antonio Ramos in which the shooters used weapons that were stolen from federal law enforcement officers. These murders are just two examples of the concerning trend surrounding the theft of law enforcement weapons nationwide. “Locking a firearm when it is not in use should be standard practice. Yet, the glaring gap in current policies regarding gun safety has led to federal law enforcement weapons being stolen and subsequently used in crimes. My bill would ensure that federal law enforcement officers are properly storing their guns to protect the public and themselves, said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. There are almost 80 federal law enforcement agencies, yet there is currently no federal standard in place for officers to safely lock and store their guns. Congressman DeSaulnier’s straightforward bill would require standards for federal law enforcement officers to lock their weapons when they are not in use, and would institute a reporting mechanism to better understand the severity of this problem. This bill would also provide officers with information about the dangers of keeping an unlocked gun in the home. “This bill would put into place simple reforms to make certain our law enforcement uses best practices that can save lives,” said Congressman Mark Desaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier previously sent a letter to President Obama requesting executive action requiring federal agencies to establish protocols for securing firearms that are not in use. In addition to the incidents in San Francisco, there have recently been several reports in the media of federal law enforcement officers either having their weapons stolen or misplacing them, including by the Capitol Police and Secret Service. #
09.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced commonsense legislation to protect low income students from being taxed on using their Pell Grants for non-tuition goods and services. He is joined in introducing the Pell Grant Flexibility Act (H.R. 5764) by his Republican colleagues Representatives Lee Zeldin (NY-1), Thomas MacArthur (NJ-3), and Peter King (NY-2) as well as 16 leading education organizations including The Institute for College Access and Success (TICAS) and the National Education Association (NEA). Federal Pell Grants can be used to cover both tuition and non-tuition expenses. However, when students use these funds for non-tuition expenses their Pell Grant is taxed, while strictly tuition costs are exempt. Each year approximately eight million students receive Pell Grant funding. A majority of these recipients have family incomes under $40,000 per year, and typically borrow higher amounts of student loans to cover the costs associated with higher education. “When it comes to college affordability, paying tuition is not the only cost that worries students and families. Expenses like textbooks, off-campus housing, transportation, and child care account for roughly 60 to 80 percent of total cost of a higher education. We must allow students to use every Pell dollar toward focusing on their earning their degree,” said Congressman DeSaulnier "The rising cost of higher education is a crushing burden to many families, but access to Pell grants offer substantial assistance. The ability to use Pell Grants for expenses other than tuition and to have access to those funds on a tax-free basis is vital. NEA applauds Rep. DeSaulnier for introducing the Pell Grant Flexibility Act," said NEA Director of Government Relations, Mary Kusler. “Pell Grants should not be treated as taxable income regardless of which qualified education expense they are used to cover. By eliminating the inconsistent tax treatment of Pell Grants, this bill will help to increase fairness, simplify the tax code, and improve coordination between Pell Grants and the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC),” said TICAS President, Lauren Asher.The complete list of organizational support includes: American Association of Community Colleges (AACC), American Council on Education (ACE), Association of American Universities (AAU) , Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities (AJCU), Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU), Hispanic Association of Colleges & Universities (HACU), Institute for Higher Education Policy (IHEP), National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU), National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA), National College Access Network (NCAN), National Education Association (NEA), National Urban League, Service Employees International Union (SEIU), The Institute for College Access and Success (TICAS), United Negro College Fund (UNCF), Young Invincibles. #
08.31.2016	Washington, D.C – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that $750,000 in federal funds will be awarded to the California Department of Transportation under the Federal Highway Administration’s Surface Transportation System Funding Alternative Program (STSFA). These funds were awarded to further build upon the Mileage-Based Fee Pilot Program (SB 1077) that DeSaulnier established during his time in the California State Senate. This pilot program will explore alternative funding mechanisms necessary to advance the construction and maintenance of California’s roads, bridges and transit systems. This funding was authorized in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which was signed into law by President Obama on December 4, 2015. “Given the inability of the Highway Trust Fund to sustain needed roadway and bridge repair across the country, states are leading the way in identifying innovative funding alternatives. I am pleased California was well positioned to take advantage of this federal funding opportunity as a result of SB 1077. Our state will be at the forefront of finding innovative ways to improve safety and reduce congestion for Bay Area commuters,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. The FAST Act established the Surface Transportation System Funding Alternatives Program to provide grants to states or groups of states to demonstrate user-based alternative revenue mechanisms that utilize a user fee structure to maintain the long-term solvency of the Highway Trust Fund. Earlier this year, Congressman DeSaulnier was a keynote speaker at the Mileage-Based User Fee Alliance’s Annual Conference, where he encouraged transportation leaders to adopt similar state policies to replace the losses in gas tax revenue. #
08.30.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Ted Lieu (CA-33) called on House Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) to initiate an immediate investigation into the egregious overprescribing of opioid prescription painkillers and the inaction of Purdue Pharma and other pharmaceutical companies that may be aware of inappropriate opioid distribution by bad actors. Recent reports by the Los Angeles Times exposed that Purdue Pharma, the maker of the highly addictive painkiller OxyCotin, collected extensive evidence on the overprescribing and illegal trafficking of the substance for more than a decade, yet the company failed to notify the appropriate federal and state authorities. During the course of their inaction, sales of OxyCotin at some pharmacies increased by over 1400 percent. Overdose deaths involving prescription opioids have quadrupled since 1999, and simultaneously so have sales of these prescription drugs. “Despite receiving evidence from pharmacists and its own employees regarding suspected criminal trafficking of opioids, Purdue Pharma reportedly refused to take action and continued to engage in irresponsible practices that may have violated the law. In California, I was a leader in the fight to improve the state prescription drug monitoring program to prevent overprescribing by physicians and doctor shopping. Congress has a responsibility to investigate pharmaceutical companies that work around these reporting systems, ignore reports of illegal activity, disregard patient safety for the sake of profits, and endanger the public health,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “I am troubled to learn of Purdue Pharma’s inappropriate opioid distribution practices. Reports indicating Purdue Pharma knowingly disregarded evidence of criminal drug trafficking of its drug reveals the company’s clear negligence for patient safety, medical ethics, and legal responsibilities all for the sake of profit. The fact that the United States is in the midst of an opioid overdose epidemic is cause for serious concern and we must hold those responsible accountable. As a member of the House Oversight Committee, I urge the Committee to initiate an investigation into this matter,” said Congressman Ted Lieu. Click here to read a full copy of the letter sent to Chairman Jason Chaffetz. To read complete coverage of Purdue Pharma by the Los Angeles Times click here. #
08.29.2016	Richmond, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to UC Berkeley’s announcement regarding the indefinite suspension of the Global Campus in Richmond. “While we are deeply disappointed about the announced suspension of the UC Berkeley Global Campus in Richmond, we will continue to work with the city, the UC system, our national labs, and the state to pursue every opportunity to develop this valuable site for the benefit of our residents and the community,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
08.25.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) today announced the second annual Congressional App Challenge (CAC), an app competition for U.S. high school students. High school students who live or attend school in California’s 11th Congressional District are invited to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. “I am excited to announce the kickoff of our 2016 Congressional App Challenge. This competition provides a unique opportunity for high school students to demonstrate their STEM skills. I invite students from across California’s 11th Congressional District to join their peers throughout the nation in showcasing the creativity of our young programmers,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The Challenge submission period will run from August 25, 2016 through November 2, 2016. Congressman DeSaulnier will recognize the submissions at a special ceremony in his District Office and the winner will be selected by a panel of local judges who work within the academic, software, and entrepreneurial fields. The winning app from California’s 11th Congressional District will be featured on the House of Representatives website with the winning apps from other Congressional districts. Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is a nationwide event intended to engage students' creativity and encourage their participation in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation's young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The Internet Education Foundation will be serving as the operational “sponsor” of the CAC. For further information about the Congressional App Challenge, please visit desaulnier.house.gov/congressional-app-challenge. #
07.27.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will host six town hall meetings in the communities of Richmond, Danville, Orinda, Rossmoor, Concord, and Pittsburg during the month of August. One of DeSaulnier’s top priorities is to be accessible to his constituents. Since being elected to Congress in January 2015, Mark has hosted 23 town hall meetings and mobile district office hours throughout Contra Costa County. “Hearing directly from the residents of Contra Costa County helps make me a better representative. It is my hope that these town hall meetings will serve as a place for constituents to share their thoughts and opinions on issues important to our community. I invite you to join me at a town hall meeting to listen to a Congressional update on key policy issues, learn about our legislative work in Congress, and discuss the broad range of services we can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Richmond Town Hall Monday, August 1, 2016 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.(Check-in begins at 6:00 p.m.) Richmond City Council Chambers 440 Civic Center Plaza First Floor Richmond, CA 94804 Danville Town Hall Wednesday, August 3, 2016 7:00 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.(Check-in begins at 6:30 p.m.) Veterans Memorial Building Community Hall 400 Hartz Avenue Danville, CA 94526Orinda Town Hall Saturday, August 6, 2016 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.(Check-in begins at 10:30 a.m.) Orinda Library Auditorium 26 Orinda Way Orinda, CA 94563Rossmoor Town Hall Saturday, August 6, 2016 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. (Check-in begins at 12:30 p.m.) Rossmoor, Fireside Room 1001 Golden Rain Road Walnut Creek, CA 94595Concord Town Hall Monday, August 8, 2016 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.(Check-in begins at 6:00 p.m.) Concord City Council Chambers 1950 Parkside Drive Concord, CA 94519 Pittsburg Town Hall Wednesday, August 10, 2016 6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m.(Check-in begins at 6:00 p.m.) Pittsburg Senior Center 300 Presidio Lane Pittsburg, CA 94565 For more information or to request ADA accommodations, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660 #
07.08.2016	Washington, DC -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement today in response to the release of a Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) scathing report on “Roadside Safety Hardware Oversight, Testing and Data Collection.” DeSaulnier joined Senate colleagues in requesting the report after faulty guardrails caused numerous tragic injuries and the loss of life, including Bay Area resident and football star Darryl Blackmon, which resulted in a multi-million dollar legal judgment. “The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) disburses around $40 billion a year to states for highway projects, including roadside safety hardware such as guardrails and barrier walls. However, GAO found ‘the agency tasked with making sure this money is well spent – does little to ensure these devices are actually safe.’ In addition to failing to provide strong oversight, the GAO report found that FHWA allows conflicts of interest at crash testing facilities; out-of-date and less rigorous safety standards; has no plan to track the progress of installation under new safety standards; and is not able to assess which devices could be on the road for decades, but would fail modern safety standards. Media reports estimate more than 200,000 potentially unsafe guardrails may be on roads and highways. Particularly troubling is the revelation that FHWA ‘is doing little to evaluate whether guardrails have actually performed as they should, and have helped save lives instead of causing death and injury. Laboratory testing cannot replicate the effects of real-world roadside conditions and fails to provide vital information to stakeholders who make replacement or new product development decisions.’ Guardrails, barriers and terminals are put in place to protect us. In the event of an accident, the public should have full confidence they will do their job. I am working on legislation to address the issues raised by GAO.” Earlier this year, DeSaulnier successfully included an amendment in the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, commonly referred to as the highway reauthorization bill, directing the Department of Transportation to study ways to improve data collection on highway safety hardware devices including guardrails, barriers, terminals, and railings. This was the first step in a series of items DeSaulnier is working on to keep the public safe. The full report can be found here #
07.08.2016	Washington, DC --- Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before the Oversight & Government Reform Committee. “FBI Director Comey clearly demonstrated that the extensive, 12-month investigation of Secretary Clinton’s emails did not warrant prosecution. For the Republican presidential nominee, who immediately and outrageously claimed the entire system is rigged, we doubt he is aware that Director Comey was first appointed during the Bush Administration. Today’s hearing assured the country they can, and should, have confidence in public officials, like FBI Director Comey, who put the best interests of America and the U.S. Constitution ahead of partisan politics and self-aggrandizing. While there is no doubt Director Comey made the only appropriate decision given the facts, the Oversight & Government Reform Committee and Congress need to review lessons learned from Secretaries Powell, Rice and Clinton, and clarify best practices for communications and data security. Moving forward, the rules should be crystal clear to the Secretary of State and every State Department employee.” #
06.24.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will continue his longtime practice of meeting one-on-one with constituents during Mobile District Office Hours in Bay Point on Saturday, June 25th from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Since being elected to Congress, DeSaulnier has hosted eight Mobile District Office Hours events throughout Contra Costa County. “Our Mobile District Office Hours serve as an important opportunity for constituents to voice their opinions on issues impacting our community, discuss legislation, and learn how our office can be of assistance. I encourage everyone to stop by during Unity in the Community at the Ambrose Community Center on Saturday. I look forward to seeing you there,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be on hand to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, June 25th from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Where: Ambrose Community Center, 3105 Willow Pass Road, Bay Point, CA First-come, first-served. No appointment necessary. Event is open to all residents of California’s 11th congressional district. For more information or to confirm you are a resident of the 11th district, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
06.17.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will host a regional Bay Area Cancer Moonshot Summit to focus on accelerating progress in cancer prevention, diagnosis, and treatment on Wednesday, June 29th at John Muir Medical Center in Concord. The event will include panel discussions with cancer researchers, doctors, survivors, and advocates. This summit, and others like it across the country, will be held in conjunction with the first-of-its-kind national conference hosted by Vice President Joe Biden in Washington, D.C. The Vice President will participate in the summit by making remarks via video and conference call. “Since publically sharing my cancer diagnosis earlier this year, I have been deeply touched by the personal stories so many have shared, and I hope to put these experiences into action. It is important voices across the entire cancer community are represented as we double down on our efforts to find a cure,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Bay Area Cancer Moonshot Summit: When: Wednesday, June 29, 2016 1:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Where: John Muir Medical Center, ConcordConference Room 2540 East Street Concord, CA 94520 (Main Entrance on Almond Ave.) This event is open to the public, press, and photographers. Agenda will be provided upon request. Members of the public should RSVP to ca11.rsvp@mail.house.gov Press should RSVP to desaulnier.press@mail.house.gov The National Cancer Moonshot Initiative, led by Vice President Biden, aims to make more therapies available to more patients, while improving our ability to prevent cancer and detect it at an early stage. https://www.cancer.gov/research/key-initiatives/moonshot-cancer-initiative #
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Mike Thompson (CA-5) and Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) today announced a $1,062,176 Early Head Start – Child Care Partnership grant for Contra Costa County. The funding made available by this grant will be used to provide Early Head Start services to 72 children and their families at 20 licensed Family Child Care homes and two centers throughout Contra Costa County. The Early Head Start – Child Care Partnership grant is unique in that it allows agencies to partner with local providers who are already serving children through state subsidies, the goal being to strengthen existing programs by bringing Head Start’s comprehensive services directly to children and their families. "Head Start and Early Head Start programs are of tremendous value to our community,” said Rep. Thompson. "I am proud to have helped secure these federal funds, which will help make sure all students, regardless of where they live or how much money their parents make, have equal access to a quality education from the day they first step foot in a classroom.” “As a former Head Start Commissioner, I have witnessed firsthand the positives effects these programs have on exciting students, empowering communities, and strengthening the future of America. Thanks in large part to Head Start services, I have seen students regardless of socioeconomic status across Contra Costa County succeed. I look forward to watching the impact this grant will have on our students and our community,” said Rep. DeSaulnier. "We are excited to have successfully completed an 18 month start up period for this grant and to be formally beginning year one of the five year grant cycle for the Early Head Start –Child Care Partnership. Our partners, the Contra Costa Child Care Council and First Baptist Head Start, are committed to the partnership and are high quality programs to begin with, making the start-up an easy and fruitful process as we learn together. Most encouraging is hearing our regional office remark that they, too, are learning alongside of the newly funded program,” said Christina Reich, Division Manager at the Contra Costa County Employment and Human Services Department. Specifically, the funds will be used to: Increase Head Start enrollment in Early Head Start; now serving 383 infants and toddlers in Contra Costa County. Incentivize local partnerships between Early Head Start programs and community-based child care programs to increase the number of infants and toddlers in high quality early learning programs. Increase rate of pay for Family Child Care Providers, thereby building the workforce. Increase teacher qualifications, safety standards, educational standards, and family and community engagement opportunities through strict adherence to the Head Start Performance Standards. Head Start is a federal program that promotes school readiness for children ages birth to 5 from low-income families by enhancing their cognitive, social and emotional development. Head Start programs provide comprehensive services to enrolled children and their families, which include health, nutrition, social services and other services determined to be necessary by family needs assessments, in addition to education and cognitive development services. For every dollar spent on Head Start, our country realizes almost nine dollars in benefits through participants' increased earnings, decreased welfare dependence and other factors. Head Start was founded as part of Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty in 1965. Since then, Head Start has grown from an eight-week demonstration project to include full day/year services and numerous program options. Head Start has served over 31 million children and their families in urban and rural areas in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. territories. The reauthorization of the Head Start Act in 1994 made it possible to establish Early Head Start as a program to serve infants and toddlers under the age of 3 and pregnant women. Early Head Start provides early, continuous, intensive and comprehensive child development and family support services to low-income infants, toddlers, pregnant women and their families. #
06.01.2016	Walnut Creek – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced legislation to prevent incidents in which federal law enforcement officers’ service weapons are lost or stolen. Earlier this week, a loaded Glock 27 was stolen out of an FBI agent’s car in San Francisco. This is just one example of a concerning trend involving a stolen weapon from federal law enforcement in the San Francisco area. “Locking a firearm when it is not in use should be a no-brainer. Yet, there are almost 80 federal law enforcement agencies and none are required to have standards for officers to safely store and lock their guns when they are not in use,” explained Congressman DeSaulnier. DeSaulnier’s bill, the Federal Law Enforcement and Public Protection Act, would require standards for federal law enforcement officers to lock their guns when not in use and to institute a reporting mechanism to better understand the frequency and severity of this problem. The bill also provides officers with information about the dangers of keeping an unlocked weapon in the home. “We need to take action before another life is lost. Federal law enforcement agencies should be accountable for officers’ weapons both on and off the job. This bill will help ensure law enforcement has standards and information on the best ways to safely and securely store firearms,” said DeSaulnier. At least two people were murdered with a gun stolen from a federal law enforcement officer in 2015. The lives of Kathryn Steinle and Antonio Ramos were tragically cut short in separate incidents by criminals using firearms stolen from the unattended vehicles of federal law enforcement agents. In addition to incidents in San Francisco, there have recently been several reports in the media of federal law enforcement officers either having their service weapons stolen or misplacing them, including the Capitol Police and the Secret Service. #
05.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA) introduced legislation to better inform patients, doctors, and pharmacists on prescription drug dispensing. The Empowering Pharmacists in the Fight Against Opioid Abuse Act (H.R. 5314) would require federal agencies to improve training programs and materials to better educate pharmacists and health professionals on the circumstances under which they are allowed by law to decline to fill a prescription for a controlled substance. Such circumstances include the suspicion of fraudulency, forgery, or other forms of alteration. "As a longtime advocate of measures to curb the rise of prescription drug abuse, I understand the vital role that pharmacists play as our ‘last line of defense’ against those who seek to abuse the system. Pharmacists must use their professional judgement when deciding to fill a prescription. However, it is not always clear when they can legally decline to dispense controlled substances based on reasonable suspicions. Our commonsense measure creates a much needed framework for pharmacists to know when, how, and if they can deny a prescription. I want to thank Representative Carter for reaching across the aisle to partner with me to help address a complex issue that continues to touch the lives of millions of Americans and their families,” said Representative DeSaulnier. “As a community pharmacist for more than thirty years, I know firsthand that the fight against prescription drug abuse is a team effort and pharmacists play a critical role. In many cases, pharmacists are the last line of defense against patients plagued with addiction or interested in wrongdoing. Pharmacists not only have a legal, but a moral obligation to decline filling a prescription if there are concrete reasons to do so and this legislation will ensure this is possible by providing pharmacists and health care professionals with the tools they need when faced with this situation. I want to thank Representative DeSaulnier for working with me on the fight against prescription drug abuse and I am confident that together we will combat this epidemic once and for all,” said Representative Carter. The bill would require the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), in consultation with other federal agencies, to establish programs and materials to train pharmacists, health care providers, and patients on best practices that ensure controlled substances are only dispensed when there is a valid prescription that is issued for a legitimate medical purpose. Prescription drug abuse is a national epidemic. In fact, Americans currently make up only 5% of the world’s population, but consume more than 80% of the worlds opioids. Last week, a DeSaulnier/Carter measure to expand multi-state drug monitoring programs was included in a comprehensive opioid abuse package passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. #
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) made the following statement on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY2017 which passed the U.S House of Representatives by a vote of 277 to 147. “Ensuring the safety and security of our country and our troops should be Congress’s top priority. During a time of such international volatility, providing our military with the resources they need to fight traditional and nontraditional threats is imperative. This year's NDAA is a missed opportunity to strengthen our military’s position as a force of peace and freedom in the world. This bill diminishes not only our military readiness, but also our international reputation. Among its problematic provisions are budgeting gimmicks to mask funding cuts, weakening worker protections, further discriminating against LGBT individuals in the armed forces, and restricting closure of perhaps the ugliest mark on our national record: Guantanamo Bay. For these reasons, I voted against the bill. Although the bill was not strong enough to support, I am pleased to have included a provision that would require the Navy to investigate the treatment of the Port Chicago 50. While the past cannot be erased, these brave men deserve to have their records corrected and justice served on their behalf. For those who are separating from the military, I also included a measure to provide servicemembers the information they need to make informed financial decisions when reentering civilian life.” The following DeSaulnier amendments were passed as part of the NDAA: A provision that would require the U.S. Navy to investigate whether racial bias was experienced by the African American sailors convicted of mutiny at Port Chicago, and to report its findings to Congress. After a devastating explosion at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine in 1944 that killed and injured more than 700 servicemembers and civilians, 50 sailors were unjustly convicted of mutiny as they fought for the training and recognition necessary to ensure their safety on the job. A bipartisan measure offered with Republican Walter Jones (NC-3) that would provide financial transparency for servicemembers separating from the Armed Services. Servicemembers leaving the military often receive separation pay to facilitate their reentrance into civilian life. However, many veterans discover too late that their disability benefits can be reduced or withheld by the federal government until the full amount of their separation payment is recouped; preventing them from properly planning for the future. Over the last five years, the Department of Veterans Affairs withheld disability compensation from almost 25,000 separating veterans. This amendment simply requires that each separating servicemember is informed of the possibility of the conflict between separation and disability pay. #
05.13.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the US House of Representatives passed a package of bipartisan bills aimed at addressing the opioid abuse crisis including the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act (H.R. 5046). This bill would authorize $103 million in grants to states for programs aimed at providing substance abuse treatment. Included in the bill is a bipartisan measure introduced by Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (R-GA), which would allow grant funding to be used for the development of interoperable multi-state Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs). California and Georgia are among the states utilizing PDMPs. “Prescription drug abuse is an epidemic that impacts families and communities across our country. By tracking the sale and purchase of prescription drugs both within and between states we can greatly reduce ‘doctor shopping.’ Drug addiction is a preventable disease, and I am proud to have championed legislation as a state senator to fully implement California’s existing PDMP that has successfully registered over 200,000 prescribers and dispensers. On a national level, our bipartisan measure will bolster new and existing PDMPs by helping to develop multi-state monitoring programs to prevent addicts from crossing state lines to fill prescriptions. I thank Representative Buddy Carter for working with me to improve the effectiveness of one of the most important tools in the fight against opioid abuse,” said Representative DeSaulnier. “As a lifelong pharmacist and the author of the Georgia Prescription Drug Monitoring Program, I know firsthand that Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs are key to fighting prescription drug abuse in America,” said Representative Carter. “To increase the effectiveness of these programs, states must be able to work together. Unfortunately, today, most states are not interoperable and that is why this amendment is so important. States should have every opportunity to share information effectively and efficiently about patients and the patterns that occur with interstate prescription drug trafficking. I thank Representative Sensenbrenner for the underlying legislation and Representative DeSaulnier for working with me to ensure Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs are as effective as possible.” According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), prescription drug abuse has risen to epidemic proportions over the last decade. It is estimated that 44 Americans die every day from a prescription painkiller overdose. The bipartisan package of bills, including H.R. 5046, now moves to a House and Senate conference committee, and is expected to be signed into law in the near future. #
05.11.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) unveiled his new Congressional website, which can be accessed at www.desaulnier.house.gov. The new site features a clean, modern design that provides constituents with the latest news impacting their community, information about constituent services, and opportunities to connect with the Congressman. “Our new, redesigned website provides a streamlined platform for constituents to connect with my office and the federal government. I encourage everyone to visit our new site to learn about key legislative issues, request assistance with a federal agency, and share opinions about how the government can best serve the American people. It is my hope that our new design will facilitate greater engagement with the community, and I look forward to incorporating the feedback we receive into my work in Congress,” said Representative DeSaulnier. The new streamlined website will allow constituents to: Stay abreast of the latest community news Request assistance with federal agencies Learn about Representative DeSaulnier’s priorities Share their experiences with the federal government and opinions on key issues facing Congress Invite Representative DeSaulnier to events Connect with Representative DeSaulnier’s Washington, Walnut Creek, and Richmond offices #
05.05.2016	“Last summer, I was diagnosed with the most common leukemia in the world, a cancer named Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). I recently completed aggressive chemotherapy. I feel fortunate that I had a positive response to this treatment, and that neither CLL nor the treatment impacted my professional work. CLL is a chronic disorder many Americans face, which doctors liken to diabetes and hypertension. While CLL cannot currently be completely cured, incredible breakthroughs, medical advancements and cutting edge therapies are allowing it to be managed over a lifetime. As a result of these developments, there are approximately 1.2 million Americans, like myself, living long, full lives with blood cancer. Before sharing my diagnosis, I had much to consider personally and professionally. My doctors assured me that people with CLL, myself included, could continue to work and function at a high level. The medical professionals were right; I have been able to go home every weekend, except one, logging over 170,000 miles flown, held 14 town halls, had meetings with thousands of constituents, and maintained a 99.1% voting average in my first session of Congress. By publicly sharing my story, I hope to add my voice to the growing number of people fighting cancer and the other chronic conditions so many families confront. I look forward to continuing to serve the people of our district, and do so stronger and with a better understanding having faced this experience.” #
05.03.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – On Monday night, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced the Grand Prize winner of the 2016 “Eleventh Congressional District High School Art Competition,” Concord High School senior Ryan Shu, whose winning piece consisted of a digital photograph entitled “The Golden Escape.” The competition is a juried art show open to all high school students who are residents of California’s Eleventh Congressional District. “This year’s Congressional Art Competition showcased the incredible talent and passion of young artists in our district. I congratulate all of the students who participated and look forward to showcasing artwork from our Grand Prize winner, Ryan Shu, in the United States Capitol,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The runners-up, whose artwork will be displayed in Congressman DeSaulnier’s district offices, included Lu Wang’s piece entitled “Equity in America” and Moira Brown’s piece entitled “Faces.” The awards ceremony was held at John F. Kennedy University and the winning pieces were selected by the following judges: Michelle Krup, Diablo Valley College Art and Photography Department Instructor Donna Fenstermaker, Contra Costa College Professor of Drawing and Composition Warren Dean, Concord High School Art Teacher and Visual and Performing Art Department Chair The winning piece from the Eleventh Congressional District, along with winning artwork from all 50 states, will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for the next year. This summer, the winner and a guest will visit Washington, DC for a national reception honoring winners from across the country to celebrate the opening of the Capitol Exhibition. Since 1982, over 650,000 high school students from around the nation have participated in the Congressional Art Competition, which has allowed Members of Congress to acknowledge the artistic talents of their young constituents. Photo caption: The 2016 Congressional Art Competition winning artwork entitled "The Golden Escape" by Concord High School student Ryan Shu. #
05.03.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will tour local small businesses in Todos Santos Plaza in Concord on Friday, May 6th as part of National Small Business Week. During the tour, he will meet with local business owners to explore which policies Congress should focus on to support small businesses and spur job creation. “Small businesses stimulate our economy and are the engine of job creation in the United States. As a former small business owner, I look forward to hearing from our local business community and discussing ways to better meet the needs of this vital sector of our economy,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Small Business Visits: When: Friday, May 6, 2016Where: Sugar Plum Coffee Shop 1815 Colfax Street Concord, CA 94520Time: 12:30 pm Where: The Parlor Barber Shop 2230 Salvio Street Concord, CA 94520Time: 12:45 pm Where: Loard’s Ice Cream 2151 Salvio Street, Concord Concord, CA 94520Time: 1:00 pm These events are open to the press. Earlier on Friday, Congressman DeSaulnier will be the keynote speaker at the East Bay Leadership Council’s Small Business Awards in Concord to highlight the importance of job creation and economic development in Contra Costa County. #
05.02.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced he will be marking the 12th stop on his Education Listening Tour at Canyon Elementary School this Tuesday, May 3rd. Last year, DeSaulnier, who serves on the House Education and the Workforce Committee, launched the tour to discuss our education system and to hear firsthand from students, parents, educators, and school administrators. Congressman DeSaulnier is visiting every school district in his Congressional district. “As a member of the Education and Workforce Committee, it is important for me to hear firsthand from students and teachers in our community about the challenges they face in the classroom. Discussions like these are the foundation of innovative policy solutions that will benefit families across California and the nation,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Open to press and photographers. When: Tuesday, May 3, 2016Where: Canyon Elementary School 187 Pinehurst Road Canyon, CA 94516 Time: 1:30 pm to 3:00 pm #
04.28.2016	Washington, DC – Today, the Committee on Armed Services in the U.S. House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), H.R. 4909, which authorizes our nation’s defense spending. Included in the bill is a provision offered by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), which would require the Navy to investigate the circumstances surrounding the treatment of sailors at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine in Concord, California. The NDAA now moves to the floor of the House for consideration. “Today marks an important milestone in the continued fight for recognition of the Port Chicago 50. A provision requiring the Navy to investigate whether racial bias was experienced by this group and to report their findings to Congress passed in the Armed Services Committee and is one step closer to becoming law,” said DeSaulnier. While facing institutional segregation in the Navy, 435 African American sailors, who were not properly trained or supported, were killed or injured when a cargo vessel exploded. This incident accounted for more than 15 percent of all African American Naval casualties during World War II. When 50 of these men understandably refused to return to the unsafe working conditions that killed their fellow sailors, they were discriminately charged and convicted of mutiny. “I appreciate the support this measure received from my colleagues, and I will continue working to move this legislative effort forward until all of these sailors are completely exonerated,” DeSaulnier concluded. #
04.21.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Peter Welch (VT–At Large), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), and Ted Lieu (CA-33) introduced legislation to establish criminal penalties under the Clean Air Act for automakers that knowingly use so-called “defeat devices” in motor vehicles to bypass emissions tests and violate environmental standards. The Clean Air and Vehicle Technology Accountability Act (H.R. 5024) was introduced following an agreement between Volkswagen (VW) and U.S. regulators, which allows the company to avoid going to trial for its installation of such devices. “Having had a long history in the California air regulatory field, this is an extreme example, but not unique that a company has chosen to violate public health law and then cut a deal without the decision makers taking personal responsibility. This legislation will address decades of fraudulent actions by industry bad actors,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “Volkswagen customers are still mad as hell about being deceived by the car marker—and they should be. The company’s decision to secretly install a device in cars that bypasses environmental protections was a sham of massive proportions and has eroded the trust of its customers and the public. Our legislation will make auto executives think twice before deciding to rip off their customers and damage the environment,” said Congressman Peter Welch. “The centerpiece of our efforts over the past half-century to reduce vehicle air pollution has been ever-tightening emissions standards. Engineering technology into vehicles to defeat these standards is not only deceiving and cheating the consumers buying these vehicles, but it is doing actual harm to all Americans in the form of greater air pollution. If we are to deter future violations, companies who violate the public trust must be held accountable,” said Congressman Alan Lowenthal. “Misleading American consumers while threatening our environment should come with heavy penalties. Right now, we lack the ability to truly hold bad actors accountable – even when they manufacture ways to cheat the system. This legislation makes very simple changes that will ensure companies think twice before shirking emissions standards intended to protect our environment, and that their punishment fits their crime when they break the law. I’m proud to join my colleagues as an original cosponsor,” said Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Clean Air and Vehicle Technology Accountability Act. What Volkswagen did was criminal, and prosecutors should be able to bring forward criminal charges against them. Volkswagen deceived millions of people by cheating their emissions tests and unleashed massive amounts of toxic pollutants into the air, harming Americans’ health and contributing to climate change. Volkswagen must be held accountable, and I hope that justice will be served,” Congressman Ted W. Lieu. The Clean Air and Vehicle Technology Accountability Act (H.R. 5024) would amend Title II of the Clean Air Act to give authorities the ability to bring criminal charges against automakers who knowingly bypass, defeat, or render inoperable air pollution control monitors in motor vehicles. Current estimates suggest that 11 million VW vehicles worldwide were built with some version of emission evasion software installed, allowing for vehicles to emit up to 40 times the limit under the law. Nearly 600,000 of these vehicles sold across the U.S. #
04.14.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) received the Human Advocate award for his 100% rating on the 2015 Humane Society Legislative Scorecard. Only over one-quarter of all Members of the House of Representatives received a perfect rating. “I am proud to work with the Humane Society to protect the ethical and humane treatment of animals in our area and around the world. This year, we fought to prevent animal cruelty and torture, stop animal testing for cosmetics, and protect critical habitats to preserve endangered species. I will continue building on this work, and what we accomplished in the state legislature, to safeguard animals and those who love them,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier, a member of the Animal Protection Caucus. “Congressman DeSaulnier has been a strong and consistent advocate for protecting animals from cruelty and abuse,” said Michael Markarian, President of the Humane Society Legislative Fund. “We are grateful for his work to protect animals from malicious cruelty, and to crack down on abusive practices such as horse slaughter and ivory trafficking.” The Humane Society’s Scorecard is published annually to give Americans a snapshot of their legislator’s record on animal protection issues. The grades given are based on a Member’s sponsorship of pro-animal bills, key votes, and continued protection of major animal welfare laws. The full Scorecard can be found here. Photo caption: Congressman DeSaulnier honored by Humane Society as a recipient of the Human Advocate award by Wayne Pacelle, President & CEO of the Humane Society. #
04.12.2016	Walnut Creek, CA -- Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the agreement between BART and the transit unions: “I am grateful a tentative agreement has been reached between BART and the transit unions. If approved, there will be no interruptions in services for Bay Area commuters. I look forward to reviewing full details of the 5-year deal with an eye towards the long-term financial stability and sustainability of BART. On the federal level, I will continue to advocate for meaningful performance standards for transit agencies to ensure the public is getting its value.” #
03.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a member of the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform (OGR), called on Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) to convene a hearing to look into long-standing criticisms of the National Football League's (NFL) actions related to concussions. Last week, the New York Times reported that data gathered by the NFL between 1996 and 2001 to study the dangers of concussions excluded at least ten percent of head injuries diagnosed by team doctors from its findings. “Blatant gaps in data collection and analysis undermine the credibility of the NFL’s concussion studies and call into question the League’s commitment to fully understanding the dangers associated with the sport. These reports clearly slowed the march toward safer techniques, better technology, and improved education on football fields across the United States, and provided false comfort to coaches, student athletes, and parents,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “While the NFL relinquished its long-held tax exempt status last year, the League still enjoys certain antitrust exemptions allowing it to act as a monopoly, making their actions and policies uniquely provocative to Congress and our committee. In the interest of providing our parents and coaches with the information they need to determine the long-term impacts of all contact sports on student athletes, it is my hope that you will convene a hearing to better understand the NFL’s position and ongoing efforts regarding concussion-related research,” concluded DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier has been a fierce advocate for educating America’s youth about the potential negative consequences of traumatic brain injuries (TBI), including concussions. He is the author of the Protecting Student Athletes from Concussions Act (H.R. 2062), which creates nationwide standards on concussion safety. Click here for a full copy of Congressman DeSaulnier’s letter to OGR Chairman Chaffetz. #
03.24.2016	Washington, DC – Amid California’s ongoing drought, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Jerry McNerney (CA-9) introduced the Sustainable Water Supplies Act (H.R. 4862) to increase the water supply in areas of Northern California by expediting the expansion of the Los Vaqueros Reservoir in Contra Costa County. The reservoir is a 160,000 acre-foot storage facility built in response to the state’s last historic drought in 1977. It was last expanded in 2012 to meet local water needs, and is permitted to be nearly triple its current size. “As we enter the fifth year of a devastating drought, it is long past the time to find ways to guarantee fresh, clean water for the residents of Contra Costa County and the surrounding area. Our local industry and economy would greatly benefit from a sustainable water source without the public spending a single federal dollar. An expansion of our water supply at no federal cost is a no-brainer," said Congressman DeSaulnier. “I am happy to support environmentally sound storage projects like Los Vaqueros. This bill will promote an important expansion to an essential reservoir at no cost to the government and could provide even more water supply reliability in the region. We must move toward regional self-sufficiency, and responsible water infrastructure projects like Los Vaqueros are an important part of that process,” said Congressman Jerry McNerney. “We thank Congressman DeSaulnier and Congressman McNerney for their efforts in support of water storage projects in California. Further expansion of the reservoir and conveyance facilities would broaden the regional water supply benefits and protection of Delta fisheries. CCWD looks forward to this opportunity to demonstrate how partnerships with local agencies who use space in the reservoir can help us meet our regional needs,” said Lisa M. Borba, Vice President of the Contra Costa Water District. The legislation outlines a phased approach for the expansion of the reservoir with the help of the Federal Bureau of Reclamation. Under the first step, outside water districts would lease extra space in the existing 160,000-acre-foot reservoir to store surplus water. The reservoir would later be enlarged to up to 500,000 acre feet after enough agencies or water districts agree to share costs and become partners in the planned expansion. #
03.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier announced his office is accepting submissions for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Eligible high school students may submit their original artwork through April 25, 2016. The competition is a juried art show open to all high school students who are residents of the Eleventh Congressional District of California. A winner will be selected by a panel of local judges at a reception following the submission deadline. “The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity for students in Contra Costa County to showcase their artwork. I look forward to seeing this year’s creative and unique entries and welcoming the winner to Washington,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The winning piece from the Eleventh Congressional District, along with winning artwork from all 50 states, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for the next year. This summer, the winner and a guest will visit Washington, DC for a national reception honoring winners from across the country to celebrate the opening of the Capitol Exhibition. Since 1982, over 650,000 high school students from around the nation have participated in the Congressional Art Competition, which has allowed Members of Congress to acknowledge the artistic talents of their young constituents. Contest forms and guidelines are available at Congressman DeSaulnier’s website at www.desaulnier.house.gov/services/art-competition #
03.03.2016	Antioch, CA – Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Jerry McNerney (CA-09) will host a joint town hall meeting in Antioch on Wednesday, March 9th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Both Members of Congress represent a part of the City of Antioch. This unique forum will be an opportunity for residents to receive a Congressional update on key issues of importance to their community and learn more about the broad range of constituent services the Representatives’ offices can provide. What: Representatives DeSaulnier and McNerney’s Joint Town Hall Meeting in Antioch When: Wednesday, March 9, 2016, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm Where: Antioch Middle School, 1500 D Street, Antioch, CA 94509 For more information or to request ADA accommodations, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660.
03.02.2016	Washington, DC – As part of their ongoing effort to bring attention to the injustice suffered by the Port Chicago 50, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Barbara Lee (CA-13) introduced a House Resolution (H. Res. 616) calling for the public exoneration of the African American sailors who were wrongfully convicted following the deadliest home front disaster of World War II at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine in California. The resolution is co-sponsored by several Members of Democratic Leadership, and the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), and has won the endorsement of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). After experiencing segregation in the Navy, 435 African American munitions sailors, who were not properly trained or supported, were killed or injured when a cargo vessel exploded. This incident accounted for more than 15 percent of all African American Naval casualties during WWII. When 50 of these men understandably refused to return to the unsafe working conditions that killed their fellow sailors, they were discriminately charged and convicted of mutiny. “The Port Chicago 50 were called upon to fight for our country, but ended up fighting for their own lives. It is long past time to recognize this injustice and to set the record straight. There is no better moment in America to unite against discrimination and inequality. We cannot truly move forward until we correct the mistakes of our past,” said Representative Mark DeSaulnier. “The Port Chicago 50 were devoted patriots who served their country and played an essential role in the World War II home front effort. As the daughter of a veteran, I commend the 258 African-American sailors who refused to return to work until working conditions were safe and proper training was in place,” said Representative Barbara Lee. “Sadly, due to their act of bravery in the face of discrimination, 50 were tried and convicted of mutiny. Instead of hard labor sentences and dishonorable discharges, these brave sailors should be recognized for their courage. It’s past time to exonerate and honor these patriotic Americans for their bold stance for justice, the courage of their convictions and their tremendous service to our nation.” In a letter to Members of Congress, Hilary O. Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau and Senior VP for Policy and Advocacy, said, “our nation’s oldest, largest and most widely-recognized grassroots-based civil rights organization supports H.Res. 616 and the exoneration of the Port Chicago 50. In these days of increased racial and ethnic bigotry on the national stage, it is clear that steps must be taken to demonstrate that lessons have been learned from the past. A complete exoneration would be a step in the right direction.” The resolution has the support of more than 70 Members of the House, including Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra, and CBC members: Representatives Alma Adams, Karen Bass, Joyce Beatty, Sanford D. Bishop, Corrine Brown, G.K. Butterfield, André Carson, Yvette Clarke, Lacy Clay, Emanuel Cleaver II, James E. Clyburn, John Conyers Jr., Elijah Cummings, Danny K. Davis, Keith Ellison, Donna Edwards, Chaka Fattah, Marcia L. Fudge, Gwen Graham, Al Green, Alcee L. Hastings, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Sheila Jackson Lee, Hakeem Jeffries, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Hank Johnson, Brenda Lawrence, John Lewis, Betty McCollum, Gwen Moore, Donald Payne Jr., Stacey Plaskett, Charles B. Rangel, Cedric Richmond, Bobby L. Rush, David Scott, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Terri Sewell, Bennie Thompson, Marc Veasey, Maxine Waters, Bonnie Watson Coleman, and Frederica Wilson. California Representatives supporting the effort are Judy Chu, Jim Costa, Anna Eshoo, Sam Farr, John Garamendi, Janice Hahn, Jared Huffman, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Doris Matsui, Grace F. Napolitano, Raul Ruiz, Brad Sherman, Jackie Speier, Mark Takano, Mike Thompson, and Norma Torres. Last summer, Representatives DeSaulnier and Lee, along with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, sent a letter to President Obama asking him to do everything in his power to acknowledge the injustice suffered by these sailors and remove these racially biased convictions from their records. California Senators Boxer and Feinstein followed in sending a similar letter. #
02.29.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will host a town hall meeting in San Pablo on Monday, March 7th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Town halls are one part of DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. Since elected as a new Member of Congress, DeSaulnier has held eleven additional town halls throughout Contra Costa County and continues to hold listening tours across the district. “I invite residents to a Congressional update on the federal budget, infrastructure projects, prescription drug abuse, and other key issues of importance to our community. As we begin the legislative year, this is an opportunity to hear about the work we are doing on behalf of the district and to ask questions and share ideas. We will also discuss the broad range of constituent services my office can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in San Pablo When: Monday, March 7, 2016, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm Where: San Pablo Community Center, 2450 Road 20, San Pablo, CA 94806 For more information or to request ADA accommodations, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
02.29.2016	With Former National Football League (NFL) Players and John Muir Health Neurology Expert Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will host a concussion prevention event at Antioch High School on Friday, March 4th. The event will help educate students and parents on the dangers of concussions to student athletes and will offer suggestions for prevention. Over 450 student athletes are expected to be in attendance including members of Antioch High School’s football, basketball, wrestling, volleyball, soccer, and cross country teams. Congressman DeSaulnier is the author of the Protecting Student Athletes from Concussions Act (H.R. 2062) which creates nationwide standards on concussion safety. According to figures from the National Federation of State High School Associations, an estimated 140,000 students playing high school sports suffer concussions every year, though many go unreported. WHO: Congressman Mark DeSaulnier Akili Calhoun, Former Defensive Tackle for the Oakland Raiders Bobby Shaw, Former Wide Receiver for the Seattle Seahawks, Pittsburgh Steelers, Jacksonville Jaguars, Buffalo Bills, and San Diego Chargers William “Bubba” Paris, Former Offensive Lineman for the San Francisco 49ers David Hong, MD, Pediatric Neurosurgeon for John Muir Health WHAT: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Concussion Prevention Event WHEN: Friday, March 4th from 11:00 am to 12:00 pm WHERE: Antioch High School, Men's Gym, 700 W 18th Street, Antioch, CA 94509 OPEN TO PRESS AND PHOTOGRAPHERS. Press should RSVP to DeSaulnier.Press@mail.house.gov #
02.25.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will continue his longtime practice of meeting on-on-one with constituents during Mobile District Office Hours in Martinez on Saturday, March 5th from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm. Since elected as a new Member of Congress, DeSaulnier has held eleven town halls throughout Contra Costa County and continues to hold listening tours across the district. “We strive to be accessible to the people we serve, and invite Contra Costa County residents to join us in Martinez or at one of our future stops. This is an opportunity for constituents to talk with me about issues of importance or concern and learn about the constituent services my office can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be on hand to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, March 5th from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm Where: Contra Costa County, Department of Conservation and Development, 30 Muir Road, Martinez, CA 94553 First-come, first-served. No appointment necessary. Event is open to all residents of California’s 11th congressional district For more information or to confirm you are a resident of the 11th district, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
02.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced the winner of the Eleventh District 2015 Congressional App Challenge (CAC), Monte Vista High School junior Trisha Sanghal of Danville, whose winning app named “Music Makerz” seeks to facilitate the teaching and learning of music and helps coordinate music programs. The Congressional App Challenge is a competition aimed at encouraging U.S. high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education. "Trisha’s work showcases the young programming and innovation talent in our district. I am proud to congratulate her and look forward to seeing Music Makerz displayed at the U.S. Capitol,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The runners-up were Campolindo High School students Ray and Ross Altenberg from Moraga and their teammate Alan Brilliant from San Mateo, whose app increases accessibility to BART maps to assist commuters. Judges for the Eleventh District Congressional App Challenge were: Michael Fullmore, Pinterest, Systems Architect/Sales Mike Lawrence, Computer Using Educators (CUE), Chief Executive Officer Kimberly Paternoster, Wicked Code, Inc., President For more information on the Congressional App Challenge, please visit www.congressionalappchallenge.us Photo caption: Congressman DeSaulnier with 2015 Congressional App Challenge winner Trisha Sanghal (left) and runner-up Ray Altenberg (right). #
02.11.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier kicks off his first town hall of 2016 in Walnut Creek on Thursday, February 18th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Town halls are one part of DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding mobile district office hours and listening tours across the district. In his first year as a Member of Congress, DeSaulnier held 10 public forums throughout Contra Costa County. “I invite residents to a Congressional update on the President’s proposed budget, infrastructure projects, prescription drug abuse, and other key issues of importance to our community. As we begin the legislative year, this is an opportunity to hear about the work we are doing on behalf of the district and to ask questions and share ideas. We will also discuss the broad range of constituent services my office can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in Walnut Creek When: Thursday, February 18, 2016, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm Where: Walnut Creek City Hall, Council Chambers (First Floor), 1666 North Main Street, Walnut Creek, CA 94596 For more information or to request ADA accommodations, please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
01.20.2016	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) kicks off his 2016 Mobile District Office hours in Moraga on Saturday, January 23rd from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm. Mobile District Office Hours have long been a key part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding town hall meetings and listening tours across the district. “We are excited to kick off our 2016 Mobile District Office Hours, which are an opportunity to share thoughts on legislation in Congress and on issues impacting California and our communities. We welcome residents of Contra Costa County to join us in Moraga or at one of our future stops,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be on hand to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, January 23rd from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm. Where: St. Mary’s College, Filippi Academic Hall, Rooms 125 & 130, 1928 St. Mary's Rd., Moraga, CA 94556. First-come, first-served. No appointment necessary. For more information: please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
01.11.2016	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that his guest for the 2016 State of the Union address is Amanda Wilcox, Legislation and Policy Chair for the California Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. “Amanda is a national leader on gun violence prevention. As a state legislator, I partnered with Amanda to introduce common sense gun safety initiatives including the expansion of notification for lost and stolen firearms and smart gun technology. I look forward to continuing to work with Amanda at the federal level to reduce gun violence and make our communities safer, and I am thrilled she is joining me to hear the President further discuss his executive actions,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Amanda’s 19-year old daughter, Laura, was shot to death while working at a mental health clinic in 2001. This tragedy was the impetus for California’s Laura’s Law, which allows for the court-ordered assisted outpatient treatment for individuals with serious a mental illness who meet specific qualifications. #
01.05.2016	Washington DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) made the following statement after attending President Obama’s announcement on the Administration’s executive actions to reduce gun violence and make our communities safer. Last month, DeSaulnier requested that the President take executive action on a series of gun safety initiatives (letter here). Significant amongst these, after researching the issue, DeSaulnier found an opportunity to strengthen across the board procedures on how federal law enforcement officers store their guns so that the tragic situations that occurred in the Bay Area that resulted in the deaths of Kathryn Steinle and Antonio Ramos will not happen again. “I commend President Obama for taking necessary executive action to address the gun violence epidemic in our country. Twenty-six years ago my father took his life with a gun. Not a day goes by that I don't think of him, and that if we appropriately fund mental health research we could help millions of people who struggle with the same demons my Dad faced. In fact, although more attention is often paid to homicides, gun suicides account for more than 60 percent of gun related deaths. Today’s announcement includes critical investments in expanding mental health treatment and recordkeeping for background checks which are critical to this effort. I have long advocated for simple, reasonable reforms that will help save lives in California and across the nation. On average, 31 Americans are murdered with guns every day, and 151 are treated for gun assault in an emergency room. The firearm homicide rate in the United States is a shocking 20 times higher than the combined rates of 22 comparable countries. Today’s announcement is a courageous step in the right direction. The commonsense measures outlined by the President would greatly protect the lives of both our citizens and law enforcement officers. I look forward to working with the President on this and other gun safety efforts.” As a California legislator, Mark introduced legislation that would require gun owners to notify law enforcement if their firearms had been lost or stolen within 48-hours of reasonable discovery. He also introduced bills promoting the use of smart gun technology. #
12.22.2015	SACRAMENTO – Attorney General Kamala D. Harris and the California Department of Consumer Affairs today announced the universal launch of the new Controlled Substance Utilization Review and Evaluation System (“CURES 2.0”), a state-of-the-art overhaul of California’s prescription drug monitoring program that will allow health providers and pharmacists to more effectively flag at-risk patients and curb prescription drug abuse. “This innovative prescription drug database ensures that California continues to lead the fight against our country’s prescription drug abuse epidemic,” said Attorney General Harris. “Through the use of new technology, CURES 2.0 will save lives and improve public health while also providing a vastly improved user experience for healthcare professionals, regulatory boards, and law enforcement.” Starting January 8, 2016, current CURES users logging in with up-to-date and secure web browsers will be automatically redirected to the new 2.0 system. In anticipation of the launch, Attorney General Harris also sent a letter to members of the medical community urging them to only use secure software to access confidential and sensitive patient information. “CURES 2.0 will give California’s healthcare professionals who prescribe and dispense potent prescription drugs a powerful tool to better access and utilize patient information to help them identify individuals who are abusing these drugs,” said Awet Kidane, Director of the California Department of Consumer Affairs. “It is a direct result of the hard work and collaboration between the Department of Justice, the Department of Consumer Affairs, and the regulatory boards funding this project.” The online CURES database enables healthcare providers to review a patient’s medication history before prescribing new drugs, storing prescription records for all controlled substances classified as Schedule II, III, and IV. Over 5.5 million such requests have been processed so far in 2015 alone. In addition to providing users with faster and more reliable access to patient activity reports, the upgraded 2.0 system features cutting-edge analytics for flagging at-risk patients, allowing medical professionals to prescribe wisely and helping to prevent abuse or diversion of controlled medications such as opioids. “CURES 2.0 is without a doubt the most effective tool for doctors and pharmacists to help curb prescription drug abuse. Many lives will be saved in California,” said Bob Pack, a patient safety advocate. By law, all health practitioners licensed to prescribe or dispense scheduled medications are required to sign up for CURES by July 1, 2016. The launch of the new 2.0 system will also include the release of a new streamlined registration process, which will allow users to apply for access and verify their credentials entirely online using secure web browsers. CURES 2.0 was implemented through Senate Bill 809, legislation authored by former California State Senator Mark DeSaulnier and sponsored by Attorney General Harris in 2013. “The U.S. claims less than 5% of the world’s population, but consumes roughly 80% of the world’s opioid supply. Each day, 44 people in the U.S. die from an overdose of prescription painkillers. By launching CURES 2.0 and requiring all prescribers and pharmacists to enroll, California will be on the cutting edge of addressing this crisis. I am proud to have authored this law in the memory of the countless sons and daughters who were lost to this epidemic. I thank Attorney General Harris and Governor Brown for their years of work to ensure the modernization of CURES is a success,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). To learn more about CURES 2.0, visit https://oag.ca.gov/cures-pdmp. #
12.15.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) introduced bi-partisan legislation to improve accountability and oversight of so-called “megaprojects.” The “Transportation Megaprojects Accountability and Oversight Act” (H.R. 4228) would establish an independent peer review group to assess the quality assurance, cost containment, and risk management of federal highway and transportation projects that cost over $2.5 billion. While current law requires financial reporting requirements for projects costing more than $500 million, no additional oversight mechanisms exist for large, complex megaprojects. “Large infrastructure projects are vital to our country’s development and its economic growth. Yet, nine out of every 10 megaprojects experience cost overruns and many suffer significant delays that cost taxpayers millions of additional dollars. We’re building large scale projects all across the country and we should have both the benefit of lessons learned from existing projects and an independent outside analysis of future endeavors. The public deserves a system that manages costs, foresees risks, and holds decision-makers accountable,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Examples of such projects include: the San-Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, the I-265 Bridge between Kentucky and Indiana, the Big Dig in Boston, the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York, and Denver International Airport. H.R. 4228 would require agencies that receive federal funds for projects over $2.5 billion to submit a comprehensive risk management plan that includes a description of identified risks associated with the project, proposed mechanisms to manage such risks, updated cost estimates, among others. Additionally, it would establish an independent peer review group, with conflict of interest for greater transparency, consisting of a minimum of five individuals tasked with giving expert advice on scientific, technical, and management aspects of the megaproject. As the former Chairman of the California Senate Transportation Committee, DeSaulnier helped bring to light numerous issues including an extensive investigation and hearing on deficiencies with the Bay Bridge which led to $5 billion overrun and a 10-year delay. In 2013, then-Senator DeSaulnier authored legislation in California which similarly established the use of peer review processes for public work projects in the state. Congressman Doug LaMalfa (CA-1) is the Republican co-sponsor of H.R. 4228. #
12.11.2015	Washington, DC – Today, four amendments authored by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) were successfully signed into law by President Obama as part of the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177). This landmark measure overhauls the education law known as “No Child Left Behind.” “The Every Student Succeeds Act improves national education standards to ensure that all students receive a quality education. This important legislation prioritizes the academic progress of students with disabilities, low-income students, and English learners, regardless of race, gender or geography,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The following initiatives championed by Congressman DeSaulnier were included in the law: Measures to streamline Head Start programs and ensure maximum cooperation with local schools. Ability for schools to allocate resources to educate students and teachers on the dangers and effects of concussions; and Strengthens students’ access to support and “wraparound” services like tutoring, counseling, and other extracurricular activities. “I am proud to have successfully included measures to protect students both in and out of the classroom by streamlining Head Start programs, protecting student athletes from concussions, and providing students with academic and extracurricular support beyond the normal school day. This law also allows California to continue its new budgeting formula that provides more control and flexibility to schools and communities,” said DeSaulnier. “I applaud the passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act and thank U.S. Representative Mark Desaulnier for his leadership on the Education and Workforce committee in passing the legislation. I’m pleased the legislation follows California’s lead by emphasizing local control, discouraging unnecessary and wasteful testing, and allowing accountability systems that emphasize multiple measures of success, rather than relying so heavily on one test,” said State Superintendent of Schools Tom Torlakson. "The Re-authorization of NCLB has languished for too long in the Congress and has kept many important improvements from being made to the law. I want to commend Congressman Mark DeSaulnier for all of his hard work that has resulted in finally getting a vote on this bipartisan reform bill. The Every Student Success Act provides most importantly that schools and states will be accountable for making sure that all children have the opportunity to learn and succeed in their education and it transfers responsibility to local districts and states for school improvement,” said Congressman George Miller (Ret.). “We are very grateful to Congressman DeSaulnier for prioritizing support for measures that have proven to make an enormous difference in educational outcomes for students in California and all around the country. We know from decades of research and experience that after school and summer programs are critical to closing the opportunity and achievement gaps, and this investment needs to be protected and grown. We are also excited to see support for families in their children’s learning and engagement in school in this effort. To do this work well, schools need resources to apply best practices such as strong teacher-family collaboration, parent leadership opportunities, and access to support services that enable students to show up to school every day ready to learn,” Jennifer Peck, Executive Director, Partnership for Children and Youth. Congressman DeSaulnier is the only Bay Area Member on the House Education & the Workforce Committee. #
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on the passage of the joint House and Senate 5-year highway funding bill, which includes a measure authored by DeSaulnier to protect the public from faulty guardrails. The bill passed the House 359-65 and now moves on to the Senate. President Obama is expected to sign the bill in the following weeks. “This multi-year bill will provide billions in funding certainty for California that is crucial for state and local agencies to make urgent repairs to our aging roads, bridges, and transit systems. I am pleased my provision to protect drivers from dangerous guardrails by identifying defective devices in our nation’s roadways was included in the final bill. This measure was a response to the tragic injuries and the loss of life caused by these faulty mechanisms, like in the case of Bay Area resident and football star Darryl Blackmon, which has resulted in a multi-million dollar judgment and extensive media reports. I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure transportation funding is spent in a manner that prevents infrastructure projects from experiencing cost overruns and significant delays that cost taxpayers millions of additional dollars,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier is a Member of the House Oversight Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets. #
12.03.2015	Washington, DC – A measure to improve the safety of crude oil rail shipments across the nation, introduced by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), and Congressman John Garamendi (CA-3), was passed in the House by unanimous consent and included as part of the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act (H.R. 8). It requires the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to study the maximum level of volatility that is safe for transporting crude oil-by-rail within one year. Since 2008, oil traffic has increased over 5,000 percent along rail routes leading from production zones in the central continent to refineries and hubs along the coast. “Crude oil production is at record levels, and railroads are moving more crude oil than ever. For over 25 years, I have represented areas in Contra Costa County which include four oil refineries and two destination facilities for oil-by-rail. This initiative is a first step in addressing concerns of communities, like those in my district, that face threats of environmental degradation, injury, and loss of life due to the unsafe handling of volatile oil in our railroad system,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “No one should have to live with dangerously explosive materials rumbling through their backyards. With dozens of tank cars carrying crude oil through Rockland County communities each week, it’s more important than ever to improve safety for homes, schools, and businesses near the tracks. That’s why I introduced this amendment with Representatives DeSaulnier and Garamendi to require the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to study the maximum level of volatility that is safe for transporting crude oil by rail. As Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue working to ensure Americans living near railways are safe from crude oil accidents,” said Congresswoman Lowey. “Oil train traffic has increased by 5,000 percent in the last eight years to accommodate the surge in oil and gas production from inland production zones like the Bakken Shale,” said Congressman Garamendi. “But more train traffic means more risk of derailments: the Department of Transportation estimates that we will have 14 oil train derailments per year between 2015 and 2020. This is especially dangerous because Bakken and other shale crude is extremely volatile and extremely toxic: in 2013, an oil train carrying Bakken Crude exploded near Lac Mégantic, Quebec, killing 47 people. That’s not something I want to have happen in the 3rd District of California, and that’s why we need a national volatility standard for oil-by-rail traffic.” This amendment requires DOE to determine the acceptable volatility for the safe transportation of oil-by-rail. Highly volatile crude oil, such as Bakken, has been said to closely resemble jet fuel with flammable vapors that can catch on fire in a crash. Crude oil trains crashes in North Dakota, Illinois, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and other states have forced evacuations and caused extensive environmental contamination. #
12.02.2015	Washington, DC – Today, four amendments authored by Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) were successfully passed as part of the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177). This landmark bill overhauls the education law known as “No Child Left Behind (NCLB).” “The Every Student Succeeds Act improves national education standards to ensure that all students receive a quality education. This important legislation prioritizes the academic progress of students with disabilities, low-income students, and English learners, regardless of race, gender or geography,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The following initiatives championed by Congressman DeSaulnier were included in the final bill: Measures to streamline Head Start programs and ensure maximum cooperation with local schools. Ability for schools to allocate resources to educate students and teachers on the dangers and effects of concussions; and Strengthens students’ access to support and “wraparound” services like tutoring, counseling, and other extracurricular activities. “I am proud to have successfully included measures to protect students both in and out of the classroom by streamlining Head Start programs, protecting student athletes from concussions, and providing students with academic and extracurricular support beyond the normal school day. This bill also allows California to continue its new budgeting formula that provides more control and flexibility to schools and communities,” said DeSaulnier. “I applaud the passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act and thank U.S. Representative Mark DeSaulnier for his leadership on the Education and Workforce committee in passing the legislation. I’m pleased the legislation follows California’s lead by emphasizing local control, discouraging unnecessary and wasteful testing, and allowing accountability systems that emphasize multiple measures of success, rather than relying so heavily on one test,” said State Superintendent of Schools Tom Torlakson. "The re-authorization of NCLB has languished for too long in the Congress and has kept many important improvements from being made to the law. I want to commend Congressman Mark DeSaulnier for all of his hard work that has resulted in finally getting a vote on this bipartisan reform bill. The Every Student Succeeds Act provides, most importantly, that schools and states will be accountable for making sure that all children have the opportunity to learn and succeed in their education, and it transfers responsibility to local districts and states for school improvement,” said Congressman George Miller (Ret.). “We are very grateful to Congressman DeSaulnier for prioritizing support for measures that have proven to make an enormous difference in educational outcomes for students in California and all around the country. We know from decades of research and experience that after school and summer programs are critical to closing the opportunity and achievement gaps, and this investment needs to be protected and grown. We are also excited to see support for families in their children’s learning and engagement in school in this effort. To do this work well, schools need resources to apply best practices such as strong teacher-family collaboration, parent leadership opportunities, and access to support services that enable students to show up to school every day ready to learn,” Jennifer Peck, Executive Director, Partnership for Children and Youth. The Every Student Succeeds Act passed the House of Representatives 359-64 and now moves to the Senate for consideration. President Obama is expected to sign it into law in the coming weeks. Congressman DeSaulnier is the only Bay Area Member on the House Education & the Workforce Committee. #
11.30.2015	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will continue to meet one-on-one with constituents during Mobile District Office Hours in Lafayette, Saturday, December 5, 2015 from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm. Mobile District Office Hours are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding town hall meetings and listening tours across the district. Our top priority is to be accessible to the people we serve, which is why I am continuing my longtime practice of holding Mobile District Office Hours on Saturdays at locations across Contra Costa County. I invite all residents to come and talk with me about issues of importance or concern,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be available to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, December 5, 2015 from 11:00 am to 1:00 pm. Where: Lafayette Public Library, Willow and Redwood Study Rooms, 3491 Mt. Diablo Blvd., Lafayette, CA 94549. No appointment necessary. For more information: please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
11.19.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to the recent terrorist attacks in Paris and legislation in the House of Representatives to change the existing U.S. refugee admission process: “Ensuring the safety and security of our nation and its people is our top priority. As an American with French ancestry, two countries that were founded on the ideals of liberty, I am proud that historically we have been faithful to both. I stand with the President to enhance our security and to reinforce our values. Today’s political maneuver would undermine these goals and immediately halt refugee admissions from Syria by making the vetting process unnecessarily duplicative and onerous. We currently have a process for admitting refugees that is extensive, selective, and demanding. Specifically, vetting includes biometric and biographic checks, medical screenings, and interviews. Further, refugees’ applications are scrutinized with criteria specific to circumstances unique to the conflicts in their countries and the region. Multiple federal agencies work together with the United Nations on every U.S. application. With this screening, not a single one of the 2,174 Syrian refugees admitted to the United States since September 11, 2001 has been arrested or deported on terrorism-related grounds. This bill would do nothing to keep the United States safe, and would hurt refugees who are fleeing the very terrorists we are trying to protect against. As we continue to strengthen our approach to potential threats, we must focus on efforts that do, in fact, provide greater security while standing by the ideals of freedom and compassion upon which our country was built.” #
11.05.2015	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) will host a “Veterans’ Meet and Greet” in the City of Concord on Tuesday, November 10th, from 6:00 pm to 7:30 pm. This is an opportunity for local veterans and their families to meet with the Congressman, share their thoughts, and ask questions. Members of Congressman DeSaulnier’s Veterans Advisory Board, a group of former service members from across branches of the service, will also be in attendance. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Veterans’ Meet and Greet When: Tuesday, November 10, 2015 from 6:00 pm to 7:30 pm Where: Concord Veterans Center, 1333 Willow Pass Road, Suite 106, Concord, CA 94520 To RSVP, for more information or to request ADA accommodations please contact: CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – In response to tragic injuries and the loss of life caused by faulty highway guardrails and the Department of Transportation’s (USDOT) inability to track these safety devices that resulted in a multi-million dollar judgment and extensive media reports, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) authored an amendment to keep the public safe. The measure was unanimously passed by the U.S. House of Representatives and included in a six-year Highway Reauthorization bill (H.R. 22). “Media reports estimate more than 200,000 potentially unsafe guardrails may still be in service. However, no mechanism exists for states to identify and remove defective devices from our nation’s roadways. Guardrails, barriers, and terminals are put in place to protect us. In the event of an accident, the public should have full confidence they will do their job,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. In November of last year, Darryl Blackmon, a 24-year-old Bay Area resident and football star, was killed in a collision with a guardrail that 40 states, and the District of Columbia, have stopped installing due to safety concerns. In response to tragedies like this, a federal judge handed down a $663 million judgment against the manufacturer for failing to disclose information to federal regulators about modifications made to their guardrail specifications after they were approved by the Federal Highway Administration. DeSaulnier’s amendment directs the USDOT to study ways to improve data collection on highway safety hardware devices including guardrails, barriers, terminals, and railings. This is the first step in a series of items DeSaulnier is working on to keep the public safe. Of the overall Highway bill, DeSaulnier said, “states are in dire need of funding to address urgent infrastructure needs. While not perfect, this bill invests over $30.5 billion in California’s highways and transit. A multi-year bill is critical to making necessary repairs, executing major capital investments, and creating jobs.” The bill passed the House 363-64 and now moves to reconciliation with the Senate bill. Congressman DeSaulnier is a Member House Oversight Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets. Click here to watch floor debate on the amendment. #
11.04.2015	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will host a town hall meeting in Pittsburg on Monday, November 9th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. This is the ninth public forum hosted by Congressman DeSaulnier since taking office in January. Town halls are one part of DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding mobile district office hours and listening tours across the district. “As we wrap up the legislative year, I invite residents to a Congressional update with information on the federal budget, the six-year transportation bill, and other key issues of importance. This is an opportunity to hear about the work we are doing on behalf of the district and to ask questions and share ideas. We will also discuss the broad range of constituent services my office can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in Pittsburg When: Monday, November 9, 2015, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Pittsburg Senior Center, 300 Presidio Lane, Pittsburg, CA 94565. For more information or to request ADA accommodations: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
10.27.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), joined by Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Mike Honda (CA-17), Jared Huffman (CA-2), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Scott Peters (CA-52) and 18 other California House Members, urged Governor Jerry Brown to address the unmet needs of California’s nearly 300,000 homeless schoolchildren through the expansion of the School Supplies for Homeless Children Fund. The fund assists in providing basic material needs to homeless students. In a letter to Governor Brown the Members encouraged creating a dedicated funding stream for the program through the use of unobligated federal Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) funds. “In the Bay Area, housing costs continue to soar while wages remain stagnant. Today, too many hardworking families find themselves in dire financial circumstances and unable to meet their child’s basic material needs. Unfortunately, children in school cannot focus on their schoolwork when needs like socks, shoes, or hygiene items remain unmet. California can make a difference by expanding this program and giving these students and their families a better shot at success,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Over the last five years, there has been a 54 percent increase in the number of students experiencing homelessness. This figure does not include an estimated 30,000 additional homeless children in preschool. The homeless children fund, created in 2014 by a bill authored by then-Senator DeSaulnier, currently receives voluntary contributions from individuals on personal income tax returns. To date, the fund has received a 153 percent match from private resources. However, this translates to only $1 to $1.76 per homeless child annually, which exacerbates the need to provide a permanent funding solution. By expanding the program as set forth in the letter, each homeless student could receive up to $16.80. #
10.22.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Cheri Bustos (IL-17), alongside Representative Rick Crawford (AR-1), introduced bi-partisan legislation to promote transparency and accountability in federal highway investments by requiring states to prioritize projects based on performance standards. While transportation agencies in California, Illinois, and other states are implementing similar measures, most states currently use limited or no performance criteria making it challenging for the public to understand how funds are being spent. The “Metropolitan Planning Enhancement Act” (H.R. 3787) would rebuild public trust by increasing transparency during the project selection process, and ensure that funds are invested on merit as opposed to politics or connections. Further, this process helps better achieve local, state, and national transportation goals by prioritizing projects that bring the most value to communities. “America’s infrastructure is at a crossroads. With increasing needs and diminishing resources, it is essential that we promote transportation investments that offer the highest return for taxpayers. California has been a leader in evidence-based decision-making. I am proud of our work on this issue, and this bill expands on those efforts to promote transparency and create a new level of accountability for infrastructure investment across the country,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “Taxpayers deserve to know that major spending decisions are based on performance standards, not on political cronyism. By requiring new levels of transparency in major transportation investments, we'll ensure that tax dollars are used more effectively and efficiently,” said Congresswoman Cheri Bustos. Specifically, the bill mandates that states develop criteria for how transportation projects are selected. Among items that may be included are data on the usage, condition, and impact of the transportation system. All transportation projects would be required to be scored against competing proposalsand would include a description. A brief summary of this bill can be found here. For an example of state performance standards, click here. #
10.20.2015	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will continue to meet one-on-one with constituents during Mobile District Office Hours in Richmond, Saturday, October 24, 2015 from 11:30 am to 1:30 pm. Mobile District Office Hours are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding town hall meetings and listening tours across the district. “We are proud to have a district office centrally located in Richmond, but families are often busy during the workweek. Our top priority is to be accessible to the people we serve, which is why I am continuing my longtime practice of holding Mobile District Office Hours on Saturdays at locations across Contra Costa County. I invite all residents to come and talk with me about issues of importance or concern,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be available to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, October 24, 2015 from 11:30 am to 1:30 pm. Where: 440 Civic Center Plaza, 2nd Floor, Richmond, CA 94804. No appointment necessary. For more information: please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. Congressman DeSaulnier also has a district office located in Walnut Creek. For a full list of Congressman DeSaulnier’s offices click here. #
10.16.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) reacted to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Office of Inspector General’s finding that the Chemical Safety Board (CSB) violated the Sunshine Act at a board meeting in Richmond, CA on January 28, 2015. The board was meeting to vote on the final report of CSB’s investigation into the 2012 Chevron Richmond Refinery Fire. “Transparency is key to good governance. It is unacceptable for the federal agency charged with investigating chemical accidents to have violated the Sunshine Act. While the CSB, under new leadership, says it plans to take corrective action to ensure future compliance, the agency must aggressively address the overall culture of distrust, ineptitude, and misconduct undermining the critical mission of the organization,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. According to the IG report, the meeting announcement “included a description of what CSB would present and discuss prior to the possible board vote on the final report of CSB’s investigation in the Chevron Refinery Fire. However, at a public meeting CSB passed a motion to terminate five investigations on which it had already spent over $800,000, consolidated the former Chairperson’s authority over the agency, and rescinded 18 of 46 board orders.” “By not announcing a motion that included terminating investigations, CSB kept the public uninformed of its planned actions to end investigations, in violation of the Sunshine Act and the act’s transparency goals,” the report concluded. Earlier this year, Congressman DeSaulnier called for the resignation of former CSB Chairman Moure-Eraso during a hearing of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform following revelations of mismanagement by the agency. At the hearing, DeSaulnier also raised concerns that the CSB may have violated the Sunshine Act. Chairman Moure-Eraso later resigned and Vanessa Allen Sutherland was appointed Chair of CSB. A full copy of the IG’s report can be found here. #
10.13.2015	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman DeSaulnier announced he will be marking the 10th stop on his Education Listening Tour at Pittsburg High School this Thursday, October 15th. Earlier this year, DeSaulnier, who serves on the House Education and the Workforce Committee, launched the tour to discuss our education system and to hear firsthand from students, parents, educators, and school administrators. Congressman DeSaulnier plans to visit every school district in his Congressional district. “So far on this tour, I have heard what has been working and what must be improved in schools and colleges across our district. As Congress continues to debate landmark education bills, I look forward to sharing this feedback with my colleagues in Washington and integrating it into my future work on the Education and the Workforce Committee,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. When: Thursday, October 15, 2015Where: Pittsburg High School 1750 Harbor Street Pittsburg, CA 94565 Time: 2:00 pm to 3:00 pm (open to press and photographers). #
10.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, at an event at the University of California, Berkeley, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced the introduction of the “Student Borrower Fairness Act” (H.R. 3675). This bill decreases student loan interest rates by allowing borrowers to refinance their interest rates at the rate offered to banks by the Federal Reserve. The costs are offset by increasing corporate tax rates on companies that pay their CEO or highest paid employee more than 100 times the median compensation of all employees. “It is patently unfair that the same big banks that toppled our economy borrow from the federal government at extremely low interest rates while student borrowers are struggling to pay back their loans. Meanwhile, people of all ages are buried in student loan debt which holds them back from being able to buy a car, purchase a home, save for retirement, or start a family. This bill is a first step toward making sure our students can emerge from under their piles of crippling debt and enter tomorrow’s highly-trained workforce,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “College students and their families depend on student loans to access higher education. At Berkeley, we are proud that 61% of our undergraduates graduate without debt and the average debt of students who do borrow is only $17,584, much lower than the national average. This legislation would benefit all borrowers because it will help them manage their debt and repayment. I applaud Congressman DeSaulnier for working on behalf of all students,” said UC Berkeley Chancellor Dirks. "Saint Mary's College of California is built on the idea that education has the power to transform lives. The Student Borrower Fairness Act will provide opportunities for all students to pursue their dreams of a higher education, and ultimately highly successful lives. Student loan debt is a national issue and reducing it must be a national priority," said Saint Mary's College of California President James Donahue. The scale of this problem cannot be overlooked. Outstanding student loans now total more than $1.3 trillion, surpassing total credit card debt. More than 37 million Americans have outstanding student loan debt, with an average outstanding balance of $29,400 for those who borrowed to get a bachelor’s degree. From 2004 to 2012, student loan debt rose an average of 14 percent per year. In 2013, Congress acted on the issue of student loan rates, but the changes only applied to new borrowers. Congressman DeSaulnier introduced a similar bill addressing CEO pay when he served in the California State Senate. #
10.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Mark DeSaulnier led a letter signed by Representatives Bonnie Watson Coleman and Brendan Boyle, all freshman members of the Transportation and Public Assets Subcommittee, calling on Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) to convene a hearing on the implications and consequences of Volkswagen’s actions for American consumers and, to identify potential policy solutions for federal agencies to prevent similar egregious actions from occurring again. “Clearly, there appears to be a growing and pervasive disregard for consumer safety, public health, and environmental protections by some within the auto industry. By convening a hearing on the implications of deceptive practices within the auto industry, the Committee can thoughtfully consider the negative consequences for U.S. taxpayers, auto workers, and federal regulatory agencies, and determine if adequate protections are in place to minimize or eliminate future occurrences,” the Members wrote. A copy of the letter can be found here. “As former Chair of the Transportation Committee in the California State Senate and a member of the California Air Resources Board, I am deeply concerned about the blatant and pervasive disregard for environmental protections, consumer safety, and public health in the automaker industry. Individual bad actors must be held accountable to disincentivize corporate wrongdoing, and we must fully comprehend the role of federal agencies in regulating these companies,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). “There’s no excuse for misleading and outright deceiving American consumers. We need to understand what happened here, and whether actions like these have become a trend within the auto industry that requires additional action at the federal level. Consumer safety, environmental stewardship, and the wellbeing of our communities are vital. Our committee can and should play an important role in safeguarding these priorities,” said Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12). “It is shocking and completely disheartening that VW has apparently been rigging vehicles for years to avoid negative emission test standards,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13). “The American public needs answers as to how this gross violation of trust was allowed to happen, how we will hold VW accountable, and how we will prevent this from happening again. The best way to do that is to have VW executives come before our committee and answer our questions in person.” #
10.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Mark DeSaulnier led a letter signed by Representatives Bonnie Watson Coleman and Brendan Boyle, all freshman members of the Transportation and Public Assets Subcommittee, calling on Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) to convene a hearing on the implications and consequences of Volkswagen’s actions for American consumers and, to identify potential policy solutions for federal agencies to prevent similar egregious actions from occurring again. “Clearly, there appears to be a growing and pervasive disregard for consumer safety, public health, and environmental protections by some within the auto industry. By convening a hearing on the implications of deceptive practices within the auto industry, the Committee can thoughtfully consider the negative consequences for U.S. taxpayers, auto workers, and federal regulatory agencies, and determine if adequate protections are in place to minimize or eliminate future occurrences,” the Members wrote. A copy of the letter can be found here. “As former Chair of the Transportation Committee in the California State Senate and a member of the California Air Resources Board, I am deeply concerned about the blatant and pervasive disregard for environmental protections, consumer safety, and public health in the automaker industry. Individual bad actors must be held accountable to disincentivize corporate wrongdoing, and we must fully comprehend the role of federal agencies in regulating these companies,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). “There’s no excuse for misleading and outright deceiving American consumers. We need to understand what happened here, and whether actions like these have become a trend within the auto industry that requires additional action at the federal level. Consumer safety, environmental stewardship, and the wellbeing of our communities are vital. Our committee can and should play an important role in safeguarding these priorities,” said Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12). “It is shocking and completely disheartening that VW has apparently been rigging vehicles for years to avoid negative emission test standards,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13). “The American public needs answers as to how this gross violation of trust was allowed to happen, how we will hold VW accountable, and how we will prevent this from happening again. The best way to do that is to have VW executives come before our committee and answer our questions in person.” #
10.02.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) hails the $1.6 million in federal funds awarded to Contra Costa County’s Zero Tolerance Initiative under the U.S. Department of Justice, Office for Victims of Crime (OVC) grants program for Comprehensive Services for Victims of All Forms of Human Trafficking. This funding will help Contra Costa County build on their human trafficking prevention efforts and better identify and serve the victims of human trafficking. “During my time as a County Supervisor we developed the first Zero Tolerance Initiative in California. This is an important program and I am pleased we were able to play a role in securing federal funds to help combat human trafficking and to support survivors. I am proud of the pioneering work Contra Costa County has done to stop domestic violence,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Domestic violence, sexual assault and human trafficking have devastating impacts on our community. These grant awards will boost our efforts to reach and serve victims who are often unseen, and suffering in silence. We are deeply honored to have been selected. These grants demonstrate a vote of confidence in the strong partnerships we are building among criminal justice and community agencies,” said Devorah Levine, Zero Tolerance Chair. Contra Costa County’s Zero Tolerance Initiative was established in 2001 by the County Board of Supervisors in an effort to combat domestic violence and protect victims. In June of this year, Congressman DeSaulnier was joined by Members of Congress who represent Contra Costa County in sending a letter to the Department of Justice in support of Contra Costa County’s application to the OVC grants program. A copy of that letter can be found here. #
10.01.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) became the 218th cosponsor of the bipartisan “Biennial Budgeting and Enhanced Oversight Act” (H.R. 1610), introduced by Congressmen Ribble (WI-08) and Schrader (OR-05). The bill now enjoys bipartisan support from the majority of Members of the House of Representatives, which guarantees its passage should Speaker Boehner bring it to the floor for a vote. Under the biennial budgeting process, Congress would complete its budget resolution and appropriations bills in the first year of each Congress, and conduct much needed oversight of federal programs in the second year. This process would result in a more comprehensive review of federal spending, and would allow for a greater focus on performance budgeting and good governance. “There is no question our current budgeting process is broken. It is long past the time for Congress to end the cycle of yearly funding crises and short-term budget extensions. This bill provides the stability our government agencies need, and the accountability our taxpayers deserve. I am proud to help this strong bipartisan bill reach the majority needed to pass the House, and I urge Speaker Boehner to immediately bring it to the floor for a vote,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “America is a tremendous economic engine, and our federal budget needs consistency, reliability, and thorough oversight to function efficiently. I introduced the Biennial Budgeting and Enhanced Oversight Act to take budgeting out of election years and force Congress to conduct better oversight of federal agencies, and I am proud to have Representative DeSaulnier on the bill as our 218th cosponsor,” said Congressman Ribble (WI-08). “When I chaired the Budget and Appropriations Committee in the Oregon Legislature, we operated with a biennial budget system, and it worked very well. There is no reason we should not be doing the same in this body,” said Congressman Schrader (OR-05). “We’re facing budget crisis after budget crisis and by adopting this bill we would able to avoid stress and uncertainty, not only for our government, but for the American people who expect us to do our jobs.” Biennial budgeting is a practical reform that has already been implemented by fifteen states. It has strong bipartisan and bicameral support. The bipartisan Senate companion legislation, the Biennial Budgeting and Appropriations Act (S. 150), is led by Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and currently has 25 additional cosponsors. Congressman DeSaulnier introduced and passed a similar bill when he served in the California State Senate that was signed into law by Governor Brown. #
09.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), a member of the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform and a former member of the California Air Resources Board (CARB) called on United States Attorney General Loretta Lynch to conduct a thorough and expeditious criminal investigation into claims that Volkswagen AG cheated on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) air pollution tests. “Given the appearance of blatant and pervasive disregard for environmental protections, consumer safety, and public health in the automaker industry, individual bad actors must be held accountable to disincentivize corporate wrongdoing. Settlement agreements are not enough to restore public confidence in our regulatory regime and thwart future efforts to evade federal and state laws,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. “We cannot expect to change a deceptive corporate culture and renew consumer confidence without decisive consequences for individuals who perpetuated fraud and others like it. The Department of Justice’s announcement of a criminal investigation into Volkswagen AG’s alleged actions is a step in the right direction. A thorough and expeditious criminal investigation is essential to ensuring that the deceptive actions by Volkswagen AG and other automakers are appropriately addressed and that public health and the environment are protected,” concluded DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier served on CARB for a decade under Governors Wilson, Davis and Schwarzenegger. A copy of Congressman DeSaulnier’s letter can be found here. #
09.29.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to today’s House Oversight & Government Reform Hearing on Planned Parenthood’s taxpayer funding: “Today’s Oversight & Government Reform hearing was nothing more than a publicity stunt aimed at laying the groundwork for a December shutdown. It’s lunacy that the most extreme faction of the Republican Party is willing to put at risk millions of jobs and the American economy over inaccurate and deceptive claims. During the hearing, I thought of the old adage ‘if you have the law, hammer the law. If you have the facts, hammer the facts. If you have neither the law nor the facts, hammer the table.’ “The federal government does not fund abortions. Planned Parenthood follows both state and federal laws for fetal tissue research which has helped virtually every person in the county in some form or fashion. In fact, the federal law regarding fetal tissue was formed during the Reagan Administration with bipartisan support. It’s unfortunate today’s Republican Party is not more like it was then. Defunding Planned Parenthood would leave millions of women without access to important healthcare services including cancer screenings, and engineering a government shutdown over this manufactured crisis is simply unconscionable.” #
09.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today to highlight the imminent expiration of the Perkins Loan Program on October 1, 2015. The program provides low interest loans to economically disadvantaged students to help finance their postsecondary educations. A bill to reauthorize the program for a year, the Higher Education Extension Act (H.R. 3594), was passed on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon with bipartisan support. “Students from across the country who attend California schools, like Saint Mary’s College in my district, are able to receive a top notch education through assistance programs like the Perkins Loan Program. We can’t put another barrier in their path toward success in today’s high-skilled economy. While I am pleased Congress acted to temporarily extend the program, we must find a long-term solution to ensure that our students continue to receive the assistance they need and deserve, ”said Congressman DeSaulnier. In the 2013-2014 academic year, this critical program assisted nearly 540,000 students nationwide with more than 1,500 colleges and universities across the United States participating. In California, which is the second largest recipient of these loans, 46,000 students received over $105 million in assistance. This assistance, combined with California’s unique network consisting of the California Community College system, the California State University system, the University of California system, and other private and public institutions, increases access to higher education opportunities and improves the state’s economy by ensuring that today’s students are tomorrow’s highly-trained workforce. Congressman DeSaulnier also spearheaded a letter, sent by California Members of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, to Speaker Boehner urging for swift action to consider H.R. 3594 on the floor of the House of Representatives before the October 1st deadline. A copy of that letter can be found here. #
09.24.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement in response to Pope Francis’ historic speech to Congress. “Pope Francis’ unprecedented address to Congress was truly aspirational. His message of shared social responsibility in the face of global challenges comes at an important time for our country. Of particular note, were his comments on President Lincoln ‘the guardian who labored tirelessly that this nation, under God, [might] have a new birth of freedom. Building a future of freedom requires love of the common good and cooperation in a subsidiarity and solidarity.’ Whether addressing climate change, poverty and inequality or the global refugee crisis, it is my hope Members of Congress will embrace Pope Francis’ message of moral responsibility and working together for the common good,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Earlier this year, Congressman DeSaulnier founded the Friends of Jesuit Colleges and Universities Caucus. The caucus serves as an informal space for Members of Congress to discuss current events and social justice issues from a Jesuit perspective. In a letter to the Holy Father, the newly formed caucus welcomed Pope Francis to the Capitol and encouraged a greater dialogue on issues such as hunger, poverty, war, and disease, among others. Dr. James Donahue, a Catholic theologian and President of St. Mary’s College located in California’s 11th District, attended the address as Congressman DeSaulnier’s guest and representative of the Congressional District. #
09.21.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) invites all young people in the Eleventh Congressional District who would like to apply to one of the nation’s service academies to attend “Service Academy Night 2015” which will be held on Tuesday, September 22, 2015 from 6 pm to 8 pm at Diablo Valley College. DeSaulnier said representatives of the nation’s service academies, including the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Military Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, will all be on hand to speak with prospective students. Service academy representatives will give presentations. Additionally, DeSaulnier’s Congressional staff will provide a briefing on the nomination process. Students who wish to attend the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy must send a completed application to Congressman DeSaulnier’s office by October 19, 2015. A selection committee established by Congressman DeSaulnier will review applications; all the selected names will be submitted to the respective academies in December. In order to be considered eligible, all applicants must be citizens of the United States, legal residents of California, unmarried with no children, and at least 17 years of age but no older than 23 as of July 1, 2016. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Invites High School Students to “Service Academy Night 2015” When: Tuesday, September 22, 2015 from 6 pm to 8 pm. Where: Diablo Valley College, The Diablo Room, 3rd Floor HFS Building, 321 Golf Club Road, Pleasant Hill, CA 84523. For more information on applying to any of the service academies, please call Pat Joyce in Congressman DeSaulnier’s office at (925) 933-2660. ###
09.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman DeSaulnier’s first stand-alone bill as a Member of Congress was passed on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act (H.R.1289) would add 44 acres of donated land to the Martinez historic site that celebrates the life and legacy of John Muir. This bipartisan legislation will improve access to the park and its scenic trails, including those on Mount Wanda, named for Muir’s eldest daughter. The John Muir National Historic Site, which includes the home where he lived, covers 330 acres of Contra Costa County. The bill was passed unanimously and can now proceed to the Senate, where Senator Barbara Boxer has introduced companion legislation. “I am proud to lead this bipartisan effort to create and preserve national park space for future generations to enjoy and to honor Contra Costa’s own John Muir. This historic site is the place where Muir, the father of the National Park system, championed the revolutionary idea that wild spaces should be set aside for all to enjoy. I look forward to seeing this bill passed by the Senate and signed into law,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “Our sincere thanks go out to Congressman DeSaulnier for such critical legislation. Muir often walked this land with his two daughters, to admire the coast live oak that grow there, as well as the annual wildflowers that punctuate its grassy hillsides. Expansion of the John Muir Historic Site will forever protect this beautiful property and allow future generations to share in the same delights as Muir’s daughters,” said Linus Eukel, Executive Director of the John Muir Land Trust. “We are looking forward to this significant addition to John Muir National Historic Site, including expanded opportunities to protect these lands while providing opportunities to learn about these resources and the legacy of John Muir. This is particularly fitting as we enter into the Centennial of the National Park Service in 2016, and focus on reaching out to the next generation of park visitors, stewards and advocates this coming year. Our thanks to Congressman DeSaulnier and the John Muir Land Trust for making this expansion possible,” said Sue Fritzke, Acting Superintendent of the National Park Service. This legislation was co-sponsored by 31 of Congressman DeSaulnier’ s colleagues from both sides of the aisle. Congressman George Miller, who previously represented California’s 11th District, has been a strong champion of this bill. #
09.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman DeSaulnier issued the following statement today in support of the Iran Nuclear Proposal, also known as the Iran Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “As a freshman Member of Congress, I looked for every opportunity to study the proposed deal. I have fully reviewed the accord including the classified sections. I was personally briefed by President Obama and members of the National Security Council and have heard presentations from Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, an expert on nuclear matters. I have also received letters and testimony from experts including a letter sent by five Nobel laureates and veteran makers of nuclear arms and former White House science advisers who describe the deal as being far better than we could have imagined. “On the opposing side, I traveled to Israel and met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, as well as Israeli leaders, scholars, and negotiators. I saw firsthand the conflict that has been ruminating in the Middle East for thousands of years, and I continue to staunchly support the U.S.-Israel relationship. “Most importantly, I listened to residents of our district. Through a series of five town halls as well as mobile district office hours, phone calls, emails, and in-office meetings this summer, I heard the opinions of our community. “At the heart of my decision is supporting a deal that best preserves long-term peace in the Middle East and creates security and stability for the United States. I believe this accord is our best option for achieving this goal. “First, this proposal stands on its merits and is our best chance to stop Iran from developing a nuclear weapon; it increases the time it would take for Iran to build a nuclear weapon from 2-to-3 months to a year. “Next, this historic accord is unanimously supported by the UN Security Council and has the backing of international organizations and countries across the political spectrum. Its enforcement will be strengthened by this unified front. If the United States walks away, the accord will either fall through or its enforcement will be significantly weakened. “No one believes this proposal is perfect, but going it alone has not stopped Iran on their path toward a nuclear weapon. United Nations sanctions have fallen short. It is time we put diplomacy into action.” Congressman Mark DeSaulnier, D-Concord, represents California's 11th District in the U.S. Congress. To read Congressman DeSaulnier’s op-ed in the Contra Costa Times in support of the Iran Deal, click here. #
08.20.2015	Walnut Creek, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will continue to meet one-on-one with constituents during mobile district office hours in Walnut Creek, Saturday, August 22, 2015 from 11 am to 1 pm. Mobile District Office Hours are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding town hall meetings and listening tours across the district. “People are busy and I want them to have easy and direct access to the information and assistance they need. That’s why, in addition to two district offices, I am continuing my long time practice of holding mobile district office hours at locations all across Contra Costa County,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be available to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, August 22, 2015 from 11 am to 1 pm. Where: Walnut Creek Library, 2nd Floor Study Rooms, 1644 N. Broadway, Walnut Creek, CA 94596. No appointment necessary. For more Information: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
08.18.2015	Concord, CA – Congressman DeSaulnier will host a special viewing of floor statements by Members of Congress and a discussion to honor the lives of the victims of the Port Chicago tragedy at the Concord City Council Chambers on Wednesday. The event will feature representatives from the National Park Service and Friends of Port Chicago. Last month Congressman DeSaulnier honored the 71st anniversary of the tragic events at Port Chicago by leading floor statements with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) on the floor of the House of Representatives. Together they shared the stories of the men at Port Chicago, many of whom lost their lives, and the misguided response against fifty African American sailors following the aftermath of the explosion. What: Special Viewing of House Floor Tribute in Honor of Port Chicago 50 When: Wednesday, August 19, 2015 from 6:00 PM – 7:30 PM Where: Concord City Council Chambers 1950 Parkside Drive Concord, CA 94519 Full video statement by Congressman DeSaulnier and the CBC on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives can be found here. #
08.12.2015	Pleasant Hill, CA -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will host five town hall meetings in the communities of Pleasant Hill, Rossmoor, El Cerrito, Orinda, and Clayton. Town halls are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding mobile district office hours and listening tours across the district. In an effort to engage constituents on the issues that impact our district and our nation, Congressman DeSaulnier will dedicate the second portion of the Pleasant Hill town hall to a presentation and discussion on the proposal on Iran. In addition, the Rossmoor town hall meeting will include a recognition of the 50th Anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid. “I invite residents to listen to a presentation and legislative update about my work in Congress. At the town halls, I hope constituents will share their thoughts on issues of importance, and learn about the broad range of constituent services my office can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in Pleasant Hill When: Tuesday, August 18, 2015, from 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Pleasant Hill Middle School Community Room, 1 Santa Barbara Road, Pleasant Hill, CA, 94523. Special topic: Proposal on Iran (Second Half of Town Hall) What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in Rossmoor When: Wednesday, August 19, 2015, from 10:30 am to 12:00 pm. Check-in begins at 10:00 am. Where: Rossmoor Event Center, Donner Room, 1021 Stanley Dollar Drive, Walnut Creek, CA 94596. Special topic: Medicare’s 50th Anniversary What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in El Cerrito When: Wednesday, August 26, 2015, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Harding Elementary School Auditorium, 7230 Fairmont Avenue, El Cerrito, CA, 94530. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in Orinda When: Wednesday, September 2, 2015, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Orinda Library Auditorium, 26 Orinda Way, Orinda, CA, 94563. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in Clayton When: Thursday, September 3, 2015, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Clayton Library, Hoyer Hall, 6125 Clayton Road, Clayton, CA 94517. For more information or to request ADA accommodations: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
07.30.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) has introduced the School Food Modernization Act, which will help local schools replace outdated kitchen equipment and improve infrastructure in an effort to provide healthy and nutritious meals to students. A national survey indicates that 88 percent of school districts need at least one piece of new kitchen equipment, and 55 percent require infrastructure changes. The legislation is bipartisan, with Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA) serving as co-lead and Rep. Glenn “G.T.” Thompson (R-PA) and Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) also co-sponsoring. “The research is clear: nutrition plays a critical role in a child’s development,” Rep. DeSaulnier said. “We committed to giving students the nourishment they need to learn and grow with new federal nutrition standards, but it is time we give our schools and their staff the tools they need to implement them. I am pleased to join this bipartisan effort to help make our food healthier and our students prosper.” “We need a permanent solution to ensure that our schools have the tools they need to serve our kids healthier meals,” Rep. Barletta said. “Too many of our nation’s schools have deep fryers when they really need walk-in refrigerators and freezers to keep fresh fruits and vegetables longer. They have microwaves meant to reheat pre-packaged foods when they really need something as simple as a knife and cutting board. By giving schools better access to modern kitchen equipment and infrastructure, while also strengthening workforce training, we do just that. It will result in improved focus in the classroom, and ultimately, a lifetime of healthier eating habits.” “The School Food Modernization Act will improve the quality and accessibility of equipment used for preparing high quality meals in our schools,” Rep. Thompson said. “Food service professionals work tirelessly to comply with the barrage of new school nutrition standards and we must ensure they have the necessary tools to provide healthy meals to students.” “Everyone I've met who works at a school lunch program wants to provide, the best, freshest, healthiest meal possible for the students they serve,” Rep. Pingree said. “But they don't always have the equipment and facilities they need to do that. This bill will help give them the tools they need to cook fresh meals from scratch. School kitchens need more cutting boards and refrigerators fewer microwaves and can openers.” The legislation: Allows schools to participate in a loan assistance program from the U.S. Department of Agriculture to help them acquire new kitchen equipment and build new infrastructure. Schools would be eligible for federal guarantees up to 80 percent of the loan. Provides targeted grant assistance to give school administrators and food service directors seed money for less extensive infrastructure upgrades or purchases of high-quality, durable kitchen equipment such as commercial ovens, steamers, and stoves. Strengthens training and provides technical assistance to school food service personnel, many of whom need additional skills and expertise to prepare healthier meals. Increases Congressional oversight by requiring reports on the use of workforce training funds and the progress of the programs authorized within this bill. #
07.17.2015	Danville, CA -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will host a town hall meeting on Monday, July 20th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm in Danville. Town halls are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding mobile district office hours and listening tours across the district. “I invite residents to listen to a presentation and legislative update about my work in Congress. At the town halls, I hope constituents will share their thoughts on issues of importance, and learn about the broad range of constituent services my office can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Town Hall Meeting in Danville When: Monday, July 20, 2015, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Danville Community Center, 420 Front Street, Danville, CA, 94526. For More Information or to request ADA accommodations: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
07.02.2015	Concord, CA – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) presented gold, silver, and bronze medals to Congressional Award winners at the Concord Civic Center. The honorees received medals for participating in the Congressional Award program and demonstrating an outstanding commitment to community service, personal development, physical fitness, and exploration. “The Congressional Award is the United States Congress’ award for young Americans. We are honored to have 13 students in our Congressional district earn this distinctive award by dedicating hundreds of hours to improving their community and achieving their personal goals. These students represent the next generation of leaders in the East Bay,” said DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier awarded medals to Sarah Rockwood from Orinda, Joseph Narcisse from Danville, Mícheál and Casey Riggs from Walnut Creek, Jared Wong from Danville, and Ryan and Derek Tsao from Pleasant Hill. Medal winners need to complete a minimum of 100 hours of community service in addition to achieving personal goals in physical fitness, personal development, and exploration. For more information on the Congressional Award Program, visit: https://congressionalaward.org/about-us/ Photo Caption: Congressman DeSaulnier stands with seven of the Congressional Award winners (from right to left) Ryan Tsao, Derek Tsao, Sarah Rockwood, Joseph Narcisse, Jared Wong, Casey Riggs, and Mícheál Riggs. Each completed a minimum of 100 hours of community service and achieved personal goals in physical fitness, personal development, and exploration. #
06.26.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on today’s Supreme Court ruling on marriage equality. The court’s ruling gives same-sex couples the right to marry in all fifty states. “Our nation is stronger today because of this historic ruling. Both society and the law must value the lives of others and treat every person with respect and dignity regardless of who they are, what they look like, or who they love. I celebrate this victory with the LGBT community and with members of my own family whose love now knows no boundaries,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. #
06.24.2015	Bay Point, CA -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will continue to meet one-on-one with constituents during mobile district office hours in Bay Point, Saturday, June 27th from 11 am to 1 pm. Mobile District Office Hours are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding town hall meetings and listening tours across the district. “People are busy and I want them to have easy and direct access to the information and assistance they need. That’s why, in addition to two district offices, I am continuing my long time practice of holding mobile district office hours at locations all across Contra Costa County,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be available to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, June 27th, from 11 am to 1 pm. Where: Ambrose Community Center, 3105 Willow Pass Road, Bay Point, CA 94565. No appointment necessary. For More Information: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
06.22.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) along with Congressman Jared Huffman (CA-2) and Congresswoman Lois Capps (CA-24) introduced the Offshore Oil and Gas Worker Whistleblower Protection Act of 2015 (H.R. 2824). H.R. 2824 would extend whistleblower protections to employees working on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) performing oil and gas exploration, drilling, production, or oil spill cleanup. Currently, there are no federal protections for OCS workers. “Workers on the Deepwater Horizon knew something was wrong long before the explosion sunk the rig and oil gushed into the Gulf of Mexico. Yet, the fear of being fired kept them from reporting dangerous workplace conditions. My district is home to several oil refineries, and our community knows firsthand the long lasting impact of preventable accidents. We can’t stand by and watch one more person die for fear of being fired for reporting a problem. Whether on land or at sea, we should do everything possible to protect the safety, health, and livelihood of our workers,” said DeSaulnier. “Five years after the Deepwater Horizon explosion, it’s time we ensured workers that come forward to report serious health and safety violations are protected from retaliation,” Huffman said. “This bill will help save lives and protect the environment from future disasters.” “The reality is that oil and gas production is a dirty and dangerous business, regardless of whether it is done onshore or offshore,” said Capps. “The men and women working on offshore platforms know this better than anyone. These workers have no whistle-blower protections today, and given the hazards, they should be protected by the highest standards of workplace safety if they report concerns about health and safety conditions on these platforms.” Specifically, H.R. 2824 would prohibit an employer from discharging or otherwise discriminating against an employee who reports to the employer or a federal or state government official that he or she reasonably believes the employer is violating the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA). It also protects covered employees who report injuries or unsafe conditions related to the offshore work, refuse to work based on a good faith belief that the offshore work could cause injury or impairment or a spill, or refuse to perform work in a manner that they believe violates the OCSLA. #
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) issued the following statement on today’s trade votes. The Majority expects to bring the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) bill to the floor early next week. “‘Public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment, nothing can fail. Without it, nothing can succeed,’ President Lincoln said. “One of my most significant votes in Congress involved what are potentially the two largest trade agreements in history. The basis of American democracy is for elected officials to be open and honest with the people they represent. If this trade deal is good for America, Americans should have been able to review and debate it. “I believe global trade is good for us as long as the most powerful human force, the American Workforce, is fairly compensated. Workers cannot take another hit in the pocketbook. For the first time in history our children are not inheriting the same quality of life as previous generations. “Americans are now more productive than ever, but they have not been able to collect the fruits of their increased productivity. The most important thing a Representative can do is honestly fight for the American worker. Now more than ever, they need us to be on their side.” #
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman DeSaulnier’s first bill as a Member of Congress was passed in the House Committee on Natural Resources with bipartisan support. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act (H.R.1289) would add 44 acres of land of the Martinez historic site that celebrates the life and legacy of John Muir. The additional 44 acres will improve access to the park and trails for the public. The John Muir National Historic Site, which stretches across 330 acres currently, includes the home where Muir lived until he died in 1914. The bill was passed by unanimous consent and now can be brought for a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives. Senator Barbara Boxer introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. “I am proud of this bi-partisan effort to honor Contra Costa’s own John Muir and create more national park space in the East Bay for area residents to enjoy. We are very grateful to be working with our predecessor, Congressman George Miller, and with Senator Barbara Boxer who introduced the companion bill in the Senate. I look forward to seeing this bill passed by the House and on its way to becoming law,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “John Muir Land Trust is truly grateful to Congressman DeSaulnier for his important work in advancing this legislation. This bill will help permanently protect wildlife habitat, air quality, water quality and the conservation legacy of John Muir. The property will be open for public recreation and benefit the entire region, including visitors from around the world to the NPS John Muir National Historic Site,” said Linus Eukel, Executive Director of the John Muir Land Trust. #
05.26.2015	Moraga, CA -- As a newly appointed Member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier has launched an Education Listening Tour to visit schools across the district and to hear firsthand from students, parents, educators and school administrators about ways to improve our educational system. DeSaulnier began the tour early this year, and plans to visit every school district in CA-11. He has added a new stop by visiting Donald Rheem Elementary School in Moraga this Wednesday. “Children need a quality education to prepare them to thrive in an increasingly more global economy and competitive world. One of my main priorities as a member of the Committee on Education and Workforce is to reform this broken system and to put an emphasis on fostering learning from a young age and ensuring that students leave high school or college career-ready. I look forward to speaking with education stakeholders in my district to hear what they think works and what needs to be improved. This tour will help educate me on the best ways to serve the residents of my district and will allow me to share with my colleagues the successes of California’s educational system,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. When: Wednesday, May 27, 2015 Where: Donald Rheem Elementary School 90 Laid Drive Moraga, CA 94556 Time: 1:00 pm to 2:00 pm (open to press and photographers). #
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C.—Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) introduced the Protecting Student Athletes from Concussions Act (H.R. 2062). This bill would create much-needed nationwide standards on concussion safety and establish tools for student athletes, parents, and school faculty to develop procedures on concussion prevention, detection, and treatment. In addition, it would require all schools that receive federal aid to develop a concussion management plan to ensure that students are informed about concussions and given the support they need to recover. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) has introduced similar legislation in the United States Senate. “Young athletes’ brains are still developing, which makes them more susceptible to injury and puts them at greater risk of sports-related concussions than college or professional athletes. Concussion rates among high school athletes have doubled between 2005 and 2012. This bill seeks to curb this trend by educating students, parents, and school personnel about how to recognize and respond to these injuries,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. “It used to be called ‘getting your bell rung’ but we now know that a concussion is something that should never be taken lightly,” Senator Durbin said. “Research has shown the serious long-term health risks associated with concussions in youth sports. I am glad to see that members in the House and Senate agree that more must be done to protect students from the dangers of these types of injuries.” The Protecting Student Athletes from Concussions Act is supported by the National Football League (NFL), National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), National PTA, American Physical Therapy Association, American Academy of Neurology, Children's National Health System, National Athletic Trainers’ Association, the National Interscholastic Athletic Administrators Association (NIAAA), USA Cheer, National Council of Youth Sports (NCYS), School Superintendents Association, and the National Disability Rights Network (NDRN). “The National Football League is pleased to support the ‘Protecting Student Athletes from Concussion Act.’ The legislation and other youth sports safety measures help to raise awareness and protect youth athletes from the risks of preventable brain injuries,” said the National Football League (NFL). “There are so many benefits to sports participation, but it is essential that youth and their families are knowledgeable about ways to stay safe on sports fields,” said Otha Thornton, President of National PTA. “It is a top priority of National PTA to ensure youth have the opportunity to experience the benefits and joys of sports participation, while staying safe and healthy. The association applauds Representative DeSaulnier for introducing the Protecting Student Athletes from Concussions Act of 2015 and for his commitment to educating and training students, families and school personnel on the prevention and treatment of concussions.” According to figures from the National Federation of State High School Associations, an estimated 140,000 students playing high school sports suffer concussions every year, though many go unreported. In order to address this problem, the bill establishes a “when in doubt, sit it out” policy that requires students suspected of sustaining a concussion to suspend participation in athletic events for the remainder of the day, be evaluated by a health care professional, and have the parents notified. Specifically, it provides students recovering from concussions the support they need as they return to school-based athletic and academic activities. It also directs states to develop concussion safety guidelines for public school districts, which include posting educational information on school grounds and school websites about concussion symptoms, risks, and recommended responses for student athletes, parents, coaches, and school officials in order to raise awareness of the danger of concussions among student athletes. Congressman DeSaulnier is a member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. Senator Durbin is the Assistant Democratic Leader in the United States Senate. #
05.20.2015	Washington, DC -- The House Majority passed a two-month extension of the Highway Trust Fund, which funds roads, bridges and public transit construction, instead of a longer-term plan to address our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. “There is no question our nation’s infrastructure is in dire need of repair. At the moment, 6,000 construction projects across the country are dependent on money from the Highway Trust Fund, and over 660,000 construction jobs hang in the balance as we head into the critical summer construction season. It is long past time for the Congress to end the practice of short-term patches and chronic underinvestment in our infrastructure. I will continue working with my colleagues on a well-funded, multi-year bill that makes necessary repairs, executes major capital investment projects and creates jobs,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. #
05.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), along with Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Congressman Ted Deutch (D-FL), have introduced the Distracted Driving Prevention Act (H.R. 2154). This bill would amend the process of granting money to states that have passed statutes to address distracted driving. “In this new age of pocket technology, we have the ability to receive and disseminate information within seconds. However, a few seconds of texting makes a driver three times more likely to be in an accident. Young and inexperienced drivers are at an increased risk, as they make up the majority of distraction-related fatal crashes. In California, I co-authored legislation to ban texting and the use of handheld devices. We must do more to incentivize states to pass similar laws to create safe roads for drivers, passengers and pedestrians,” said Congressman DeSaulnier (CA-11). On average, texting while driving requires a person to take his or her eyes off the road for five seconds. This means that if someone is driving at 55 MPH, he or she would have driven the entire length of a football field without looking at the road. In 2011, 17 percent of accidents – almost one in five – that resulted in injury involved driver distraction. Specifically, the legislation seeks to create new safety benchmarks for states looking to obtain grant funding, while simultaneously lowering administrative barriers to grant money. Distracted driver grants can be used to educate the public on the dangers of distracted driving, traffic signs to notify the public about distracted driving laws, law enforcement costs related to enforcement of distracted driving laws, and other highway safety projects. In order to be eligible for distracted driving grants, states will have had to pass statutes that: - Prohibit drivers from texting while driving; - Prohibit handheld cell phone use (i.e., talking on a handheld phone) while driving; - Allow a driver to use a hands-free device—other than a driver under the age of 18 who will not have hands-free capabilities—to initiate, conduct or receive telephone calls; - Make violations of the statute primary offenses; and - Establish a minimum penalty for the first violation of the statute and increased penalties for repeat violations. The Distracted Driving Prevention Act would also require the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to establish a research program to study distracted driving, by examining driver behavior, vehicle technology, and portable electronic devices that are commonly brought into vehicles. The Federal Communication Commission (FCC) would also be required to report to Congress on data and wireless communications technology, as well as authority that the FCC can use to assist in understanding and reducing distracted driving. Congressman DeSaulnier was a co-author of the California law, which banned texting while driving and the use of handheld devices. Currently, 14 states have laws prohibiting the use of handheld cell phones while driving, including California and New York. #
05.12.2015	Concord, CA -- Congressman DeSaulnier presented former Staff Sergeant Raymond Henderson, a U.S. Army Veteran, with certification of having received both the Purple Heart medal and the Army Commendation Medal with a “V” device, and paid tribute to Henderson’s service to our country. Like many Vietnam veterans, Mr. Henderson did not receive certification of receiving this distinction at the time he received the medals. At a small ceremony hosted by the Concord Vet Center, Mr. Henderson accepted this recognition. “It is an honor to be able to assist one of the many veterans in our community who have heroically served our country. Staff Sergeant Raymond deserves to be recognized for his courage and sacrifice, and it was a privilege to ensure that he received certification for these medals. I encourage other veterans in our area to reach out to my office if I can be of any assistance.” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Staff Sergeant Henderson received the Purple Heart for his heroic actions on July 6, 1965 while serving as adviser to a friendly force in the Republic of Vietnam. During the course of the Viet Cong attack, Staff Sergeant Henderson’s unit was subjected to intense small arms and mortar fire at which time he was wounded. While assisting in repairing a malfunctioning machine gun, he attempted to reach his assigned position in the communications bunker until the Viet Cong attack was repelled. His heroic actions were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Army and reflect great credit upon himself and his military service. Mr. Henderson is a veteran of three wars; he was a Merchant Marine in WWII and is a U.S. Army veteran of the Korean and Vietnam War. ###
05.06.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday night, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier announced the Grand Prize winner of the 2015 Eleventh Congressional District High School Art Competition, Ruth Asawa San Francisco School for the Arts senior Charles Alston of Richmond, whose winning piece consisted of an oil-based painting entitled “Self-Portrait.” The competition is a juried art show open to all high school students who are residents of the Eleventh Congressional District of California. "I extend my congratulations for a job well done to all of the talented young artists who participated in this year’s Congressional Art Competition and take this opportunity to recognize the Grand Prize winner from the Eleventh District, Charles Alston, whose work I look forward to seeing showcased in the U.S. Capitol Building,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. At a reception hosted at Diablo Valley College (DVC), Contra Costa County Arts and Culture Commissioner Dr. Darwin Marable, Saint Mary’s College of Moraga Art and Art History Professor Andrew Mount, and DVC Art and Photography Department Instructor Michelle Krup helped select the winning piece. The runners-up included Kelisha Abad with her piece entitled “Symmetry” and Jessica Perez with her piece entitled “War on Hunger.” Both contestants are students at College Park High School in Pleasant Hill and used digital photography for their pieces. The winning piece from the Eleventh Congressional District, along with winning artwork from all 50 states, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building for the next year. Next month, the winner and a guest will visit Washington, DC for a national reception honoring winners from across the country to celebrate the opening of the Capitol Exhibition. Since 1982, over 650,000 high school students from around the nation have participated in the Congressional Art Competition, which has allowed Members of Congress to acknowledge the artistic talents of their young constituents. #
05.06.2015	San Pablo -- As a newly appointed Member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier has launched an Education Listening Tour to visit schools across the district and to hear firsthand from students, parents, educators and school administrators about ways to improve our educational system. DeSaulnier began the tour early this year, and plans to visit every school district in CA-11. Mark has added two new stops at Contra Costa College in San Pablo and Miramonte High School in Orinda. “Children need a quality education to prepare them to thrive in an increasingly more global economy and competitive world. One of my main priorities as a member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce is to reform this broken system and to put an emphasis on fostering learning from a young age and ensuring that students leave high school or college career-ready. I look forward to speaking with education stakeholders in my district to hear what they think works and what needs to be improved. This tour will help educate me on the best ways to serve the residents of my district and will allow me to share with my colleagues the successes of California’s educational system,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. When: Wednesday, May 6, 2015 Where: Contra Costa College 2600 Mission Bell Drive San Pablo, CA 94806 Time: 3:30 pm to 4:30 pm (open to press and photographers). When: Monday, May 11, 2015 Where: Miramonte High School(Acalanes Union High School District) 750 Moraga Way Orinda, CA 94563 Time: 2:00 pm to 3:00 pm (open to press and photographers) #
04.29.2015	Washington -- In light of the report released by the California State Auditor on the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) District, Congressman DeSaulnier made the following statement. DeSaulnier has been involved in Bay Area transportation for years, has worked closely to avoid strikes, and was one of the officials who requested the State Auditor report. “Now that we have the auditor’s report back and recommendations on remedies to prevent future commute disruptions, it is past time for the Bay Area to invest fully in its infrastructure. The Bay Area ranks 19th in the world when compared to national economies. Yet, the Metropolitan Transportation Commission projects a $43 billion shortfall in maintaining and operating transportation systems during the coming decades. It is time for the public sector to invest in transportation. We have the highest density of venture capital firms in the world in our area. We need the same type of investment and innovation in transportation systems. This generation must continue the stewardship of the Bay Area economy that previous generations bestowed on us,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). Congressman DeSaulnier previously served as the Chair of the State Senate Transportation and Housing Committee and in the State Assembly as the first freshman in history to chair the Assembly Transportation Committee. While in the State Senate, he was also the Chair of the Senate Labor and Industrial Relationships Committee. As a member of the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors, he was appointed to the Metropolitan Transportation Commission and the Association of Bay Area Governments. He currently serves as a member of the U.S. House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and sits on the Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets. Link to the full report by the State Auditor on the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system can be found here. #
04.22.2015	Washington, DC -- Over the past few months the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has held hearings on key agencies, including the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and the Chemical Safety Board (CSB), regarding failings that begin at the top. The investigations have revealed ineffective leadership that threatens the credibility of these agencies to carry out their important mission. “Today’s news that the DEA Chief will retire comes on the heels of the resignation of the Chairman of the U.S. Chemical Safety Board. Those who serve in positions of authority have an obligation to uphold the highest standards of leadership and accountability. These departures are evidence of successful bi-partisan efforts to restore accountability in key agencies meant to serve and protect the public. Misconduct by management and waste in government agencies has been a recurring theme in recent committee hearings, and I am committed to continuing to do what is necessary to restore the public’s trust in government oversight,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). #
04.21.2015	Pittsburg -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will continue to meet one-on-one with constituents during mobile district office hours in Pittsburg, Saturday, April 25th from 11 am to 1 pm. Mobile District Office Hours are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding town hall meetings and listening tours across the district. “People are busy and I want them to have easy and direct access to the information and assistance they need. That’s why, in addition to two district offices, I have instituted a plan to host mobile district office hours at locations all across Contra Costa County during my first two years in office,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. Congressman DeSaulnier will be available to share thoughts and to answer questions on federal legislation, and to assist with issues related to Social Security, the Veteran’s Administration, passports, or other federal agencies. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s Mobile District Office Hours When: Saturday, April 25th, from 11 am to 1 pm. Where: Pittsburg City Hall, 65 Civic Avenue, Pittsburg, CA 94565. Check in at the main lobby. No appointment necessary. For More Information: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
04.02.2015	Concord -- Congressman Mark DeSaulnier will host town halls on Monday, April 6th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm in Concord and Wednesday, April 8th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm in Richmond. Town halls are one part of Congressman DeSaulnier’s efforts to be accessible to constituents. He is also holding mobile district office hours and listening tours across the district. “I invite residents to listen to a presentation and legislative update about my first 100 days in Congress. At the town halls, I hope constituents will share their thoughts on issues of importance, and learn about the broad range of constituent services my office can provide,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s “First 100 Days” Town Hall When: Monday, April 6th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Concord City Council Chambers, 1950 Parkside Drive, Concord, CA. What: Congressman DeSaulnier’s “First 100 Days” Town Hall When: Wednesday, April 8th, from 6:30 pm to 8:00 pm. Check-in begins at 6:00 pm. Where: Lovonya DeJean Middle School Multipurpose Room, 3400 Macdonald Avenue, Richmond, CA. For More Information or to request ADA accommodations: Please email CA11.RSVP@mail.house.gov or call (925) 933-2660. #
03.26.2015	Washington, DC -- “In order for the U.S. Chemical Safety Board to continue to carry out its important role, I was among the first to call for the resignation of Chairman Moure-Eraso. The CSB needs leadership committed to implementing more rigorous standards and accountability as its critical safety mission is too important to be undermined by ineffective leadership. After serving many years in local, regional and state air quality agencies and having authored the most stringent and effective worker safety and air quality rules in the country, I know how critical it is to have effective leadership in this important organization. I am pleased President Obama recognizes the need for reform of the agency and is taking this necessary step,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). Link to the full committee release on Chemical Safety Board Chairman Dr. Rafael Moure-Eraso’s expected resignation can be found here. #
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer and Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (both D-CA) today introduced legislation to expand the Martinez, California historic site that celebrates the life and legacy of John Muir. The John Muir National Historic Site Expansion Act would authorize the National Park Service to acquire land that is being donated through a trust, which would improve access to the park and provide more for visitors to see and do at the site. “John Muir was the father of the National Park Service and he worked tirelessly to preserve our country’s public lands for future generations,” Senator Boxer said. “This bill will honor his legacy by improving public access to this historic site, providing more for visitors to do, and connecting the site to the Bay Area Ridge Trail.” “With the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service, it would be a fitting tribute to honor John Muir by expanding the site where he lived, wrote and brought to life the conservation movement. Today we have over 400 National Parks, and I am honored to represent the place where this idea was born and where it developed into a model to be copied throughout the world,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). Although the land is being donated by the Muir Heritage Land Trust, congressional approval of the acquisition is necessary because the acreage of the donated land parcel exceeds the percentage of land that the Park Service is allowed to acquire administratively. The 44-acre addition would include lands once part of the estate of John Swett, a former California Superintendent of Public Education who helped found the California Teachers Association, and was a neighbor and friend to John Muir in the Alhambra Valley Hills. Muir is considered the “father of the National Park Service.” He was a lifelong conservationist who helped create Yosemite and Sequoia National Parks, and was a founder of the Sierra Club. The John Muir National Historic Site, which stretches across 330 acres currently, includes the home where Muir lived until he died in 1914. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) joined Boxer and DeSaulnier as an original cosponsor of the legislation. Former Congressman George Miller (D-Martinez) first introduced the bill on November 13, 2014, and it passed the House in December 2014. ###
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C.—U.S. Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) and Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (PA-05) introduced H.R. 1194, the Family Engagement in Education Act, a bipartisan bill to provide resources for schools to improve family engagement in education. “Education doesn’t stop at the end of the school day. Research shows that family engagement in a child’s learning experience increases student achievement, improves attendance, and reduces dropout rates. That’s why I am happy to join Congressman Thompson in introducing this bipartisan bill that would promote effective family engagement strategies where they are most needed. As we continue discussions around reauthorizing the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), this should be a serious part of the conversation,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). “Parents and family members play a crucial role in helping students succeed in the classroom,” said Thompson. “I have said before that we must do everything possible to get parents out of the bleachers and back into the classroom. The future of American competitiveness and a student’s ability to succeed in life are dependent upon their education. Studies show that when parents are more involved, students’ achievements in school are significantly increased.” "National PTA firmly believes that family engagement is at the core of student success and school improvement,” said Otha Thornton, president of National PTA in a separate release. “The association commends Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA) and Glenn Thompson (R-PA) and Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Chris Coons (D-DE) for their bipartisan leadership and continued commitment to the importance of family engagement and family-school partnerships to ensure every child succeeds academically and reaches his or her full potential,” she added. ###
03.03.2015	“The timing of Prime Minister Netayahu’s speech to Congress is a detriment to furthering a two-state solution, to ensuring honest negotiations with Iran, and is political in timing. Circumventing Congressional protocol is disrespectful to the President of the United States and runs counterproductive to working with the Administration and the American people. That being said, as a new Member of Congress I reluctantly decided to attend out of respect for the Democratic State of Israel and the Israeli people,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11).
02.18.2015	Walnut Creek -- As a newly appointed Member of the House Education & Workforce Committee, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier is launching an Education Listening Tour to visit schools across the district and to hear firsthand from students, parents, educators and school administrators about ways to improve our educational system. DeSaulnier will begin the tour by visiting three schools the week of February 16th. “Children need a quality education to prepare them to thrive in an increasingly more global economy and competitive world. One of my main priorities as a member of the Committee on Education and Workforce is to reform this broken system and to put an emphasis on fostering learning from a young age and ensuring that students leave high school or college career-ready. I look forward to speaking with education stakeholders in my district to hear what they think works and what needs to be improved. This tour will help educate me on the best ways to serve the residents of my district and will allow me to share with my colleagues the successes of California’s educational system,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. When: Tuesday, February 17th, 2015 Where: Monte Vista High School 3131 Stone Valley Road Danville, CA Time: 2:00 pm to 2:45 pm (open to press and photographers) Along with students, parents and educators, Principal Janet Terranova and Superintendent Mary Shelton, San Ramon Valley Unified School District will participate in the tour. When: Wednesday, February 18th, 2015 Where: Mt. Diablo High School 2450 Grant Street Concord, CA 94520 (925) 682-4030 Time: 2:00 pm to 3:00 pm (open to press and photographers) Along with students, parents and educators, Principal Mrs. Liane Cismowski and Superintendent Nellie Meyer, Mt. Diablo High School will participate in the tour. When: Thursday, February 19th, 2015 Where: Diablo Valley College Diablo Valley College 321 Golf Club Road Pleasant Hill, CA Time: 2:00 pm to 3:00 pm (open to press and photographers) Along with students, educators, and President Peter Garcia will participate in the tour. #
01.28.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will serve on the Committee on Oversight & Government Reform’s subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets. “During my time in the California legislature I fought to ensure greater transparency and accessibility. Whether leading the investigation into the construction of the Bay Bridge or passing the law that requires the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) to develop the state’s transportation plans in a more strategic and open manner, oversight and accountability have always been a top priority. I hope to apply this experience, and what we have learned in California, on the federal level,” said Congressman DeSaulnier. The transportation subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and the Transportation Security Agency. It also has purview over the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the General Services Administration and federal real property. DeSaulnier will also serve on the subcommittee on Healthcare, Benefits, and Administrative Rules which has oversight jurisdiction over federal health care policy, the Department of Health and Human Services, Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and government-wide rules and regulations. DeSaulnier will bring his previous oversight experience on these issues, most recently as a member of the California State Senate Committees on Human Services, and on Budget and Fiscal Review’s subcommittee on Health and Human Services. Added DeSaulnier, “oversight of social and human services programs is critical to the health and well-being of our families and communities. We need to balance accountability of taxpayer dollars with quality and effective programs.” #
01.21.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will serve on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee in the 114th Congress. Last week DeSaulnier announced his assignment to the Education & Workforce Committee. “The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has broad authority to investigate matters and conduct aggressive oversight to maintain a well-functioning government and to keep the public informed. One of my top priorities in the California legislature was to ensure government is transparent, that proper oversight occurs, and that taxpayer dollars are judiciously used. I appreciate the opportunity to bring this experience to federal matters and look forward to working with Chairman Jason Chaffetz and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings and all of my colleagues on the Committee,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). “With over 20 years of public service, Congressman DeSaulnier will bring strong leadership, expertise, and a fresh perspective to the Oversight Committee. I look forward to working with him to reach responsible solutions to the issues affecting our nation and ensure that the federal government works for the American people,” said Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah Cummings. “Rep. Mark DeSaulnier has been a stalwart leader in holding government accountable and protecting the interests of taxpayers and the public. He is incisive, persistent and fair. He asks the right questions, the tough questions and expects nothing short of open, honest and complete answers. California taxpayers have benefitted directly and immensely from his leadership on transparency, accountability and good government, and now all U.S. taxpayers will enjoy the same,” said Jim Wunderman, President and CEO of the Bay Area Council. The Bay Area Council is one of the leading business groups founded in the San Francisco Bay Area whose membership includes Chevron, Kaiser, Safeway, and others. #
01.20.2015	Washington, DC- Following President Obama’s State of the Union address this evening, Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) released the following statement: “Tonight, President Obama’s speech focused on growing our economy ‘from the middle.’ The average American employee would have to work 257 years to make what a typical Fortune 500 CEO makes in a year. It is long past time to address income inequality in our country; something that I have been working on in California where we passed legislation to incentivize companies to decrease the disparity between workers and CEOs. We must continue on this path by coming together to restore the middle class. Working families should be guaranteed a livable wage and paychecks should go farther. By 2020, an estimated 35 percent of job openings will require at least a bachelor’s degree and 30 percent will require some college or an associate’s degree. Education should be more affordable and accessible for students in California and across the country, and investments in job training are necessary to keep good paying jobs here at home. I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to increase economic opportunity for all,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11).
01.13.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) announced that he will serve on the Education and Workforce Committee in the 114th Congress. "I am delighted to be appointed to serve on the House Education and Workforce Committee. The big issues which families across Contra Costa County discuss at their kitchen tables -- getting a good job that pays a decent wage, ensuring their kids receive a quality, affordable education, and planning and saving for retirement -- are all squarely within this Committee's jurisdiction. For the past 40 years, George Miller honorably served on this same Committee and was a champion for students, teachers, workers, seniors, and the middle class. I am proud to succeed George and continue the 11th Congressional District's representation on the Education and Workforce Committee. This year the Committee is expected to revisit the No Child Left Behind Act and reauthorize the Higher Education Act. I also look forward to being a voice on the committee for working families. I am excited to get to work and to take a leading role on these and other Committee matters," said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier. "I congratulate Congressman Mark DeSaulnier on his assignment to the Committee on Education and the Workforce for the 114th Congress. This is a great win for California's 11th Congressional District. Continued success for our community and our nation begins by investing in our children and creating high-quality, good paying jobs. Congressman DeSaulnier is a dynamic leader, with a proven track record of fighting for the middle class and investing in our nation's youth in the California Legislature. I am confident that he will bring the same passion and commitment to this assignment addressing one of our nation's most pressing needs," said Congressman George Miller. “I am thrilled that Congressman Mark DeSaulnier has been appointed to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. Mark is a proven leader for the state of California. I know he will continue his strong support for education and will work on behalf of children, families and communities throughout the nation,” Tom Torlakson, State Superintendent of Public Instruction. “Mark has always been a champion for children and education in Contra Costa County," said Karen Sakata, Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools. "I am excited to work together with the Congressman on initiatives that will continue to move us forward as a county.” #
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Mark DeSaulnier was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Mark DeSaulnier was elected to serve as representative of California’s 11th Congressional District. Representative Mark DeSaulnier was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
