03.06.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing Mr. Allan G. Kimball. Mr. Kimball is retiring after serving for 21 years as the Theatre Director of Southeastern Illinois College. "The community at Southeastern Illinois College has been greatly impacted by his service," Shimkus said. "The theatre, and its stage that now bears his name, will be a symbol of his significant role at the college and a reminder of his passion and dedication." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Schlarman Academy Girls' Basketball Team on their IHSA Class 1A State Championship – the team's second consecutive state title. "Head Coach Keith Peoples has molded a team with both a high-powered offense and a stingy defense," said Shimkus. "During the past two seasons, the Hilltoppers have posted a combined 62-3 record." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
02.19.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing Elizabeth Weidner of Dieterich for exemplary volunteer service in her community. "Elizabeth is being recognized for bringing attention to the tragedy of childhood cancer through a website, social media, speeches, lobbying efforts, the recognition she has received as a top contender in several pageants, as well as being an ambassador for this cause," said Shimkus. The congressman met with Ms. Weidner earlier this year. "I came away from our discussion very impressed with her in-depth knowledge of government programs aimed at addressing childhood cancer as well as her passion and character," Shimkus said. "It's crucial that we encourage and support the kind of selfless contribution this young woman has made." The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON — Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted Thursday in support of the final Fiscal Year 2019 spending agreement. “Speaker Pelosi said she would give President Trump just $1 for the border wall, and this deal provides $1,374,999,999 more than she offered," said Shimkus. "That’s a huge win for the Border Patrol agents who, because of this agreement, will soon have 55 miles of new physical barrier where they say they need it most.” The Senate and House-passed bill now goes to the White House where President Trump is expected to sign it before declaring a national emergency related to the situation at the border. “The crisis at our border is a national emergency,” Shimkus added. The congressman also today requested that his name be added to H.R. 714, the EL CHAPO Act. This legislation would reserve any amounts forfeited to the United States Government as a result of the criminal prosecution of Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera (commonly known as “El Chapo”), for security measures along the Southern border — including the completion of a border wall. ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to President Donald Trump's State of the Union Address to Congress tonight: “In his first address to a divided government, President Trump reported on his record — a stronger economy, a more powerful military, and a modernized tax code that’s putting more money in middle class families' pockets. He noted important bipartisan achievements as well, including criminal justice reform, workforce education, landmark VA reform, and legislation to combat the opioid crisis. "To build on that record of success, the president also urged Congress to act on his priorities — securing our borders and reforming our broken immigration system; rebuilding our infrastructure; lowering drug prices and health care costs; and renegotiating fairer trade deals. On some of these issues we might find the bipartisan agreement we need to move forward. Others may take longer to find compromise. I look forward to working with President Trump and advancing the bold agenda he proposed tonight.” ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON – On the eve of the annual March for Life in Washington, DC, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced he will again cosponsor several pro-life bills that were reintroduced in the 116th Congress. "My position on the fundamental right to life has never changed and never will," said Shimkus. "I supported these important pro-life bills in previous sessions of Congress, and I'm proud to support them again." As of today, Shimkus has requested that he be recorded as a cosponsor of: H.R. 369, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, introduced by Rep. Vicki Hartzler (R, Missouri-04) This bill prohibits funding America's largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood, for one year and reallocates the savings to community health centers. The bill is identical to H.R. 354 in the 115th Congress. H.R. __, the Life at Conception Act, to be introduced by Rep. Alex Mooney (R, West Virginia-02) This bill declares that life begins at conception and extends legal protections to children still in the womb. The bill is identical to H.R. 681 in the 115th Congress. H.R. __, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, to be introduced by Rep. Chris Smith (R, New Jersey-04) This bill prohibits performing an abortion on an unborn baby who is 20 weeks or older. The bill is identical to H.R. 36 in the 115th Congress. H.R. __, the Heartbeat Protection Bill, to be introduced by Rep. Steve King (R, Iowa-04) This bill prohibits an abortion if an unborn child's heartbeat is detectable. The bill is identical to H.R. 490 in the 115th Congress. ###
01.07.2019	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is once again asking constituents to participate in his annual “Valentines for Heroes” program. The congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution throughout the region to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Tens of thousands of valentines have come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” Shimkus said. “Elementary and middle school classes, church youth groups, homeschoolers, senior citizens and constituents from every corner of the district have been overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present.” This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 8 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062 City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 325, Danville, IL 61832 Constituents should return signed valentines without addressing them to a specific person; without signing their last name or including their address; and without sealing them in individual envelopes. All valentines are reviewed for content and appropriateness before distribution, and constituents can call the congressman’s Maryville Office at (618) 288-7190 with questions ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Harmony Way Bridge over the Wabash River between White County, Illinois, and Posey County, Indiana, may soon have a new life. The engineering marvel built in 1930 has sat unused since being permanently closed in 2012 due to structural issues. Federal law that created the White County Bridge Commission to purchase the structure from a private company in 1941 has prevented the two states from being able to take advantage of popular ideas to repurpose the bridge since its closing. That is on the verge of changing, thanks in large part to the Restore Harmony Way Bridge Act, H.R. 6793, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously Tuesday. "I am happy that the hard work of so many people of both sides of the Wabash is about to come to fruition," said Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), whose district includes the Illinois portion of the bridge. "In particular, I want to thank Congressman Larry Bucshon (R, Indiana-8), who authored the legislation, which conveys the structure to a New Harmony Bridge Bi-State Commission established by Illinois and Indiana." That new commission will be tasked with deciding the future of the bridge, which connected Illinois Route 14 with Indiana State Road 66, known as Church Street in New Harmony, Indiana. Every House member of the Illinois and Indiana delegations cosponsored H.R. 6793. Companion legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Todd Young (R, Indiana). ###
11.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (Illinois-15) and Congressman Bill Flores (Texas-17) today released a discussion draft of the 21st Century Transportation Fuels Act. “I’ve been engaged in the biofuel debate my entire career in Congress,” said Shimkus, whose district includes significant corn and soybean producers as well as major ethanol and oil refiners. “In this Congress – through three stakeholder roundtables, five subcommittee hearings, and countless other meetings and conversations – my goal was to look beyond just the Renewable Fuel Standard to comprehensively reshape federal transportation fuel policies in a way that could provide more value to consumers and more certainty to industry stakeholders." “Much has changed in the markets for vehicles and fuels since the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) was established in 2005, and subsequently expanded in 2007. We have learned from robust stakeholder input through hearings, roundtables and meetings, that higher octane fuels can bring increased fuel economy and performance for next generation engines. Since ethanol is one of the lowest-cost sources of octane in many areas of the country, a transition from the RFS beginning in 2023 to a national octane specification creates new market opportunities for biofuel producers and gives certainty to refining stakeholders. Most importantly, the draft legislation preserves consumer choice and optimum fuel and vehicle costs for more efficient transportation for future decades,” Flores commented. “The draft legislation we are sharing today enables a transition to 21st century vehicle drivetrains by bringing together both new ideas and technologies as well as long-sought reforms to existing policies,” the congressmen added. “This sets the stage to modernize federal polices and deliver a new generation of more efficient and cost-effective vehicles and engines and fuels for American consumers. We appreciate the stakeholders who have engaged in this effort and look forward to continuing to improve upon the policies and legislative language we’ve put forward for consideration and discussion.” The text of the draft 21st Century Transportation Fuels Act can be found below. UPDATE (12/3/2018): A section-by-section summary of the bill can be found HERE. ###
11.05.2018	McLeansboro, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) last week announced the City of McLeansboro was awarded a $2.4 million U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development loan to replace the city's water tower. The financing comes on top of a $30,000 planning grant the city received earlier this year. “Rural Development is privileged to support this new water tower project and what it means for McLeansboro”, said Douglas Wilson, USDA Rural Development Director, Illinois. “We know the importance of modern water infrastructure to further economic opportunity and enhance quality of life.” The city's current water tower is not large enough to provide the average daily flow required for the 6,883 users on the system. Replacing the existing tower will also satisfy a potential health hazard identified by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. “I congratulate McLeansboro and Mayor Dietz on the city's successful grant application,” Congressman Shimkus said. “Rural Development grants help communities complete major infrastructure projects like this that could be otherwise difficult to finance." Shimkus added that his office can assist with these grants as well as other federal grant program applications. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced a USDA Rural Development Grant of $682,800 to help complete construction of a water treatment plant in Wayne City. Once finished, the plant will provide safe and potable water to 663 users in Wayne County. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development projects and equipment upgrades possible for rural communities," Shimkus said. "My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that John and Robin Chomko of Collinsville have been honored by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute in Washington, DC as 2018 Angels in Adoption. John and Robin Chomko with Congressman Shimkus on Capitol Hill "John and Robin opened their hearts and their home to 13 adopted children after the birth of their two biological sons in 1993 and 1995," Shimkus said. "God's grace and the Chomko's deep faith are awe inspiring, and the family they have grown together is a testament to the power of love and the importance of adoption." The Angels in Adoption Program, through the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute, honors individuals and organizations who make extraordinary contributions to adoption, permanency and child welfare. The program aims to shine a spotlight on adoption and allow awardees to share their firsthand adoption experiences with members of Congress and the public. For more information on the Angels in Adoption Program, visit ccainstitute.org ###
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) says Republican policies are helping boost household income in central and southern Illinois. Since President Trump took office, median household income in Illinois' 15th Congressional District rose from $49,927 in 2016 to $52,472 in 2017 – an increase of $2,600 or 5.2 percent. Nationally, median household income rose 2.6 percent during the same period. "By virtually every measure the national economy is booming," Shimkus said. "And as more localized data becomes available, it's clearly showing that Republican policies put in place under the Trump Administration are working in the communities I represent." The inflation-adjusted income data comes from the latest American Community Survey released this month. Shimkus says he expects the tax cuts enacted last year to continue putting more money in families' pockets. "Because of all the misinformation out there, some folks are still concerned they’ll be paying more when they file their federal income taxes next year," Shimkus said. "The reality is taxpayers at every income level will get to keep more of their paychecks under our new tax code." For example, when taxpayers file their 2018 taxes next year: A family of four, with two children, earning $62,000 a year will owe $1,728 less than they did in tax year 2017; A single mother, with one child, earning $39,000 a year will owe $1,244 less; and A retired couple earning $25,000 a year will owe just $100 in federal income taxes ($270 less than they owed for tax year 2017). Anyone looking to estimate their savings under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act can use the Tax Foundation's Tax Reform Calculator at taxfoundation.org/2018-tax-reform-calculator ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the St. Lawrence Catholic Church in Greenville on their 150th Anniversary. "Since its start, St. Lawrence has had a strong presence in Greenville and been a focal point for the religious and spiritual needs of the community," Shimkus said. "I want to wish its pastor, Father Alan Hunter, and parishioners of St. Lawrence Catholic Church, the very best as they celebrate 150 years of service." The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced federal investments in Richland, Wabash, and Edwards Counties totaling $567,620. Through the Economic Development Administration, the Illinois Eastern Community College District was awarded $300,000. Those funds will be used to upgrade workforce training facilities at West Richland Center in Noble, Olney Central College, and Wabash Valley College in Mt. Carmel. Separately, firefighters in West Salem were awarded a federal grant of $267,620. Those funds may be used to purchase new emergency vehicles, including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, or ambulances. “I congratulate both the fire protection and community college districts on their successful grant applications " Shimkus said. "My office can assist communities with these types of grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced the Ashmore Fire Protection District was awarded a $237,143 federal grant. The funds may be used to purchase new emergency vehicles, including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, or ambulances. “FEMA's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps rural communities purchase, upgrade, and maintain the tools and equipment they need to respond to fires and emergencies of all types," Shimkus said. "My office can assist communities with these grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the exemplary community service of Donnie McMaster of Westville, Illinois. A candidate for Eagle Scout in Boy Scout in Troop 234, Donnie worked hard to improve the lives of our local veterans at Cannon Place, an apartment for formerly homeless veterans and their families. "Donnie expanded the entertainment opportunities of the residents by building four cornhole sets, a board game set, and a horseshoe pit," Shimkus said. "He also added stepping stone walkways, set in mulch and bordered with logs, as well as fixed two flower beds." "This young man's dedication and hard work means that today some of our veterans can spend time outside with their families enjoying the games and landscaping he provided," Shimkus added. "I want to acknowledge the efforts of Donnie McMaster to bring joy to our nation's veterans and congratulate him on completing his Eagle Scout Project." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced the Homer Fire Protection District was awarded a $47,281 federal grant. The funds may be used for professional training, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and other supplies that support firefighting operations and safety. “FEMA's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps rural communities purchase, upgrade, and maintain the tools and equipment they need to respond to fires and emergencies of all types," Shimkus said. "My office can assist communities with these grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced the Mattoon Fire Department was awarded a $200,0000 federal grant. The funds may be used for professional training, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and other supplies that support firefighting operations and safety. “FEMA's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps rural communities purchase, upgrade, and maintain the tools and equipment they need to respond to fires and emergencies of all types," Shimkus said. "My office can assist communities with these grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the City of Albion's Bicentennial. "Albion has played an important role in Illinois history, with connections to Governor Louis Lincoln Emmerson as well as a close friend of President Lincoln, Congressman William Pickering." Shimkus said. "I offer my congratulations to the city of Albion on their bicentennial anniversary, and I wish them many more." The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
09.07.2018	Effingham, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, as well as qualifying college students, should apply now for 2019 admission. “As the school year begins, many high school seniors are thinking about their future. As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, I am eager to provide information and assistance with nominations to the military academies,” said Shimkus. To be eligible for a nomination, a candidate must be an American citizen, at least 17 years old and no more than 23 years old on July 1, 2019, not married, under no legal obligation to support a child, and a legal resident of the 15th District of Illinois. Applications will be accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Acceptance of a service academy appointment requires at least a nine-year service obligation, which includes four years at the academy and five years of active duty service. Students should complete the application available online at shimkus.house.gov/services/academyand return it by Nov. 1, 2018 to the congressman’s Effingham district office. More information is available by calling (217) 347-7947. While Congressman Shimkus nominates candidates to the academies; academy officials make the final selection regarding admission. A separate application must be made to each academy a nominee is interested in. “I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact my office as soon as possible,” Shimkus added. “There are no fees to apply to the academies and no commitment is necessary at this point in the process.” ###
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced the Bismark Fire Protection District was awarded a $136,000 federal grant. The funds may be used for professional training, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and other supplies that support firefighting operations and safety. “FEMA's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps rural communities purchase, upgrade, and maintain the tools and equipment they need to respond to fires and emergencies of all types," Shimkus said. "My office can assist communities with these grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
08.29.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced a USDA Rural Development Grant of $40,000 to purchase a new John Deere 3150 Backhoe loader for the Village of Brownstown. The village's current equipment is more than 19 years old and in need of major repairs. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development projects and equipment upgrades possible for rural communities," Shimkus said. "My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
08.29.2018	WASHINGTON — Congressman John Shimkus (R-Ill.) released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: “Senator John McCain devoted his life to the country he loved and served as the very model of a warrior and statesman. The legacy of his many decades of public service left no question that he unapologetically put country first. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, loved ones, and our nation that now mourns his passing.” ###
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Ill.), Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment, released the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule: “A majority of the states, a majority of Congress, along with dozens of rural electric co-ops, trade associations and labor unions rejected the previous administration’s overreaching Clean Power Plan. We knew the costs – from the loss of jobs, manufacturing, and energy security – would ultimately outweigh the purported benefits of the plan’s Washington-knows-best approach to environmental policy. “I’m glad to see the Trump Administration return to the principles of cooperative federalism that have successfully and impressively reduced air pollution for decades. Rather than dictate burdensome, top-down mandates on the states, the Affordable Clean Energy rule seeks to empower states to continue reducing emissions in ways that best fit their various energy portfolios.” ###
08.06.2018	Maryville, Illinois – While traveling the 15th Congressional District during the August District Work Period, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) touted legislation supported by President Donald Trump to strengthen our military and keep our promises to those who served. "We live in dangerous, unpredictable times," said Shimkus, a graduate of West Point and retired Army Lieutenant Colonel. "The threats we face are not just the terror networks and plots we've been disrupting for more than a decade, but also major powers like Russia, China, and North Korea who wield a range of nuclear, conventional, and cyber weapons." To ensure our military remains the greatest fighting force in the history of the world, Shimkus supported legislation this Congress to add 20,000 troops, give them a 2.6 percent pay raise (the largest in nine years), and invest in our missile defense capabilities, combat vehicles, as well as new aircraft (including F/A-18s built in St. Louis) and submarines. Detailed summaries of the current and past National Defense Authorization Acts that Shimkus voted for can be found at armedservices.house.gov/ndaa "Providing the resources and training our troops need doesn't end when they leave active duty," Shimkus added. "And it's no exaggeration to say that this Congress and this president have enacted the most sweeping reforms to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in a generation." Major VA reforms signed into law this Congress include: The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, which created a streamlined and efficient process to remove, demote or suspend any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct. The VA MISSION Act, which consolidated the VA’s multiple community care programs and authorities and provides further funding to sustain the Choice Program so veterans can get the care they earned and deserve. The Forever GI Bill, which removed restrictions so eligible veterans can use their education benefits throughout their lives, instead of the current 15-year deadline. "Our military and our veterans are better off now because of these bipartisan bills I supported and that President Trump signed into law," Shimkus said. "Veterans, or any constituent, having issues with the VA or any federal government agency are always welcome to contact my office for assistance." Congressman Shimkus also regularly sends a veteran-specific newsletter with information and updates. Constituents can sign up for that, as well as more general email updates, at shimkus.house.gov ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) addressed the House of Representatives on July 19 to honor longtime Shelbyville, Illinois resident Jack Edward Schurman. Mr. Schurman served as chairman of the congressman's Veterans Advisory Committee for many years. TRANSCRIPT: "Mr. Speaker, I rise before you today to speak about Mr. Jack Edward Schurman, a longtime resident of Shelbyville, Illinois, in my 15th Congressional District, a disabled veteran, an advocate for former military men and women throughout the Nation, and chairman of my Veterans Advisory Committee, and, I am proud to say, my friend. "Born in Iowa in 1939, Jack joined the Navy in 1959 and rose to the rank of yeoman third class before a disability cut short his service in 1964. Jack made his way to Illinois, and, in 1976, he married Nancy Ellen Cranford. They raised two daughters, Kelli Ann and Kim Marie. "As chairman of my Veterans Advisory Committee, Jack has led our meetings for years, bringing valuable experience and perspective. "Unfortunately, Jack’s health has declined to a point where his mobility is limited, and doctors have declared that he should no longer live on his own, which is what he has done since his beloved wife passed away in 2016. Jack is now in Mississippi, thanks to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, which located a suitable residence for him near the home of one of his daughters. "Mr. Speaker, members of my Veterans Advisory Committee and I will miss Jack. We want to thank him for his tremendous service throughout the years and wish him the best of health and happiness in this next chapter of his remarkable life." ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the hard-working men and women of the Shawnee National Forest Service, the Lusk Conservancy District and the Pope County Board of Commissioners. Together these groups were able to create the Lusk Creek Kayak Ramp to give Southern Illinois residents and visitors safer and easier boat access to Lusk Creek. Tom Taylor of the Shawnee Conservancy District (left) and Congressman John Shimkus (right) in the Shawnee National Forest "This newly constructed project represents the only public developed access point on Lusk Creek upstream from the State Recreation Area Marina in Golconda," Shimkus said. "I have recently visited the completed kayak ramp, and was impressed with what these different organizations in the area were able to come together to create." The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement regarding trade and President Trump's historic visit to Granite City, Illinois: “I can see Granite City Works from my house in Collinsville, and most all of us who call Madison County home have had a friend, a neighbor, or a relative – my late grandfather worked there – who earned a good living because of that steel plant. It’s undeniable that President Trump’s trade policies have brought hundreds of steel jobs back to Illinois, and I’m happy for the workers, their families, and our community. I’m proud to represent some of those steelworkers, just as I’m also proud to represent thousands of corn, bean, and pork producers across 33 counties in central and southern Illinois. I appreciate the president’s commitment to helping my farmers, as he’s already helped my steelworkers, by fighting back against those who engage in unfair trade practices. The sooner we negotiate better trade deals, the better off all my constituents will be.” ###
07.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Sacred Heart Church in Effingham, Illinois on their 125th Anniversary. "Whether by providing an education to its children, giving back through its community-based services, or extending Sacred Heart's ministry to South America, Sacred Heart Church has been a focal point for the religious and spiritual needs of Effingham," Shimkus said. "I wish the church, and its pastor, the Reverend Michal Rosa, the very best as they celebrate the church's 125th anniversary." The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after being selected to serve on the House-Senate conference committee on the Farm Bill. “As the representative of one of the top corn, bean, and pork producing districts in the country, I’m honored to serve on this year’s Farm Bill conference committee. While my role as a member of the Energy & Commerce Committee limits my engagement to rural broadband provisions of the bill, being a part of the deliberations gives a greater voice to the interests of our state and the 15th District.” ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the recent election of Champaign County resident Sophia Hortin as Illinois' State FFA President. "Sophia's love for agriculture began on her family farm just outside of Fisher, IL," Shimkus said. "Sophia embraces all aspects of farming from cleaning grain bins, raising hogs, and even field tillage work. However, her favorite job is hauling grain to local elevators, a job Sophia has done since she got her Class B license when she was 16." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement regarding Russia: "As a member of the House Baltic Caucus and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I’ve observed Russia aggression and meddling in Eastern Europe for years. “It’s no surprise, and there is no doubt, that Russia interfered with our elections, and that they have a continued interest in sowing distrust in our institutions and our Republic. Russia is no ally, and Vladimir Putin is no friend, of the United States. We must continue to exert our diplomatic, economic, and defensive military strengths, along with those of our NATO allies, to hold Russia accountable for their actions.” NOTE: For more extensive commentary on Russia and NATO from Congressman Shimkus, please see: I would die for Tallinn (because I would have died for Bonn, Paris, and London) and Standing Up to Russia: Yesterday & Today on his Medium page. ###
07.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement following President Trump's nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court: "Brett Kavanaugh is exactly the kind of judge we need on the Supreme Court, one who bases decisions on the Constitution and the rule of law. He sees the judicial branch for what it is: coequal to the legislative and executive branches, not superior. If an issue appears before the Supreme Court that calls out for a legislative solution, he has indicated it should be the responsibility of Congress to address. The judicial branch should not – as it unfortunately has done so many times – legislate from the bench. "I strongly support the President's choice of Judge Kavanaugh." ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Windsor/Stewardson-Strasburg High School Softball Team, who are the 2018 Illinois High School Association Class 1A champions. "The Goreville Blackcats had a terrific performance, mounting a comeback after facing a six-run deficit to begin the game," Shimkus said. "However, due to their stellar pitching and timely hitting, the WSS Hatchets earned a hard-fought and well deserved victory." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record honoring Ludlow United Methodist Church in Ludlow, Illinois on their 150th Anniversary. "With an extensive background in missionary work and community engagement, Ludlow United Methodist has impacted many lives for over a century and a half," Shimkus said. "This historic church proudly maintains its legacy of service to its congregants and neighbors, and I hope that it continues that legacy." The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement on the status of immigration reform in Congress: “I’ve always said that securing our borders must be the first step in reforming our broken immigration system, and both bills originally slated to be considered by the House this week would have provided the funds necessary to do that. “Both bills likewise would have address the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) issue. DACA recipients, young adults who arrived in our country illegally as children, should not be rewarded for their parents’ crime but they should not be punished for it either. Neither bill would have granted them citizenship or unconditional amnesty, but both would have provided certainty for those who have since followed our laws and become productive, educated members of our society. “While the policy of separating families seeking asylum has been temporarily halted by the president’s executive order, Congress must act to prevent this upsetting and unnecessary situation from occurring again. The immigration debate is far from settled, and I look forward to continuing to work through the legislative process toward a solution that is just and fair.” ###
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the St. Joseph-Ogden High School Girls Track and Field Team, who are the 2018 Illinois High School Association Class 1A champions. "St. Joseph-Ogden won the title with a score of 43, easily outpacing the second place finisher by seven points," Shimkus said. "I wish the team, and their coach, all the best in the future." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
05.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced USDA Rural Development grants to three communities in Hardin, Johnson, and Gallatin Counties totaling $231,500. Federal grants were awarded in the amount of: - $187,300 to Cave-in-Rock toward the completion of a major water project. The project consists of replacing two pumps, completing electrical work, and making other repairs at the lagoon site. When finished, the project will alleviate a health hazard, providing approximately 318 residents with a sewer system that meets Illinois Environmental Protection Agency guidelines. - $25,000 to Shawneetown toward the purchase of a replacement police car. Replacing one of Shawneetown's two police vehicles will save money on increasingly costly repairs, and provide officers with a reliable vehicle to perform their job. - $19,200 to Goreville toward the purchase of a new 4-wheel drive police vehicle. Goreville provides police protection and emergency response to Fern Clyffe State Park, which has over 250,000 visitors each year. The park area is a wooded, high-terrain area that is difficult to access with a regular police car. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities," Shimkus said. "My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
05.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Hoosier Township in Clay County was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $25,000. The funds will be used toward the purchase of a replacement tractor for the township. The new tractor is an essential piece of equipment for the community, providing services including snow plowing, hauling gravel, road work and other township maintenance. “I congratulate Hoosier Township on their successful grant application,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the City of Ramsey was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $25,000. The funds will be used toward the purchase of a backup generator for the village's existing storm siren, as well as for new ADA-compliant door closures and security cameras on the village hall and buildings. “I congratulate Ramsey on their successful grant application,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with Rural Development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the City of Paris was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $8,500. The funds will be used toward the purchase and installation of ten overhead doors and two door openers for the city's maintenance building. The existing doors on the facility, which houses all the street department's equipment, have reached the end of their useful life and have become costly to repair. “I congratulate Paris on their successful grant application,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with Rural Development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
05.15.2018	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Holli Fullerton, a student of Danielle Shultz at Nashville Community High School, was selected as this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner from the Illinois 15th Congressional District. This year's winner, Holli Fullerton of Ashley, Ill., and Congressman Shimkus “Each year’s entries highlight some of the most talented young artists across central and southern Illinois,” said Shimkus. “This year, Holli impressed the judges with her skill as a photographer, capturing the natural beauty of Giant City Park in the Shawnee National Forest. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to her and all the students who participated in this annual competition.” Holli's winning photograph, 'Rooted', will be displayed for the next year in the pedestrian tunnel that connects the U.S. Capitol with the Cannon House Office Building. The exhibit includes the top student artwork from congressional districts across the country and is seen by hundreds of staff and visitors each day. Five honorable mentions from this year’s competition will be displayed in the congressman's Maryville, Harrisburg, Danville and Effingham District Offices. This year’s honorable mentions are: Zebulon Zeigler, Red Hill High School, 'Red Eyes', watercolor and pen Nicole Gray, Lawrenceville High School, 'Central Park', photograph Lydia Higgins, Red Hill Jr./Sr. High School, 'Portrait', pastels Emma Edwards, Oakland High School, 'Walking in the Woods', oil Alexa O'Dell, Metro East Lutheran High School, 'Jooheon', acrylic The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, more than 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. ###
04.30.2018	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) spoke this morning at the Congressional Prayer Breakfast held at the Gateway Convention Center in Collinsville. The congressman also entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the 20th anniversary of the annual event. "We have heard from a wide range of speakers over the years, who tell their stories of the trials of life and faith, but all of them have had the same common belief in Jesus Christ," Shimkus said in the statement, which also thanked founders, organizers, and steering committee members. The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
04.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the 100th anniversary of the Saline County Homemakers Education Association. "Emphasizing the importance of the human and spiritual values of life, the association has sought to promote the development of positive role models and strong community leaders," Shimkus said. "I wish to send my congratulations to Saline County Homemakers Education Association for their continued success and dedication to their mission." The association celebrated their history with the community at the McKinley Baptist Church Education building in Harrisburg on Saturday. The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
04.25.2018	Danville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) wrote to Department of Housing and Urban Development Acting Inspector General Helen Albert this week requesting an investigation into whether any federal laws or regulations were violated with respect to previous business dealings of the Vermilion County Housing Authority. "During a recent meeting involving officials from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, my staff, a local bank, and the chairman of the Vermilion County Board, several potential violations were brought to my attention," Shimkus wrote. "Accordingly, I feel it is my responsibility to request an immediate investigation." A copy of the letter, which includes additional background on the situation, is available below. HUD IG Vermilion.pdf ###
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in response to American, French, and British missile strikes against the Syrian regime: "I remain as apprehensive of U.S. intervention against the Syrian regime as I was when I cautioned President Obama about it in 2013," Shimkus said. "While I would have preferred the president seek legislative support for last night’s strike, I respect and appreciate our French and British allies for joining American forces in making that powerful statement against the use of chemical weapons." ###
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record congratulating New Kingery Printing Company in Effingham on 50 years of operation. "It is an honor for me to acknowledge Michael Kingery, who is a second generation president of New Kingery Printing Company, and all of the employees whose hard work and dedication has made New Kingery Press the success that it is today, and the success it will remain in the future," Shimkus said. "I wish the company all the best." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Highland High School varsity dance team, who are the 2018 Illinois High School Association Competitive Dance Class 1A champions. "It is an honor for me to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of the Highland High School varsity dance team in winning the state championship for a third year in a row," Shimkus said. "I wish the team, and their coach, all the best in the future." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE.
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Beecher City was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $18,700. The funds will be used purchase and install a new early warning storm siren for the Village of Beecher City. The new siren will replace the existing siren, that no longer adequately serves the community. “I congratulate Beecher City on their successful grant application,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
04.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Edwards County was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $21,900. The funds will be used toward the purchase of a new vehicle for the Sheriff's Department. This is a replacement vehicle, and will save the county considerable money on maintenance costs. “I congratulate Edwards County on their successful grant application,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the City of Carmi was awarded an Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant of $512,680. The funding will support the reconstruction and modernization of Industrial Avenue, adding storm sewers and drainage to prevent frequent road flooding. Overall, the $1,025,360 project will create 10 jobs and save 115 current jobs. “I congratulate Carmi on their successful grant application,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the EDA improve economic conditions and strengthen local communities. My office can assist with federal grant program applications.” ###
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the City of Newton was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $25,000. The funds will be used toward the purchase of a new police vehicle for the City of Newton's police department. This is a replacement vehicle, and will save the city considerable money on maintenance costs. “I congratulate Newton on their successful grant application,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved an omnibus spending agreement for fiscal year 2018: "First and foremost, my vote today was to restore our military readiness that was neglected during the previous administration. Our land forces have been reduced by 120,000 soldiers with the loss of 15 brigade combat teams, fewer than half of our Navy's aircraft can even fly, and more military personnel are killed in training accidents than in combat. That's unacceptable and that's why, in addition to giving our troops their largest pay increase in eight years, the bill I supported today includes funding requested by the commander-in-chief to procure, replace, or upgrade 14 ships, more than 130 helicopters, more than 145 fighting vehicles, and more than 230 aircraft. "Here at home, the bill exceeded President Trump's request for Customs and Border Protection, and includes funding to build more than 100 miles of the border wall. Other important provisions include a fix to the 'grain glitch' 199A deduction, nearly $1 billion for mental health programs, $4 billion to combat the opioid crisis (the largest federal investment to date), $81.5 billion to care for our veterans, and more than $21 billion to improve our nations' roads, bridges, railways, waterways and other critical infrastructure." A summary of the spending agreement can be found HERE.
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Okawville High School boys’ basketball team on their 2018 Class 1A Illinois basketball championship. "Okawville won its first state title game 59-48 thanks to a record breaking barrage of three-point shots," Shimkus said. "I would like to congratulate the entire Okawville boys' basketball team on a superb end to a great season." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting entries for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. The contest is open to high school students in the 15th Congressional District. Entries are due by May 4. “This is an annual competition that we are pleased to participate in,” Shimkus said. “The winning artwork from my district will be displayed in Washington, DC, in a tunnel that connects the Cannon House Office Building to the Capitol. Thousands of staff and visitors will see the artwork each day.” Acceptable mediums include: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, photographs, computer-generated art, and mixed media. Artwork must be two-dimensional, no larger than 26 inches by 26 inches by four inches including the frame, cannot weigh more than 15 pounds, and must be original in content. Entry forms and a full list of guidelines are available at shimkus.house.gov/art. The winning entry will be chosen by a panel from the district, and the winner will also be displayed on my website and Facebook Page. The winning artist is then invited to participate in a ceremony in Washington, and Southwest Airlines will fly him or her and a guest out to DC for free. Art teachers and participants may contact Jenny Pruitt, at 618-252-8271 or via email at Jenny.Pruitt@mail.house.gov, for more information. ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Schlarman Academy Girls' Basketball Team on their IHSA Class 1A State Championship. "The Lady Hilltoppers won the state title game 53–31 to cap off a season with a record of 31 wins and just one loss," said Shimkus. "I would like to congratulate the entire team on their victory and on a superb end to a great season." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
02.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the Village of Ludlow will receive $10,000, and the Village of Ridge Farm will receive $30,000, to evaluate updates to their water treatment facilities. The Rural Development funds are made available through the Special Evaluation Assistance for Rural Communities and Households Grant Program (SEARCH) at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. In Ludlow, the water system has not been updated for more than 35 years and some parts of the system are more than 70 years old. In Ridge Farm, the existing water treatment plant has reached the end of its useful life and is deteriorating. “I congratulate Ludlow and Ridge Farm on being awarded funds for these projects,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.” ###
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after President Trump’s first State of the Union Address: “In spite of the crazy environment and partisan bickering, President Trump and the Republican Congress are actually getting things done in Washington. Government is shrinking, the economy is growing, federal taxes are decreasing, and more Americans are confident about the future. The president highlighted those wins among others tonight, but he also challenged Congress to work together on immigration reform, lowering prescription drug prices, rebuilding our infrastructure, and fully funding our military. It was optimistic, and forward-looking.” ###
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after voting for a three-week continuing resolution: “No one wins in a shutdown. Thankfully this one is over. The bill I voted for today was exactly the same as the one I voted for last week with a change in the date. Now the government is open, our military is being paid, and children’s health care is paid for and extended for six years. Let’s get to work on a final spending bill and immigration reform. Our constituents expect nothing less.” ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation today released a statement urging Senators Dick Durbin and Tammy Duckworth to re-open the government by supporting the House-passed funding bill. The Illinois senators supported a filibuster late last night that led to a government shutdown. The following statement was made by U.S. Congressmen John Shimkus (IL-15), Peter Roskam (IL-06), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Mike Bost (IL-12), and Darin LaHood (IL-18): “Last night, Senators Durbin and Duckworth put their party’s leadership over the priorities of Illinois by voting to shut down the government. They voted against our military, against long-term funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and against keeping our government open. Their actions have endangered funding for the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in the middle of a nation-wide flu epidemic. Senator Durbin once said shutting down the government is ‘cowardice,’ but now he is leading the charge with Senator Schumer for this shutdown over a deadline for DACA that is more than a month away. We are asking Senators Durbin and Duckworth to vote on the substance of the bill; we are asking them to vote to reopen the government up immediately. Holding the government hostage over unrelated issues that we have all committed to addressing is no way to govern.” ###
01.17.2018	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced his 19 nominations to the military service academies. The congressman nominates, and then the academies themselves make the final determination whether a nominee receives an appointment to attend that academy. “The academies look at academics, leadership, and physical fitness in order to assure a young person is well-rounded and able to cope with the unique challenges of attending a military school,” Shimkus, himself a graduate of West Point, said. “I am very proud of these young men and women for considering an academy for their college choice and am grateful for the honor of being able to nominate them.” The four military academies that require congressional nominations are the: United States Military Academy (USMA), located in West Point, New York; United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), located in Colorado Springs, Colorado; United States Naval Academy (USNA), located in Annapolis, Maryland; and United States Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), located in Kings Point, New York. High school juniors, college students, or current members of the military who are residents of the 15th District and wish to attend an academy beginning in 2019 can start the dual application process now by registering on the academy’s website. This summer, interested students should complete the online application form for the Congressman’s office available at shimkus.house.gov/services/academy. Mr. Washington (Alex) Loeffler of St. Jacob and Mr. Collin Henderson of Trenton Ms. Abigail Duzan of Tuscola, Mr. James Crane of Arcola, and Mr. Donavon Burton of Arcola Mr. Wesley Jones of Robinson, Ms. Sophia Allen of Oblong, and Ms. Anna Freeland of Mount Carmel Mr. Ethan Macklin of Findlay and Mr. Samuel Kettleson of Mattoon Mr. Hayden Wimberly of Salem, Mr. Pattrick Sherrod of Effingham, Mr. Jarrett Jones of Effingham, and Mr. Zachary Keitel of Effingham The full list of the congressman’s nominees for the class of 2022, including those not pictured above, are: Ms. Sophia Allen of Oblong to USAFA and USNA Ms. Morgan Braden of Strasburg to USAFA Mr. Donavon Burton of Arcola to USMA Mr. Joseph Churm of Mahomet to USAFA and USNA Mr. James Crane of Arcola to USAFA, USMA, USNA, and USMMA Ms. Allison Duncan of Rossville to USMA Ms. Abigail Duzan of Tuscola to USMA Ms. Anna Freeland of Mount Carmel to USNA Mr. Augustus Heal of Effingham to USAFA, USMA, and USNA Mr. Collin Henderson of Trenton to USNA Mr. Jarrett Jones of Effingham to USNA Mr. Wesley Jones of Robinson to USAFA Mr. Zachary Keitel of Effingham to USAFA Mr. Samuel Kettleson of Mattoon to USNA Mr. Washington (Alex) Loeffler of St. Jacob to USAFA, USMA, USNA, and USMMA Mr. Ethan Macklin of Findlay to USAFA Ms. Erin Roberts of Naperville to USMMA* Mr. Patrick Sherrod of Effingham to USMA, USNA, and USMMA Mr. Hayden Wimberly of Salem to USAFA An individual may be nominated to more than one academy. *Note: Nominations to the Merchant Marine Academy can be made for prospective students statewide. ###
01.12.2018	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is once again asking constituents to participate in his annual “Valentines for Heroes” program. The congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution throughout the region to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands of valentines have come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” Shimkus said. “Elementary and middle school classes, church youth groups, homeschoolers, senior citizens and constituents from every part of the district have been overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present.” This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 9 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062 City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 325, Danville, IL 61832 Constituents should return signed valentines without addressing them to a specific person; without signing their last name or including their address; and without sealing them in individual envelopes. All valentines are reviewed for content and appropriateness before distribution, and constituents can call the congressman’s Maryville Office at (618) 288-7190 with questions. ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Following Honeywell’s idling of its Metropolis facility, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) questioned senior Department of Energy (DOE) officials today about the department’s uranium bartering program. VIDEO: Shimkus Questions DOE Regarding the Idling of Honeywell Metropolis Works “The Department of Energy is depressing the uranium market through its uranium bartering program,” Shimkus said after the hearing. “Rather than fully funding the department’s cleanup programs through the annual appropriations process, DOE trades some of the uranium it owns for the cost of certain cleanup projects.” Honeywell cited the oversupplied global uranium market in a statement announcing the facility’s idling. “Last April, Secretary Rick Perry signed a determination that DOE’s uranium transfers would not have ‘an adverse impact on the domestic mining, conversion, or enrichment industry,’” Shimkus said. “But those transfers, through DOE’s bartering program, are a large part of why Honeywell was forced to idle their conversion facility in Metropolis.” In response to Shimkus’s question, Paul Dabbar, DOE’s Undersecretary for Science, said the department has already reduced, and ultimately intends to end, its uranium bartering program by 2021. “For all the previous administration’s talk of green jobs, policies they proposed, and others they continued, consistently failed to recognize both the environmental and economic benefits of clean, reliable nuclear power,” Shimkus added. “The Trump Administration thinks differently, and I will continue to work with them to restore America’s nuclear energy dominance.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Today Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for the tax reform bill supported by President Donald Trump. “I’ve pushed for and promoted a simpler, fairer, flatter tax code since I was first elected, and that’s exactly what I was proud to vote for today,” Shimkus said after the House passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The bill lowers the corporate tax rate to 21 percent – down from 35 percent, which today is the highest in the industrialized world. Multiple studies have shown how such a reduction will lead to more jobs, higher wages, and stronger economic growth. “Fixing the business side of our tax code is a win for workers and job creators alike,” Shimkus said. “But individual taxpayers and families at every income level will also get to keep more of their paychecks under this new tax code.” According to the Internal Revenue Service, 80 percent of 15th District taxpayers currently claim the standard deduction instead of itemizing their tax returns. In addition to lowering rates across the board, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act nearly doubles that standard deduction, which means the first $12,000 earned by individuals, and the first $24,000 earned by joint filers, will be protected from federal income taxes. “There is a lot of misinformation being pushed by opponents of tax reform,” Shimkus added. “Some folks even think they’ll be paying more when the reality is they’ll be paying less. Ultimately, the proof that we got it right for the American people will be in their paychecks next year.” Under the new tax code, for example: A family of four, with two children, earning $62,000 a year would get a tax cut of $1,728. A single mother, with one child, earning $39,000 a year would get a tax cut of $1,244. A retired couple earning $25,000 a year would pay just $100 in federal income taxes (a tax cut of $270). President Trump is expected to sign the bill into law before Christmas. ###
12.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Following lunch at the White House with President Donald Trump today, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) and members of the House-Senate Conference Committee held an open meeting to discuss reconciling the House and Senate versions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “We all have to be accountable to our voters, and I’ve always pushed for and promoted a fairer, flatter, simpler tax code, especially for the individuals,” Shimkus said. “In my district, 80 percent currently file without itemizing. Under the House bill that amount will go to 90 percent. That’s 90 percent of my individual filers who will not itemize, and they’ll be able to use a simple postcard.” Adding to examples Shimkus has previously shared on social media, including a single mom making $30,000 and a family of four making $59,000, the congressman cited two examples from correspondence and conversations with constituents in his opening remarks. “I got a response from one of my constituents who is a self-identified skeptic, responding tomy newsletter,” Shimkus said. “He said, ‘I did the math on my taxes as a retired police officer on a pension and working part time and my wife working part time. Estimating a gross income of $76,000 married filing jointly under current law we would pay $6,502. Under the proposed changes, our tax liability drops to $5,592 saving us $910.’” “I’m from a pretty poor district, but I also have some successful people,” Shimkus added. “I spoke to another constituent who has over $100 million sitting overseas, just waiting to be returned to Illinois to create jobs and put people back to work.” Shimkus also thanked the Senate for their inclusion of provisions to open a portion of the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to energy development, and to sell $600 million worth of oil from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), that allowed him to serve on the conference committee. The SPR provision falls under the jurisdiction of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, on which Shimkus serves. ###
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON– Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) praised the passage of H.R 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, which allows law-abiding citizens with a concealed carry permit in one state to carry in another state without the fear of breaking the law. “The Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act (HR 38) is a common sense solution and I am proud to be a cosponsor of the bill,” Shimkus said. “If you can legally carry in Illinois, you should be allowed to carry in other states.” All 50 states and Washington D.C. currently issue concealed carry permits on some basis and the laws surrounding those permits vary by state. This legislation is a solution to the confusing reciprocity agreements between states that are currently in place. Shimkus added, “This bill does not establish a federal permit or registry or anything like that. It just says that one state’s permit is good in another state…similar to your driver’s license.” This bill does not increase access to firearms and it does not regulate how the states issue concealed carry permits. H.R. 38 allows permits to be recognized from state to state, as long as permit holders follow the local concealed carry laws. Included in the package passed by the House is H.R. 4477, the Fix NICS Act. This bill ensures that federal and state authorities comply with existing law when reporting records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS).
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Unity High School Girls Cross Country Team, who won the 2017 Class 1A IHSA State Championship. “I would like to congratulate the entire Unity Girls Cross Country Team, as well as Head Coach Kara Leaman, on their victory and a superb end to a great season,” Shimkus said. “I wish the team and their coach all the best in the future.” The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE.
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Mahomet-Seymour High School Boys Cross Country Team, who are the 2017 Class 2A IHSA State Champions. “It is an honor for me to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of the Mahomet-Seymour High School Boys Cross Country Team in winning the 2017 state cross country title,” Shimkus said. “I wish the team and their coach all the best in the future.” The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE.
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today for H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The legislation delivers on President Trump’s promise of meaningful relief for low- and middle-income taxpayers, and reduces business taxes so American employers can grow, create jobs, and raise wages. “More than 80 percent of my constituents take the standard deduction instead of itemizing on their tax returns,” Shimkus said. “We’re nearly doubling that standard deduction, which means the first $12,000 earned by individuals, and the first $24,000 earned by married couples, would be protected from federal income taxes under this bill.” Under the House-passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: A married couple with two children earning $82,515 (the median four-person household income for the 15th District of Illinois) would receive a tax cut of $1,811. A single man or woman with no dependents earning $48,000 (just below the median household income for the 15th District of Illinois) would receive a tax cut of $1,301. A single parent of one child earning $30,000 a year would receive a tax refund of more than $1,000 – over $700 more than he or she would have received under our current tax code. “Contrary to misleading media reports, the reality is that low- and middle-income Americans will see the biggest percentage reductions in taxes paid under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,” Shimkus added, citing analysis by the independent, nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. In a Statement of Administration Policy, the White House said it “strongly supports” the legislation and estimated it would grow the economy by three to five percent over the next decade while increasing average household income by at least $4,000 annually. The National Federation of Independent Businesses, American Farm Bureau Federation, Associated Builders and Contractors, and National Association of Manufacturers joined dozens of groups in support the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. ###
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON –Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that EJ Water Cooperative was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $1.2 million and a loan of $2.615 million. The funds will be used to replace approximately 43 miles of PVC water main pipes in parts of Effingham and Shelby Counties. The upgrades will increase water pressure to users in this area and enable the entire system to operate at acceptable pressure levels, directly affecting 4,400 users. “I congratulate EJ Water Cooperative on being awarded funds for this project,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) praised the introduction of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which will bring much needed reforms to the tax code for the first time in more than 30 years. “Today is a big day,” Shimkus said. “My friend, Chairman Kevin Brady (R, Texas-8), and his Ways and Means Committee have put together a simpler, fairer, flatter tax code that will put more money in my constituents’ pockets and support a growing, thriving economy for all Americans.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act maintains the 39.6 percent top rate for high-income Americans, but lowers rates and simplifies tax brackets for low- and middle-income families. By nearly doubling the standard deduction, from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples, the bill will shield twice as much of an individual or family’s annual earnings from federal taxes. “Almost 80 percent of my district takes the standard deduction,” Shimkus said. “Under this new plan, that number will only go up. This means that my constituents will keep more of their hard-earned paychecks, and will be able to easily file their taxes themselves, instead of having to hire a tax professional.” In addition, for thousands of Illinois farmers and small businesses, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act provides relief from the “Death Tax” by immediately doubling the current exemption, and ultimately repealing this misguided penalty within six years. The bill allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment, and protects the ability of small businesses to write off the interest on loans. Lastly, corporate taxes under the bill would fall from 35 percent (the highest rate in the industrialized world) to 20 percent, and special-interest loopholes and incentives that reward companies for sending jobs overseas are eliminated. The Ways and Means Committee has scheduled a markup of the bill for November 6, 2017. More information and the full text of the bill can be found at fairandsimple.gop Real World Examples from the Office of the Speaker: Family of Four Making $59,000 Per Year Steve and Melinda have two children in middle school and are living secure middle-class life—but budgets are tight. With tax reform, they’ll get some much-needed breathing room financially. As a result of lower tax rates, a significantly larger standard deduction, and an enhanced Child Tax Credit and Family Flexibility Credit, Steve and Melinda will see their total tax bill drop from $1,582 to only $400. That’s a tax cut of $1,182 they can use for whatever is important to them, whether it’s paying bills, purchasing a new refrigerator, or putting away savings for the future. Single Mother Making $30,000 Per Year Cindy has a fulfilling job and a promising career path as an assistant manager at a local restaurant. She works hard to support herself and her 11-year-old daughter, but most days Cindy feels like she’s barely getting by much less getting ahead. With the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, relief is in sight. Come Tax Day, Cindy will receive a tax refund of more than $1,000 as a result of the bill’s lower tax rates, larger Child Tax Credit, and Family Flexibility Credit. This is more than $700 larger than the refund she receives today, offering a more meaningful reward for her hard work as she raises her daughter and pursues her own professional aspirations. Firefighter Making $48,000 Per Year Alan is a young firefighter in the community he has called home his entire life. He enjoys the job and has chosen it as his profession just like his father and grandfather did before him. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will allow him to see even greater reward for his hard and selfless work. Under this legislation, Alan will pay a top marginal tax rate of just 12% instead of the 25% top rate he pays today. Additionally, he’ll see nearly double the amount of his paycheck protected from taxes because the bill significantly increases the individual standard deduction from $6,350 today to $12,000. In the end, Alan will see his total tax bill go down from $5,173 currently to just $3,872—a total tax cut of $1,301. ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON –Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the City of Paris was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $11,000. The funds will be used to purchase 5 dive suits, including 4 sets of undergarments and storage bags, for the fire department rescue team and replace 5 garage doors on the fire department building. “I congratulate Paris on being awarded funds for this project,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON –Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Odin Township was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $23,300. The funds will be used to purchase a Road Grader for the Township of Odin. This Road Grader will replace the Townships existing equipment that is in disrepair, and it will be used to plow snow in the winter as well as repair gravel roads for safe passage throughout the Township. The Township contributed $26,700 for a total project cost of $50,000. “I congratulate Odin Township on being awarded funds for this project,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Massac County High School girls golf team for winning the 2017 IHSA Class 1A Girls State Golf Tournament. “I would like to congratulate the entire Massac County Girls Golf Team on this victory, Emma Korte, Millie Lawson, Madie Coakley, Mady Blair, Lauren Coakley, and Madison Cunningham, as well as Head Coach Laurie Glass, on a superb end to a great season,” Shimkus said. “I wish the players, and their coach, all the best in the future.” The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE.
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Charleston High School boys golf team for winning the 2017 IHSA Class 2A Boys State Golf Tournament. “I want to extend my congratulations to Head Coach Randy Hapster and to team members Keegan Gowin, Ben Lanman, Robert Rardin, Preston Smith, Blake Wolfe, and Zach Will,” Shimkus said. “They should all be very proud of their accomplishments this season and I wish them nothing but the best for the future.” The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE.
10.06.2017	Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Edgar County was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $25,000. The funds will be used to purchase two new all-wheel drive police vehicles for the Edgar County Sheriff’s Department to provide public safety to over 18,000 residents in Edgar County. The new vehicles will replace two vehicles that are no longer dependable due to high mileage and costly repairs. “I congratulate Edgar County on being awarded funds for this project,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
10.06.2017	Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the City of Grayville was awarded a USDA Rural Development grant of $19,500. The funds will be used to purchase a new squad car for the police department. The new squad car will replace an existing vehicle, which is one of three, and is necessary to provide better public safety. “I congratulate the City of Grayville on being awarded funds for a new squad car,” Shimkus said. “Grants from the USDA make necessary development and public safety projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
10.04.2017	Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that the Village of Herrick was awarded a USDA Rural Development loan of $1,000,000 and a grant of $540,000. The funds will be used to finance upgrades to the existing water treatment facility and replace aging water mains. The Village's service lines are over 40 years old and very difficult to repair. The treatment plant is well past its useful life and is not the safest environment with chemicals being used and stored in the operational area. The Village has extremely limited funds and is unable to complete the project without assistance. “I congratulate the Village of Herrick on being awarded funds for this project,” Shimkus said. “Loans and grants from the USDA make necessary development projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
10.04.2017	Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record yesterday honoring the 150th Anniversary of St. Paul’s Lutheran Church in Troy, Illinois. “I rise today to acknowledge an important milestone for St. Paul’s,” Shimkus said. “I wish it, and its pastor, the Reverend Michael Schuessler, the very best as they celebrate the church’s 150th anniversary.” The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE.
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON – In the wake of legislation signed by Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner that would allow for the use of taxpayer money to cover an unlimited number of abortions anytime for any reason, members of the Illinois Republican Congressional Delegation voted to advance bipartisan legislation H.R. 36 – the Unborn Pain-Capable Child Protection Act – to restrict abortions 20 weeks or more after conception, the point at which unborn fetuses can feel pain. Representatives Peter Roskam (IL-06), John Shimkus (IL-15), Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Rodney Davis (IL-13), Adam Kinzinger (IL-16), Darin LaHood (IL-18) and Mike Bost (IL-12) released the following statement: “Henry Hyde championed the rights of the unborn through the Hyde Amendment, which expressly prohibits federal funding for abortions. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, from 2005 to 2014, the infant mortality rate in the United States dropped 15 percent. Much of this progress can be attributed to technological advancements in medicine that gives children born prematurely and with various medical issues a fighting chance. H.R. 36 protects children like Micah Pickering who was born at 22 weeks and is a thriving toddler today. Read his story here. “In a reversal of long-standing Illinois policy, Governor Rauner has let down Illinois taxpayers and the unborn by signing H.B. 40. Today, the Illinois delegation stands together in our support of H.R. 36 to protect human life.” ### On Background: The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Act (H.R.36) restricts abortions 20 weeks or more after conception. Specifically, H.R.36 establishes criminal penalties for any person who performs or attempts an abortion on a fetus after the 20-week mark. In addition, this bill provides exceptions to save the life of the mother and in the case of rape or incest. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that H.R 36 would save roughly 10,000 lives each year. The U.S. is one of only seven countries in the world that allows elective abortion past 20 weeks (5 months), at which point scientific evidence suggests that the baby is capable of feeling excruciating pain during an abortion procedure. A poll released in January 2017 found that 74 percent of Americans want abortion restricted to, at most, the first trimester. At the state level, over a dozen states across the country have enacted 20-week bills.
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) recognized Angela McQueen for her heroic actions at Mattoon High School on the floor of the House of Representatives yesterday. Angela saved the lives of Mattoon High School students when she tackled, eventually disarmed and held the assailant on the ground until law enforcement arrived after the student gunman opened fire in the cafeteria. “I honor Angela McQueen’s dedication to her students’ safety and her courageous actions in the face of adversity,” Shimkus said. “If she had not selfless acted, the situation could have been much worse. Angela McQueen is a true hero and deserves nothing less than our highest admiration.” The full statement in the congressional record can be found HERE.
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON –Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Rural Wabash County Water District was awarded a USDA Rural Development loan of $308,000 and a grant of $85,000. The funds will be used to pay for the interconnection from the existing rural water system to South Lawrence Water Corp. This will provide another source of potable water to customers of the Rural Wabash County Water District and sufficient potable water with acceptable pressures to customers. “I congratulate the Rural Wabash County Water District on being awarded funds for this project,” Shimkus said. “Loans and grants from the USDA make necessary development projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON- Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Edgar County Special Service Area Ambulance, Inc. was awarded a USDA Rural Development loan of $1,607,416. Rural Development loan guarantee funds will be used for the ambulance service to refinance their current loan and purchase new equipment. ECSSAA, Inc. will purchase 3 new ambulances and other equipment in order to fulfill their new county contract. This project will help to save 21 jobs and create 10 new jobs. “I congratulate the ECSSAA on being awarded this loan and saving 21 jobs, as well as adding 10 new jobs, in my district,” Shimkus said. “Loans from the USDA make necessary development projects possible for rural communities. My office can assist with rural development grants as well as any other federal grant program application.”
08.11.2017	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) says the U.S. House of Representatives is getting things done. “The news media will spend days on their scandals and controversies, but they often can’t find the time to cover the important successes and compromises in Washington,” Shimkus said. “But when you look at more than 250 bills passed by the House this year, including 42 bills President Trump signed into law, there’s no question Congress and the Administration are making good on our promises to our constituents.” Congressman John Shimkus talks with Congressman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Congressman David McKinley (R-WV) at the Energy and Commerce Committee. Shimkus highlighted a number of House-passed bills as examples of good public policy being made in Washington: The VA Accountability First Act (Signed into law) This landmark, bipartisan legislation makes it easier to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee, including senior executives, for poor performance or misconduct on the job. It also provides better protections for whistleblowers, and bars the VA from using their new removal authority if an employee has an open whistleblower case. Since Inauguration Day more than 500 VA employees have been terminated, and another 200 have been suspended, for misconduct. The Forever G.I. Bill (Passed the House 405-0) Since 1944, the G.I. Bill has provided veterans the opportunity to invest in themselves and their futures through access to education benefits. This major update to the G.I. Bill removes restrictions so eligible veterans can use their education benefits throughout their lives, instead of the current 15-year deadline. Expanding and extending the G.I. Bill will not only help veterans transition from active duty to civilian life, but from one civilian job to another later in life. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (Passed the House 228-195) This legislation provides more tools to fight sanctuary city policies. It allows victims of certain crimes to sue those jurisdictions that refuse to comply with the law, and withholds certain federal grants from jurisdictions that prohibiting their officers from cooperating with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The bill also includes Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving or are arrested for other dangerous crimes are detained during their removal proceedings. Kate’s Law (Passed the House 257-167) Kate’s Law increases both fines and jail time for deported felons who illegally return to the United States. The bill is named after Kate Steinle, who was murdered in San Francisco by an unlawful immigrant who had previously been deported five times and was convicted of multiple felonies. Two dozen House Democrats joined the majority in supporting this bill. The National Defense Authorization Act (Passed the House 344-81) This legislation authorizes $613.8 billion in funding, $28.5 billion above President Trump’s request, to rebuild our military. With this increased funding comes Pentagon reforms and accountability measures to ensure taxpayer dollars are spent responsibly and efficiently. The bill also includes a well-deserved, 2.4% pay raise for our troops – their biggest raise in the past eight years – and blocks the president’s ability to reduce troop pay in the future. Protecting 2nd Amendment Rights (Signed into law) With support from the disability community, National Rifle Association (NRA) and American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), this bipartisan joint resolution protects the 2nd Amendment rights of people on Social Security who receive help managing their benefits. By using the Congressional Review Act, this law also ensure that no substantially similar rule can be proposed by the Social Security Administration in the future. Strengthening Career & Technical Education for the 21st Century Act (Passed House by Voice Vote) Since 1984, the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act has provided federal support to state and local career and technical education, or CTE, programs. H.R. 2353 will improve alignment with in-demand jobs by supporting innovative learning opportunities, building better community partnerships, and encouraging stronger engagement with employers. These programs offer students the knowledge, skills, and hands-on experience necessary to compete for jobs in a broad range of fields, such as health care and technology. FDA User Fee Reauthorization Act (Presented to the president) FDA's review of drug and medical device applications is funded through a combination of annual appropriations from Congress and user fees collected from the pharmaceutical and medical device industry, which helps speed the development and review of medical products. H.R. 2430, the FDA Reauthorization Act would reauthorize FDA’s critical user fee programs to ensure the agency has the resources it needs to make timely evaluations. Moreover, this legislation would streamline FDA process for reviewing and approving new treatments and cures for patients, ultimately delivering new and innovative therapies, drugs, and devices to patients more quickly. Committee Accomplishments Drive Fall Agenda Congressman John Shimkus serves as Chairman, and Congressman Paul Tonko (D-NY) serves as Ranking Minority Member, of the Environment Subcommittee. “When Congress returns in September, bills we’ve been working on in committees will be ready for debate and votes on the House floor,” Shimkus added. “Most of the bills I worked on at the Energy and Commerce Committee this Spring and Summer are fundamentally infrastructure bills. They can be passed on their own, or they could be included in a bigger infrastructure package along with other transportation, energy, and water infrastructure programs.” Shimkus highlighted two examples from his Environment Subcommittee’s portfolio: Nuclear Waste Legislation (Approved 49-4) Bipartisan legislation sponsored by Shimkus would restart work on the Yucca Mountain project, a permanent underground repository in the Nevada desert for spent nuclear fuel from power plants and radioactive waste from nuclear weapons programs. Electricity ratepayers have invested more than $40 billion to study, site, construct and operate the repository. Because Yucca Mountain is not yet operational, spent fuel sits in temporary storage at 121 sites in 39 states, at a cost to taxpayers of $2 million a day from an uncapped, off-budget judgement fund. Illinois currently hosts more spent nuclear fuel, and Illinois ratepayers have contributed more to the advancement of this hundred-billion-dollar energy infrastructure project, than any other state. Drinking Water System Improvement Act (Approved unanimously) Bipartisan legislation championed by Shimkus would authorize $8 billion over 5 years for state administered loans to drinking water system operators, and maintains requirements that American-made iron and steel are to be used in the projects funded by taxpayers. Every day in the U.S., 42 billion gallons of treated drinking water are delivered to more than 299 million people by one million miles of pipes. While maintaining this water infrastructure is primarily the responsibility of state and local governments, the federal government provides invaluable assistance to help water systems finance capital improvements and comply with safety and environmental standards. ###
08.10.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing Illinois Supreme Court Justice Rita Garman for her 16 years of continuing service on the Illinois Supreme Court as well as Vermilion County renaming the county courthouse in her honor. “I have come to know Justice Garman over the last few years and applaud her for many years of dedication to upholding the law and pursuing justice,” Shimkus said. “I want to personally congratulate her for this recognition by Vermilion County.” The Vermilion County Board voted to rename the county courthouse “The Rita. B. Garman Vermilion County Courthouse.” A ceremony dedicating the renamed courthouse was held on August 4, 2017. The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE.
08.07.2017	Maryville, Illinois – Today Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced the Congressional App Challenge. Officially launched by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2015, this nationwide effort allows students to compete against their peers by creating and an application or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices. The Congressional App Challenge is designed to promote innovation and engagement in coding and computer science. “I encourage all students to explore STEM education and enter the challenge” Shimkus said. “This is an excellent opportunity to learn more about coding and computer science through hands-on practice.” The Congressional App Challenge is open to all students in the 15th Congressional District of Illinois. Submissions will be judged on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the 15th Congressional District, chosen by a panel of expert judges, will be featured on CongressionalAppChallenge.us, and the winning app will also be on display in the U.S. Capitol, honoring the winners from across the country. For more information, please visit the official Congressional App Challenge website at CongressionalAppChallenge.us or contact Jenny Pruitt at (618) 252-8271 or jenny.pruitt@mail.house.gov. ###
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced it would withdraw its controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “This is a huge win for farmers and rural communities in Illinois. Congress never intended for EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers to have jurisdiction over ditches, creeks and man-made ponds. I applaud President Trump and Administrator Pruitt for reversing this Obama Administration power grab, and for protecting the rights and the livelihoods of my constituents.” ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) praised today’s final passage of the Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. The Senate passed the bill on June 6, 2017 and it now heads to President Trump, whose advisors have recommended he sign the bill. “For years, problems at the VA have prevented our nation’s veterans from getting the high-quality of care they deserve,” Shimkus said. “The legislation the House passed today is an important step in ensuring the VA is held accountable.” The landmark legislation creates a streamlined process to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee, including senior executives, for poor performance or misconduct on the job. It also provides more protections for whistleblowers and bars the VA from using their new removal authority if an employee has an open whistleblower case. “These necessary and common-sense reforms are long overdue,” added Shimkus. “I applaud my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for working together to create a culture of accountability at the VA, as well as President Trump and Secretary Shulkin for pushing for these critical reforms.” In addition to the bill passed today, the House Appropriations Committee this week unveiled a $4 billion funding increase for the Department of Veterans Affairs for 2018, including $8.4 billion for mental health services, $7.3 billion for homeless veterans’ programs, and $186 million for suicide prevention initiatives. More information on the accountability legislation can be found at veterans.house.gov/accountability ###
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the 125th anniversary of the Germantown Fire Department. “The Germantown Fire Department was chartered on May 2, 1892 and included 18 volunteer firefighters. Currently, the department has 35 members and responds to an average of 110 calls per year,” Shimkus said. “I stand today to salute the Germantown Fire Department on its 125th anniversary and to wish it the very best in the future.” The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE.
05.18.2017	Danville, Illinois– Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced Lauren Sprague from First Baptist Christian School in Danville as the winner of the Congressional Art Competition from the Illinois 15th Congressional District. Lauren Sprague with her winning piece, “Reflection”. “The judges had a difficult time choosing between all the remarkable work submitted by talented, young artists from across my district,” Shimkus said. “Lauren’s photograph rose to the top and I congratulate her on this outstanding achievement.” Lauren’s piece will hang in the pedestrian tunnel that connects the United States Capitol with the Cannon House Office Building for the next year. The exhibit includes the winning artwork from congressional districts across the country and is viewed by hundreds of congressional staff and Capitol visitors every day. Shimkus also announced four runners-up in the competition: Tanner Voss from Carlyle High School, Zebulon Zeigler from Red Hill Jr./Sr. High School, Megan Hodge from St. Anthony High School, and Avery Layne Kasinger from Lawrenceville High School. Their pieces will be displayed in Congressman Shimkus’ district offices in Maryville, Harrisburg, Effingham, and Danville.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing two Carlyle High School Seniors, Tyler Guthrie and Tucker Johnson, who rescued a man from a submerged car on April 22, 2017. “I ask that we all join in honoring these two good Samaritans and use their selfless act as a reminder that we are all here to help one another,” Shimkus said. “I stand today to salute Tyler and Tucker for their contributions to this great society and to wish them the very best in all of their future endeavors.” The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE.
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after the House approved legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA), known more commonly as Obamacare: “For seven years, I’ve fought to repeal all of Obamacare’s mandates, middle class taxes, abortion subsidies, insurance company bailouts, and unaffordable, one-size-fits-all health insurance plans. I also assured my constituents that our replacement would include protections for patients with pre-existing conditions. My vote today does all of the above. “Passage of the American Health Care Act (AHCA) is a win for President Trump, but more importantly it’s a win for the millions of Americans who are forced to buy a product they can’t afford to use. The AHCA will empower states to offer, and patients to choose from, a broader range of affordable insurance plans that better fit each individual and family’s unique needs.” Summaries and text of the American Health Care Act and its amendments can be found HERE. ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday the House of Representatives approved the last ever federal spending bill based upon an Obama-era budget. The bipartisan omnibus appropriations bill will keep the government running through September 30, 2017. “My constituents are fed up with massive, must-pass bills that spend too much of their hard-earned money on too many things the federal government has no business being involved in,” said Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15). “But as President Trump tweeted this week, ‘the reason for the plan negotiated between the Republicans and Democrats is that we need 60 votes in the Senate which are not there!’” Shimkus said the situation would be different this fall. “This is 2017 stuff we had to deal with,” he said. “It’s the backlog of spending bills from the previous administration. With all that finally behind us, Congress can now take up the first budget based upon President Trump’s priorities, and we can get to work on the 12 individual spending bills for the 2018 fiscal year that begins October 1. That open, transparent, and deliberative process is where we get our leverage.” President Trump is expected to sign the omnibus spending bill later this week, officially turning the page on Obama-era spending. A summary of the FY17 Consolidated Omnibus Appropriations Act is available HERE. ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement on today’s Senate confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch: "I congratulate Judge Neil Gorsuch on his confirmation as the next Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Judge Gorsuch will bring the same respect for the rule of law and fidelity to our Constitution as the late Justice Scalia, whose seat on the court he will fill. President Trump made an outstanding choice." ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement on yesterday’s Tomahawk missile strike on Syria’s Shayrat air base: “In 2013 I cautioned President Obama about military intervention in Syria. I also questioned why we are always the ones to respond, and why the international community may come late, but never early or on time, to these situations. “Russia should have enforced the agreement struck in 2013 to remove all chemical weapons from Syria. After another attack on innocent civilians, it is clear this did not happen, and a war crime was committed. “I hope President Trump will seek legislative support for any possible future actions.” ###
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) met with Sarah Burton of Charleston, Illinois today. Burton is a representative of the National Cancer Registrars Association. “Sarah and I had a productive discussion regarding funding for cancer registries in the upcoming budget debate,” Shimkus said. “Cancer registries, both at the state and federal level, provide vital data that fuels research efforts to find a cure for this awful disease.” Shimkus supported the 21st Century Cures Act, signed into law by President Obama last December, to authorize $6.3 billion in funding to speed up the discovery, development and delivery of new treatments and cures for a variety of diseases. That legislation included $1.8 billion specifically to bolster cancer research. ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Okawville High School boys’ basketball team for their second place finish in the Illinois State Basketball Tournament. “This is a remarkable achievement for the Okawville coaches, teammates, and a community as a whole,” Shimkus said. “I congratulate the Okawville Rockets on an impressive season, and I commend them for making the 15th district proud.” The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
04.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced recent staff departures, promotions and hires in his Washington, DC office. “Most of my staff members, both in Washington and in Illinois, have been with me for many years.” Shimkus said. “I’m grateful to have such a loyal and knowledgeable team of policy, press and administrative professionals to help me best represent and serve my constituents.” Leaving Team Shimkus after 13 years is Greta Joynes, who served as the congressman’s Deputy Chief of Staff and Legislative Director. Earlier this month Joynes accepted a position on the government relations team at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck. “As new innovations and technologies have made telecommunications one of the most complex and fastest changing areas of public policy in a generation, Greta has always been on top of the latest issues and developments,” Shimkus said. “Her depth of experience and keen insight into that space is well known in Washington, and I wish her all the best in her new role.” Taking over Joynes’ legislative portfolio for Congressman Shimkus is Jordan Haverly. First hired by Shimkus in 2006, Haverly will continue to serve as Communications Director in addition to advising the congressman on telecommunications, financial services, and tax policy. Other recent staff changes include Chase Clanahan, who was promoted to Legislative Assistant last month. Clanahan will manage a legislative portfolio that includes agriculture, defense, labor, transportation and infrastructure policy. Additionally, Flavio Cardon, who has been with the congressman since 2005, will now handle foreign policy; and Molly Harris, the congressman’s executive assistant, will add education policy to her responsibilities. Meredith Blanford, who last month turned over her Staff Assistant duties to newly hired Ari Kirsh, will take on a new role as Communications Assistant. “These changes represent the biggest staff shuffle ever in my Washington office,” added Shimkus. “Each one of these young men and women have proven themselves capable of taking on greater responsibilities, and I’m excited to watch them grow into their new roles on my team.” Chris Sarley will continue to serve as the congressman’s Policy Director, handling energy, environment and health care policy; and Craig Roberts will continue as Chief of Staff. ###
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) hosted Rev. Robert Dillingham as the Guest Chaplain to lead the opening prayer for the House of Representatives on Wednesday, March 29th. After Rev. Dillingham completed the prayer, Rep. Shimkus spoke on the House recognizing him and thanking him for offering the prayer. “It is my honor to welcome Rev. Dillingham, as well as his wife Ashley who is in the gallery today, and personally thank him for offering this morning’s prayer” Shimkus said. Rev. Dillingham is a pastor in the Illinois Great Rivers Conference of the United Methodist Church where he serves Farina, Illinois. ###
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the Effingham St. Anthony High School boys’ basketball team for winning their first state championship. “This is a remarkable achievement for St. Anthony High School and reflects the hard work, determination, and talent this year’s team possessed,” Shimkus said. “I look forward to watching their future successes in both their academic and athletic pursuits and wish them all the best in these endeavors.” The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after the American Health Care Act was withdrawn from consideration: “I’ve strongly opposed the Affordable Care Act’s mandates, middle-class tax hikes, and expensive one-size-fits-all health insurance plans since day one. My constituents have judged that law, and the more than 60 votes I’ve cast to repeal and replace it, through seven years and four election cycles. They’ve rendered their judgement: Obamacare has failed. “As we all saw this week, moving bills through the legislative process is hard. But that’s a feature, not a flaw, of our constitutional republic. While I’m disappointed in today’s outcome, my commitment to my constituents to follow through on the promise I made to provide relief from Obamacare is as strong as ever.” ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON – In response to concerns regarding the way in which Illinois’ per capita allotment of Medicaid funds would be calculated under the American Health Care Act, Republican Members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation released the following statement: “Today our delegation received assurances from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Director, Seema Verma, that the State of Illinois will have the opportunity to accurately report its 2016 Medicaid payment information to CMS. This information is critical to ensuring our state receives the correct per capita allotment of federal funds. “Illinois has long been disadvantaged by below average Medicaid reimbursements. Moving forward, our delegation is committed to working with the Trump Administration, state leaders, hospitals and providers to better calculate the federal funding our state receives.” A letter from CMS Director Seema Verma assuring the state’s pathway to submit relevant 2016 payment information can be found HERE. ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting entries for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The contest is open to high school students in the 15th Congressional District. Entries are due by April 28. “This is an annual competition that we are pleased to participate in,” Shimkus said. “The winning artwork from my district will be displayed in Washington, DC, in a tunnel that connects the Cannon House Office Building to the Capitol. Hundreds of staff and visitors will see the artwork each day.” Acceptable mediums include: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, photographs, computer-generated art, and mixed media. Artwork must be two-dimensional, no larger than 26 inches by 26 inches by four inches including the frame, cannot weigh more than 15 pounds, and must be original in content. Entry forms and a full list of guidelines are available at shimkus.house.gov/art. The winning entry will be chosen by a panel from the district and the finalists will also be displayed on my website and Facebook page. The winning artist is then invited to participate in a ceremony in Washington, and Southwest Airlines will fly him or her and a guest out to DC for free. Art teachers and participants may contact Jenny Pruitt, at 618-252-8271 or via email at Jenny.Pruitt@mail.house.gov, for more information. ###
03.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) sent a letter to Acting Secretary of Labor Edward Hugler today urging the department to restart the intake of students at the Golconda Job Corps Civilian Conservation Center as soon as possible. “Under new leadership, the Golconda Job Corp Center is already making significant improvements,” the letter says. “[E]nsuring the program is operating at full capacity will be critical to positive, long-term changes at the center.” A copy of the letter, also signed by Senator Dick Durbin (D, Illinois), is available HERE. ###
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Moments after the House concluded legislative business today, Congressman Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) addressed the chamber to recognize Highland EMS paramedic Todd Zobrist. "Yesterday afternoon, Todd was the first to arrive on the scene after receiving a call of a vehicle in Silver Lake with a person possibly inside," Shimkus said. "When he saw the vehicle partially submerged, he swam out in the cold water to search for anyone inside. He found an unresponsive baby boy, rescued him from the vehicle, and immediately began CPR on the roof of the vehicle. Todd was able to revive the 3-month old at the scene and the baby was transported to a St. Louis hospital where he is expected to make a full recovery." "I would like to commend Todd for his heroic and life-saving actions. It's a great tribute to Southern Illinois." Shimkus also ordered a flag to be flown over the U.S. Capitol today in recognition of Mr. Zobrist's heroism. ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today praised the American Health Care Act (AHCA) – House Republicans’ legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA), more commonly known as Obamacare. “This is the relief my constituents have demanded,” said Shimkus, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee that will markup the bill on Wednesday. “The American Health Care Act offers American families more options, lower costs and the flexibility to choose a plan that fits their unique needs, not Washington’s one-size-fits-all mandates.” Gone under the AHCA are the ACA’s middle-class taxes on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, health-insurance premiums, and medical devices. Gone as well are the individual and employer mandate penalties, which forced millions of Americans into plans they don’t want and can’t afford. “While the vast majority of my constituents will be glad to see this costly, broken law go away, some are concerned about losing their current coverage,” Shimkus added. “I want these folks to know that vital patient protections will be preserved under the AHCA.” Specifically, the bill prohibits health insurers from denying coverage, or charging higher premiums, based upon a pre-existing condition; putting annual or lifetime caps on medical care; and charging women more than men. The bill also continues to allow 26 year olds to stay on their parents’ insurance, just as the majority of states allowed prior to the ACA. By transitioning to a “per capita allotment,” the AHCA also empowers state Medicaid programs with the flexibility they need to better serve patients most in need. This type of allotment has been supported not just by Republicans, but also key Democrats including former President Bill Clinton, Vice President Joe Biden, and Senate Democrat Leader Harry Reid. “Illinois hospitals and providers have long struggled with below average Medicaid reimbursements,” Shimkus said. “As we move toward a per capita system, which will restore Medicaid’s focus on the most vulnerable populations, we will also have an opportunity to work together to better calculate the federal funding each state receives.” President Donald Trump and Health and Human Services Secretary, Dr. Tom Price, both praised the legislation, which is available for anyone to read at readthebill.gop ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after making calls to local leaders: “My thoughts and prayers are with all those in my district and across our state who were affected by the storms last night. I also want to extend a huge thank you to all the first responders and emergency personnel who risk their own safety to help and to serve their communities. This afternoon I made calls to local leaders in Wayne and White County, and my staff have spent the day gathering information and assessing the damage. I will continue to follow developments and assist constituents and communities in any way possible.”
02.17.2017	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), the senior Republican in the Illinois congressional delegation, released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Bob Michel: “Bob Michel will always be remembered on Capitol Hill and in ‘the people’s House’ he loved. An American patriot through and through, Bob’s decorated service in WWII helped shape his views as he went on to represent Illinois in Congress for nearly 40 years. He eschewed the hyper partisan rhetoric that has become all too common today, favoring instead a more collegial, bipartisan approach to policy making. Ever the statesman, Bob’s fair and empowering leadership style is a model we would all do well to imitate. “My thoughts and prayers are with Bob’s many friends and family at this difficult time. I will greatly miss him.” ###
02.06.2017	Maryville, Illinois – The United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development agency announced this month that four grants have been awarded in the 15th congressional district. The grants awarded to the City of Flora, Village of Oblong, Village of Odin, and the Southeastern Illinois Counseling Center total $78,800. “This is federal money well spent,” Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) said. “These grants will help provide necessary community upgrades and public safety resources. I encourage local communities who may not have applied for competitive federal grants before to contact my office if they have any questions about the process.” The City of Flora received $21,100 to refurbish two sirens and replace three sirens with two higher performing sirens. The new software also allows the sirens to be used as a public announcement system in the city. The Village of Oblong was awarded $17,300 to purchase a 2016 AWD Utility Police Inceptor vehicle. The Village of Odin received $20,000 to purchase a police vehicle with new lights and radio equipment. The Southeastern Illinois Counseling Center’s grant totals $20,400, which will be used to replace the roof on the center in Olney. ###
01.29.2017	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement regarding President Trump's Executive Order regarding refugees and other foreign nationals: “My record on this issue is clear, and has not changed: I support a vetting process that ensures every refugee, migrant or foreign national is not a security threat prior to his or her admission to the United States. That’s why I supported bipartisan legislation to stop the resettlement of Syrian and Iraqi refugees until our nation’s top security officials can be certain that each individual poses no threat to our homeland. “The reality is our world has grown more dangerous, and our enemies more emboldened in the last eight years. It would be irresponsible to ignore these threats, and to allow our inadequate screening of those entering our country from unstable or hostile regions to continue as is. This temporary halt will give Congress and the new Administration time to evaluate and improve the vetting process, and in the meantime gives Secretary Kelly authority to grant exceptions to the restrictions as needed. One of those exceptions must be to green card holders, who have already undergone extensive screening. “America is an extraordinarily compassionate country, and we should continue to use our unique capabilities to help those in need around the world. So far we have contributed more resources to help Syrian civilians than any other nation, more than $4.5 billion since the start of the crisis. We should continue to provide humanitarian assistance, not only together as a nation, but individually to any of the dozens of non-governmental and faith-based aide organizations doing important work there. Finally, as I’ve said for months, the most immediate way the U.S. can help refugees fleeing Iraq and Syria is to establish and guarantee safe havens within the region where they can receive vital humanitarian assistance.” ###
01.17.2017	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) administered the oath of office to Jeremy Holley of Metropolis at the congressman’s Maryville office on Monday. Holley received a commission as a 2nd Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Reserves Chaplain Candidate Program. Shimkus administers the oath of office to Holley. Congressman Shimkus, who retired from the Army Reserve as a Lt. Colonel, said: “Being asked to do this is an honor. I congratulate Lt. Holley on his commission and join him in prayer for our nation and all those serving at home and abroad.” Shimkus and the Holley Family. ###
01.11.2017	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today announced his 16 nominations to the military service academies. The congressman nominates, and then the academies themselves make the final determination whether a nominee receives an appointment to attend that academy. "The academies look at academics, leadership, and physical fitness in order to assure a young person is well-rounded and able to cope with the unique challenges of attending a military school," Shimkus said. "As a West Point graduate, I am very proud of these young men and women for considering an academy for their college choice and am grateful for the honor of being able to nominate them.” The four military academies that require congressional nominations are: United States Military Academy (USMA), West Point, New York; United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, Colorado; United States Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, Maryland; and United States Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, New York. High school juniors, college students, or current members of the military who are residents of the 15th District and wish to attend an academy beginning in 2018 can request a nomination packet by writing Congressman John Shimkus, 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. Those packets with complete requirements will be sent out in late summer. “Potential nominees complete applications with both my office and online with each individual academy they wish to pursue,” Shimkus added. “I again offer my congratulations to these outstanding students.” The congressman’s nominees for the class of 2021 are: From Clinton County, pictured left to right above: Tori Voyles of Aviston (USAFA), Seth Terwilliger of New Baden (USAFA), Aften Richter of Highland (USAFA, USNA), and Shimkus. From Madison County, pictured left to right below: Ryan D’Antonio of Saint Jacob (USAFA, USNA), Brett Korte of Highland (USAFA), Aften Richter of Highland (USAFA, USMA, USNA), Adam McElligott of Troy (USMA), and Shimkus. From all other counties, pictured left to right above: Charles Goss of Sullivan (USAFA), Grace Zeller of Effingham (USMA), Shimkus, Gabriel Oetting of Charleston (USNA), and Christopher Henson of Flora (USNA). An individual may be nominated to more than one academy. This year there were no applicants for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. The full list of this year's nominees, including those not pictured, is as follows: U.S. Air Force Academy Drew Olivia Brittin, Centralia Ryan Gordon D’Antonio, Saint Jacob Patrik T. Elkins, Mahomet Taylor Lawren Fritz, Arthur Charles William Goss, Sullivan Brett J. Korte, Highland Aften Marie Richter, Highland Seth Ryan Terwilliger, New Baden Tori Kirsten Voyles, Aviston U.S. Military Academy (West Point) Drew Olivia Brittin, Centralia Alena Sue Cowsert, Cypress Tyler Jeffrey Higgins, Highland Timothy James Jurgens, Golconda Adam Christopher McElligott, Troy Aften Marie Richter, Highland Grace Elizabeth Zeller, Effingham U.S. Naval Academy Ryan Gordon D’Antonio, Saint Jacob Patrik T. Elkins, Mahomet Christopher John Henson, Flora Tyler Jeffrey Higgins, Highland Gabriel Oliver Oetting, Charleston Aften Marie Richter, Highland ###
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, was selected to chair the panel’s Environment Subcommittee for another six-year term. The subcommittee oversees the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and will now have jurisdiction over the Clean Air Act as well. “I’m honored and excited to continue working directly on issues affecting central and southern Illinois,” Shimkus said. “The subcommittee will take the lead on reining in the EPA, dismantling the Obama Administration’s anti-coal rules and regulations, and reforming the Renewable Fuels Standard to provide certainty to producers, refiners and consumers.” As chairman of the subcommittee in the 112th, 113th and 114th Congresses, Shimkus successfully lead a bipartisan update of the Toxic Substances Control Act – a chemical safety law affecting virtually every American consumer. The new law, praised by industry and environmental groups alike, takes a thoughtful approach to protecting people across the country from unsafe chemical exposure by making long needed improvements to the way EPA tests and regulates over 85,000 different chemicals and substances. “John’s work to enact the most meaningful update to our chemical safety laws in forty years showcase the tenacity and legislative expertise he will bring to bear as he takes the helm of the Subcommittee on Environment,” said Congressman Greg Walden (R, Oregon-02), who chairs the full Energy and Commerce Committee. “He has been a dedicated member of this committee and the future is bright at the Subcommittee on Environment. I know John will work towards enacting solutions that capitalize on our energy abundance and that deliver affordable, reliable electricity, and jobs to folks around the country.” In addition to chairing the Environment Subcommittee, Shimkus will also serve on the Health Subcommittee, which will work to replace Obamacare, as well as on the Energy Subcommittee and the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. ###
01.04.2017	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is once again asking constituents to participate in his annual “Valentines for Heroes” program. The congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution throughout the region to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands of valentines have come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” Shimkus said. “Elementary and middle school classes, church youth groups, homeschoolers, senior citizens and constituents from every part of the district have been overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present.” This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 4 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062 City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832 Constituents should return signed valentines without addressing them to a specific person; without signing their last name or including their address; and without sealing them in individual envelopes. All valentines are reviewed for content and appropriateness before distribution, and constituents can call the congressman’s Maryville Office at (618) 288-7190 with questions. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) was sworn in today as a Member of the 115th Congress. Left to Right: Congressman John Shimkus, Karen Shimkus, Speaker Paul Ryan (R, Wisconsin-01), Daniel Shimkus. “I’m very excited,” Shimkus said. “If we ever had a chance to roll back job-killing regulations, streamline government and reduce the burden on average Americans, now is the time. I look forward to working together with President-elect Donald Trump and my colleagues on both sides of Capitol Hill to keep the promise to make America great again.” In the 115th Congress, Shimkus will continue to serve as a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over healthcare, energy and telecommunications policy. ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, as the U.S. House of Representatives adjourned for the 114th Congress, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) touted a number of his recent legislative accomplishments. “There is this media-driven myth that nothing good ever gets done on Capitol Hill anymore,” said Shimkus. “But if you look past the partisan bickering and hyped-up controversies that grab headlines, I think most Americans would be surprised at what the 114th Congress actually accomplished.” During the two-year session, Shimkus introduced eight bills that were signed into law. Enacting Chemical Safety Reform “My top legislative achievement this Congress was undoubtedly bringing the Toxic Substances Control Act into the 21st Century,” said Shimkus. “Virtually every manufactured good we come into contact with each day – from carpets to car seats to cleaning solutions – is touched by a law that had not been updated in 40 years. The bipartisan legislation I authored and negotiated will give consumers confidence that the products they buy are safe for their intended use, and will give industry the certainty they need to grow and create jobs.” Shimkus’s chemical safety legislation, which was signed into law last June, had broad support from industry and environmental groups alike – including a number of chemical manufacturers and distributers with ties to southern Illinois. Making Improvements to FDA Reviews “In the coming days, policy ideas from six healthcare bills I authored will also be signed into law as part of the 21st Century Cures legislation,” Shimkus said. “My provisions included in that bill seek to speed up FDA’s review and approval processes for medical devices, as well as allow for more review exemptions for devices needed to treat some of the rarest diseases. Along with another provision aimed at treating drug-resistant infections, these improvements to our healthcare system will help maintain American leadership in medical innovation.” A summary of Shimkus-sponsored provisions included in the Cures bill can be found HERE. Keeping the Promise to Veterans In the 114th Congress, Shimkus also supported more than a half-dozen bills aimed at improving care and benefits for our nation’s veterans. Those that have been signed into law include the Hire More Heroes Act, authored by Congressman Rodney Davis (R, Illinois-13), and the No Veterans Crisis Line Call Should Go Unanswered Act, which Shimkus cosponsored. Constituents and veterans in Vermilion County will also benefit from legislation Shimkus worked to have signed into law this year. That bill, now law, allows for a mutually beneficial land transfer between Danville Area Community College and VA Illiana Health Care System. ###
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a pair of statements into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing Lauren Chappell on her third IHSA Class 1A individual championship title, and the Charleston High School girls’ golf team for their first Class 1A State Championship title. “I would like to congratulate all members of the team, Coach Deb Landsaw, and Athletic Director Jim Wood on their hard earned victory and bringing a first ever girls’ golf state title to their school. I would also like to congratulate senior member Lauren Chappell on her record-setting, third straight individual title,” Shimkus said. “I am very proud of the Charleston High School girl’s golf team and wish them the best for another outstanding season next year.” ###
11.01.2016	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following correction to his comments Monday on KMOX: "I misspoke: Once your vote has been cast – whether during early voting, by mail, or on Election Day – your vote is final and cannot be voided or changed. Any voter who has a question about the election process should contact their county clerk’s office.” ###
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement today after the House and Senate voted to override President Obama’s veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act: “Families who lost loved ones to acts of international terrorism on American soil deserve the opportunity to seek damages from the foreign governments or officials who aided or abetted the terrorists. State sponsors of terrorism – whether they be officially listed as such or not – should not be able to evade justice. “The Constitution sets a high bar for Congress to enact a law over the President’s objection, and I’m pleased we were able to do so here. While the White House says this override is ‘embarrassing,’ I say it’s long overdue.” ###
09.23.2016	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement on the appointment of Keith Repko as the new director of the VA St. Louis Health Care System: “After three and a half years, eight interim directors, and multiple letters and inquiries from the region’s congressional delegation, I’m pleased to learn today that care for veterans served by the VA St. Louis Health Care System will finally be managed by a permanent director. I look forward to working with Mr. Repko in his new capacity to ensure that area veterans are getting the timely and quality health care they have earned.” ###
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) backed two House-passed bills this week to prohibit any future cash payments to Iran and to bring transparency to the Islamic Republic’s corrupt financial dealings. “According to President Obama’s own State Department, Iran is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism,” said Shimkus. “Under no circumstances should the United States send Iran cash that can and will be used to fund acts of terror against civilians, our troops or our allies.” H.R. 5931, which passed the House on Thursday with bipartisan support, would prohibit the United States from making any cash payments to Iran until the President certifies that Iran is not a primary money laundering concern or a state sponsor of terrorism. The bill reiterates that it is the policy of the United States Government not to pay ransom or release prisoners for the purpose of securing the release of United States citizens taken hostage abroad. “When we think of our nation’s efforts to stop terrorism, we often imagine airstrikes in Iraq or special forces in Afghanistan,” continued Shimkus. “Those military campaigns are important, but we must also target the flow of money that funds terrorist organizations and operations.” H.R. 5461, which passed the House on Wednesday with even greater bipartisan support, would require the Treasury Secretary to develop and post online a list estimating the “funds and assets” held by senior Iranian political and military leaders, along with a description of how they acquired the assets and what those assets are used for. This report would be posted on the Treasury Department’s website in English, but also translated into the three main languages used inside Iran, and would be available in any of those forms in a way that is easy to download and share. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) received the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) Guardian of Small Business Award for his pro-jobs, pro-growth votes in the 114th Congress. Juanita Duggan, President and CEO of NFIB, presents Congressman Shimkus with the Guardian of Small Business Award for the 114th Congress. “I regularly visit businesses of all sizes across the 15th District,” said Shimkus. “In every one of the 33 counties I represent I’ve heard stories of rising regulatory costs, our nation’s complicated tax code, and federal rules and mandates that make it difficult to run a small business. I’m thankful to NFIB for recognizing the importance of not only taking those concerns back to Washington, but voting for solutions to the challenges my constituents face.” NFIB's Guardian of Small Business award is given every two years based on key pro-business votes. Key votes in the 114th Congress included those to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline, repeal Obamacare, reduce frivolous lawsuits and protect Americans from tax hikes – including a repeal of the death tax. Members of Congress who supported NFIB's position on at least 70 percent of key votes receive the award. Shimkus voted in support of small businesses 100 percent of the time.
09.19.2016	Harrisburg, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after learning that Pattiki mine outside Carmi will close: “With every mine closure, EPA’s War on Coal inflicts more pain on coal producing areas of our country. Each new anti-coal rule and regulation rolled out by the administration costs more good paying jobs, throws more families into poverty, and devastates communities through bankruptcies and a shrinking local tax base. I’ll continue to stand up for the American workers, families and communities that rely on coal, and fight the radical environmental agenda that threatens their way of life.” ###
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON – After reviewing the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) latest set-top box proposal, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement: “Today’s television market offers consumers more platforms and programming to choose from than at any time in history. It is nonsense to suggest that consumers would be better off allowing the FCC to micromanage the system of privately negotiated licensing agreements under which consumer choice continues to expand. Not only is FCC’s latest set top box proposal a solution in search of a problem, it goes far beyond the Commission’s statutory authority under the Communications Act. Chairman Wheeler needs to realize that government regulations and mandates don’t produce more innovation and competition.” ###
09.08.2016	Harrisburg, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting submissions for this year’s Congressional App Challenge, a coding competition for high school students. The Challenge submission period will run through October 26, 2016. “With demand expected to increase for workers with STEM and coding skills, I’m excited to offer this opportunity to high school students who may be interested in pursuing one of those good paying jobs in the future,” said Shimkus. “To meet the demands of a 21st Century economy, competitions like the Congressional App Challenge help to inspire students to develop these valuable skills.” The competition is open to all students who meet the eligibility requirements, regardless of coding experience. Students of all skill levels are encouraged to participate and learn how to create their own apps. Winners will be selected by panels of judges drawn from the local community. Students’ apps will be featured on a display in the U.S. Capitol building and on the Congressional App Challenge website. *** CLICK HERE TO REGISTER *** *** CLICK HERE TO SUBMIT YOUR APP *** For more information about the Congressional App Challenge, visit congressionalappchallenge.us/ ###
08.30.2016	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, college students, and anyone interested should apply now for 2017 admission. “As the school year begins, many students are thinking about what’s next. As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, I am eager to provide information and assistance with nominations to the military academies,” said Shimkus. To be eligible for a nomination, a candidate must be an American citizen, at least 17 years old and no more than 23 years old on July 1, not married, under no legal obligation to support a child, and a legal resident of the 15th District of Illinois. Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Students may apply for a nomination at shimkus.house.gov/services/academy Completed applications must be received no later than November 1, 2016, or they will not be considered. More information is available by calling the Congressman’s Maryville office at (618) 288-7190. Shimkus nominates to the academies, however, academy officials make the final selection regarding admission. Those accepted into an academy will be notified in early 2017. “I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact us now,” Shimkus added. “There are several steps in this process, and applications must be filed with both my office and online with the individual academies.” ###
08.24.2016	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) issued the following statement after Wednesday’s announcement of the large premium rate increases in 2017 for the Obamacare marketplace exchange in Illinois: “This is another unfortunate example of why I voted against the creation of Obamacare and continue to support repeal and replacement with solutions that use the free market rather than the heavy hand of government. “Earlier this summer, we learned the Land of Lincoln co-op created under Obamacare will shut down and end coverage for thousands of Illinois residents, because it was financially unsustainable – losing over $90 million last year alone. Today we find out the remaining options available for Illinois residents in the exchange will take even more of their income in 2017. An individual plan will go up almost 50%, on average. Small group plans are also averaging double-digit increases. “The President and his fellow Obamacare supporters promised all uninsured Americans this law would make health insurance accessible and affordable. Of course, he also vowed that those already with coverage they liked would be able to keep it. We now know that is simply not the case in Illinois and across the country. Because of increasing premiums and high deductibles, people are paying more for less coverage than they did before, while the newly insured are facing limited, expensive choices on the exchanges. “We can and must do better by repealing Obamacare and rebuilding a foundation on free-market principles driven by competition, where insurers design and offer a variety of plan options for consumers to make choices on what meets their individual and family needs at a price they can afford.” ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today recognized the exceptional pro-life and pro-family efforts of Mrs. Jack Koester of Teutopolis, Illinois: TRANSCRIPT: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge over 40 years of exceptional pro-life and pro-family efforts by Mrs. Jack Koester of Teutopolis, Illinois. In June of 1973 a group of concerned residents came together to found Effingham County Right. Mrs. Koester has served as secretary of that group ever since. As secretary, she issued a monthly newsletter to over 900 people; helped the organization grow through its breakfast and rummage sale fundraisers; hosted an annual day of prayer each June; organized ‘The Life Chain’ on the first Sunday of each October; manned the pro-life booth at the county fair; and publicized the monthly prayer vigil for life at churches throughout the area. Mrs. Koester also co-founded the Family Life Center in Effingham 20 years ago. Having suffered a stroke last fall, she is still recovering and has shifted her focus to encouraging other citizens of the Effingham area to volunteer to carry on her pro-life efforts. Mrs. Koester is the mother of three, grandmother of ten (two of whom are deceased), and great-grandmother of two. One of her granddaughters is currently an intern in my office. I want to personally thank Mrs. Koester for her lasting dedication to the pro-life movement, and wish her the best in her ongoing recovery. ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the 175th Anniversary of Richland County, Illinois. “Olney, the seat of Richland County, has a marvelously rich history of being a center of transportation, medicine, culture, and agriculture for Southeastern Illinois,” Shimkus said. “I look forward to the continued prosperity of the ‘home of the white squirrels’ for many generations to come.” The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to the recent violence across the nation: “I am saddened and outraged by the most recent deaths in our country. I mourn with the families of all who have died. We must bring hope to our struggling cities and communities while protecting and supporting our law enforcement. Today is the time to weep, but tomorrow it’s time to get to work bringing our country back together.” ###
07.06.2016	Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record commemorating Pope County’s Bicentennial. “Pope County has been the home to many notable citizens including: American Civil War General James L. Alcorn, Military Governor of South Korea John R. Hodge, and American Civil War General Green B. Raum,” Shimkus noted. “[It] is also home to the Shawnee National Forest, which covers one third of the county, and provides residents and tourists with lakes, creeks, caves, rock formations, valleys, and wooded hills that are excellent for hiking, camping, fishing, hunting, horseback riding, and to just get away.” The residents of Pope County began celebrating their county's bicentennial on January 10, 2016, and will hold a multitude of festivities throughout the rest of the year. The entry in the Congressional Record can be found HERE. ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement today after the Supreme Court blocked President Obama’s executive actions to shield illegal immigrants from deportation: “This is a major victory for the separation of powers and the rule of law. The Supreme Court’s ruling reaffirms that Congress – not the president – has the sole power to write laws and that individuals who came to our country illegally remain subject to deportation.” In April, Shimkus voted to authorize the House of Representatives to take legal action in the case by filing an amicus brief with the court. The brief set forth why only Congress—not the executive branch—is empowered to write the nation’s immigration laws. ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent congressional record recognizing the Salt Fork Girls Track Team on their state title. The Salt Fork Storm posted 52 points to give the school its first ever Class 1A girls track state title on Saturday, May 21. “I would like to recognize the effort of this amazing team and congratulate them on their historic season as they celebrate their well-deserved title,” said Shimkus. The statement specifically recognizes Jenny Kimbro, Abby Nicholson, and Katie Witte. Kimbro won the long jump, the 100-meter hurdles and the 300-meter hurdles, and finished third in the 200-meter dash, Nicholson took fourth in the shot put and sixth in the discus, while Witte took fifth in the discus. Their efforts were enough to bring the title home to Salt Fork. “I look forward to the continued success of the Salt Fork girls track team,” Shimkus said. “And I extend my best wishes for another outstanding season next year.” The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) net neutrality rules: “This is why we need to rewrite the Communications Act. Instead of applying laws from 1935 to today’s Internet economy, the FCC should instead be taking steps to incentivize the build-out of broadband infrastructure and increase innovation-driven competition in the Internet service market. There’s a better way to protect consumers from blocking and throttling without stifling innovation or delaying build-out. That way requires action by Congress.” ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent congressional record recognizing the Goreville High School Baseball Team on their state title. The Goreville Blackcats defeated Dozer Park 17–7 on June 4 to give the school the 2016 Class 1A baseball state title. Goreville’s 17 runs also set a new Class 1A record. “I would like to recognize the effort of this amazing team and congratulate them on their historic season as they celebrate their well-deserved title,” said Shimkus. The statement specifically recognizes boys athletic director Todd Tripp, head coach Shawn Tripp, and assistant coaches Kenton Parmley and Bryan Webb, as well as the entire championship team. “I look forward to the continued success of the Blackcats,” Shimkus said. “And I extend my best wishes for another outstanding season next year.” The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has been selected to take part in a conference committee to reconcile differences between House and Senate energy legislation. “We’ve seen major changes to the way America produces and uses energy in the last decade,” Shimkus said. “We’re now the world’s leading producer of oil and natural gas, and new technologies and regulations continue to change the way we power our homes and businesses. We need to update federal policies to better reflect these changes, to keep energy costs low and to create more jobs.” Last December, the House passed H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act. In a speech supporting that legislation, Shimkus reminded his colleagues of the human toll the Obama Administration’s anti-fossil fuel policies are inflicting on central and southern Illinois. Last month, the Senate passed their own comprehensive energy bill: S. 2012, the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016. That legislation marked the first time the Senate has approved a major energy bill in almost a decade. This week, the House voted to add additional House-passed energy legislation to the Senate-passed bill and requested a conference committee to resolve the differences. The conference committee, composed of congressmen and senators, will work to produce a single, compromise bill that will then be voted on by each chamber. ###
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after requesting the Congressional Record reflect that his vote on the Maloney Amendment, As Amended by Pitts Amendment was recorded incorrectly on the night of Wednesday, May 25: “My position on this issue has not and will not change. I’ve consistently defended religious liberty and I always will. During a series of 14 votes on the House floor, I accidentally cast a ‘yea’ vote for the Maloney Amendment when I intended to vote ‘nay.’ I regret the mistake.” ###
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a senior member of the Energy & Commerce Committee and author of legislation to preserve existing Joint Sales Agreements, released the following statement in reaction to today’s decision by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals: “Today’s decision is a stern rebuke of an FCC that has often put rural Americans at a disadvantage in their rulemaking. I’m particularly pleased the court struck down FCC’s joint sales agreement order that blatantly ignored the bipartisan intent of Congress.” ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Legislation introduced by Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) to update the way the United States assesses and manages the risks posed by chemicals and the products that contain them passed the House today 403-12. H.R. 2576, the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act, is the culmination of a multi-year, multi-Congress effort to enact the first consequential update of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) in 40 years. The bipartisan legislation is expected to pass the Senate this week and the White House has said President Obama will sign it into law. “There is a widespread acknowledgement and understandable concern that nobody is well served by the current law,” Shimkus said in his remarks opening debate on the bill. “The legislation before us today is a vast improvement over current law and a careful compromise that is good for consumers, good for jobs and good for the environment.” The legislation has broad support from industry and environmental groups alike, including a number of chemical manufacturers and distributers with ties to southern Illinois. “As a chemical distributor and manufacturer with ties to southern Illinois, we are all too aware that the current TSCA law on the books is outdated and broken,” said Patrick Hawkins, CEO of Hawkins, Inc., which has facilities in Centralia. “We’re glad lawmakers worked in bipartisan fashion to pass a bill that will give Hawkins and the broader chemical industry much-needed regulatory certainty while strengthening government oversight and providing consumers with additional confidence in the safety of chemicals. We look forward to President Obama quickly signing this long-overdue reform into law.” Cabot Corporation and LyondellBasell Industries, both of which have facilities in Tuscola, also praised the legislation. “At Cabot, we carefully consider the effect of our products on the health and safety of our customers, employees, the communities where we operate, as well as their impact on the environment,” said Carl Troike, the Facility General Manager for Cabot Corporation in Tuscola. “The modernization of TSCA will further ensure the safety of chemical products, but more importantly improve consumer confidence in the safety and regulation of the chemical industry. With a stronger system in place, we can ensure that the chemical industry is able to continue to innovate while delivering chemical products that are safe for their intended use. I’d like to thank Representative Shimkus for helping to drive this effort which is important to ensuring that the American chemical industry remains innovative and competitive.” “We are very appreciative of the work Congressman Shimkus has done in championing TSCA reform,” said Shawn Cullen, the Plant Manager for LyondellBasell in Tuscola. “This bill positively impacts our facility by improving the effectiveness of U.S. chemical regulations and increasing consumer confidence in the safety of chemicals.” Modernizing TSCA is necessary to improve protections for public health and the environment, to provide the public greater confidence in the safety of U.S. chemicals, and to promote further innovation and economic growth. Specifically, the legislation: Provides the EPA with more direct tools to obtain testing information on chemical substances – an improvement over the lengthy process they now face. Restructures the way existing chemicals are evaluated and regulated – allowing a purely scientific evaluation to guide those decisions. Clarifies the treatment of trade secrets submitted to EPA and ensures the Agency uses only high quality science in their decision making. Updates the collection of fees needed to support EPA's implementation of TSCA, and Organizes the Federal-State regulatory relationship in a way that promotes interstate and global commerce, while recognizing the efforts already taken by several States. “This bill takes a thoughtful approach to protecting people all across the country from unsafe chemical exposure by making long needed improvements to an outdated and ineffective law,” Shimkus added. “It’s imperative we get this bill signed into law as soon as possible.” Additional information on the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act is available HERE. ###
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the 150th anniversary of St. Paul’s Evangelical Lutheran Church in Strasburg, Illinois. “The parishioners of St. Paul’s feel devoted to their parish and to each other, as generations have worshipped together as members of an extended family,” Shimkus said. “St. Paul’s Evangelical Lutheran Church has a long tradition of community involvement and care, and for 150 years it has been serving the spiritual and emotional needs of its members and the community.” The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a former high school teacher, released the following statement in reaction to the Obama Administration’s unprecedented intrusion into local school bathroom policies: “This decree has nothing to do with equality, justice or fairness for students; it’s entirely about furthering a radical left wing agenda of social engineering. President Obama is abusing the power of his office to substitute his preferences for the wisdom and judgement of parents, teachers, principals and local school officials who know their students and communities best. This is the kind of politically correct nonsense that Americans are fed up with, and I will support every viable legislative effort to restore, protect and preserve local control of education. I also call on the state of Illinois and local school districts to help reclaim federalism and reject the national autocracy being thrust upon us.” ###
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to the federal court ruling in favor of the House of Representatives in a lawsuit against the Obama Administration: “Today’s ruling reaffirms what we’ve known all along – that the Congress, not the President, holds the power of the purse. While the decision does not repeal Obamacare, it is nonetheless an important step toward restoring the Constitutional separation of powers that have been tested to their limits by the Obama Administration.” In 2014, Shimkus supported the resolution that authorized the House’s lawsuit, which challenged the Obama Administration’s unilateral delay of the Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate and unauthorized payments to insurance companies. More information on the lawsuit is available HERE. ###
05.04.2016	Effingham, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Megan Hodge, a student of John Gabb who attends St. Anthony High School in Effingham, was selected as this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner from the Illinois 15th Congressional District. Megan Hodge with her winning artwork, Madame Monarch, and Congressman Shimkus “This year’s entries were some of the finest my office has ever received,” said Shimkus. “But among all the amazingly talented students who submitted their work, Megan’s exquisite painting of a Monarch butterfly really stood out to the judges. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to her and all the young artists who participated in this annual contest.” Megan’s winning piece will be displayed for the next year in the pedestrian tunnel that connects the U.S. Capitol with the Cannon House Office Building. The exhibit includes the top student artwork from congressional districts across the country and is seen by hundreds of staff and visitors each day. Shimkus also announced four runners-up in this year’s competition. These honorable mentions, pictured below, will be displayed in the Congressman’s Maryville, Harrisburg, Danville and Effingham District Offices. “Morning Farm” by Joe Perez from Charleston High School Rottweiler by Jamesha Western from Red Hill High School Unkah by Katelyn Miller from Mt. Carmel High School Mt. Carmel Train Bridge by Breanna Tomblinson from Mt. Carmel High School The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. ###
05.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinoi-15), a senior Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement in reaction to Houston, Texas-based Dynegy’s decision to shut down multiple central and southern Illinois coal-fired power plants: “The Democrats’ War on Coal has threatened to devastate two more communities in Illinois with today’s announcement that power plants in Baldwin and Newton will be retired. The heartbreaking trend of power plant shutdowns and mine closures across the country is the not merely the result of market forces, but of a deliberate campaign by the environmental left to keep America’s most abundant source of reliable electricity in the ground. “My thoughts will remain with the workers, families and communities who depend on coal and coal-fired power as I continue to fight to block and repeal the Democrats’ anti-coal policies that are devastating rural America.” ###
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today to require that government and law enforcement officials obtain a warrant before accessing American citizens’ electronic communications. “Under current law, the government can access any emails that are more than six months old without a warrant,” Shimkus explained. “I think most Americans would be surprised by that, so I am pleased to see the House taking action to protect the privacy rights of law-abiding citizens.” Under the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA), law enforcement officials may access emails older than six months with only a subpoena. H.R. 699 would amend the ECPA to require a warrant to obtain those records from third-party service providers. ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent congressional record recognizing the St. Joseph-Ogden Boys Basketball Team. The St. Joseph-Ogden Spartans defeated Rockridge 61-43 on March 11 to give the school its first-ever Class 2A boys’ basketball state title. “After struggling for much of the season, and their season on the brink, the Spartans put together an improbable ten-game winning streak which culminated in a state championship,” said Shimkus. The statement specifically congratulates athletic director Dick Duval, head coach Brian Brooks, assistant coaches Kiel Duval, Mike Bialeschki, and Isaiah Olson, and athletic trainer Casey Hug, who worked hard to help St. Joseph-Ogden achieve this victory. Members of the state championship team include: Ty Brown, Brandon Trimble, Brandon Dable, Drayke Lannert, Kolten Taylor, Garrett Grimsley, Aaron Schluter, Tegan Poole, Jake Pence, Kohlten Johnson, Jordan Brooks, Brody Trimble, Eli Oltean, and Ryan Ferriman. “I look forward to the continued success of the St. Joseph-Ogden team,” Shimkus said. “And I extend my best wishes for another outstanding season next year.” The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
03.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Ratcheting up pressure on the State Department, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported bipartisan House legislation today to recognize the atrocities committed by the Islamic State, also known as ISIL or ISIS, as acts of genocide. “These Islamists are beheading people across the Middle East and North Africa,” said Shimkus. “They’re murdering innocent Christians and other religious minorities for no reason but the victims’ faith. That, in a word, is genocide.” Twenty eight European countries, the United Nations, Iraqi and Kurdish governments, as well as major religious leaders have all acknowledged that genocide is taking place in territory controlled by the Islamic State. Despite the global consensus, however, the U.S. State Department has been reluctant to use the word genocide in connection with the crisis in Syria and Iraq. “The language we use is important,” Shimkus explained. “Beyond the moral and political implications, using the term ‘genocide’ comes with certain legal obligations. The United States is bound by both international treaty and federal law to prevent and punish acts of genocide.” Today’s vote follows the release of a major report detailing the evidence that genocide is indeed taking place in Syria and Iraq. That report, entitled Genocide against Christians in the Mideast, is available HERE. ###
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) spoke Thursday in support of legislation to delay an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rule targeting American brick manufactures until legal challenges to the rule have been resolved. In his unscripted remarks, Shimkus likened the legislation to actions taken by the Supreme Court last month to stop implementation of EPA’s Clean Power Plan until a lawsuit brought by 27 states is decided by the court. The congressman lent his support to the states in that case, State of West Virginia, et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency, by signing an amicus curiae brief to the Supreme Court. “This is really part of a bigger debate,” said Shimkus. “What the EPA likes to do is put out a regulation and play this game. They say: We will impose the regulation, we know it’s not legal, but we’re going to force industry to comply. And then when the courts say it’s not legal, businesses have already gone too far and the jobs have been lost.” Shimkus cited EPA’s 2003 Brick MACT rule as an example. “The EPA promulgated their first Brick MACT rule in 2003,” Shimkus said. “The rule was vacated by the federal court in 2007. Vacated, which means you can’t do it. But the industry already was forced to spend millions and millions of dollars to comply.” Bricks are manufactured in 38 states, including Illinois. According to the Chamber of Commerce, more than 60 of the 70 U.S. brick plants are owned and operated by small, often family-owned companies. Industry estimates put the cost of compliance with the new rule at as much as $100 million per year. The legislation – H.R. 4557, the Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns (BRICK) Act – passed the House 238-163. President Obama has threatened to veto the bill. ###
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), who holds a lifetime A rating from the National Rifle Association, voted today for several legislative measures to support and defend Americans’ 2nd Amendment rights. “Too often the federal government gets involved in our lives in ways it shouldn’t,” Shimkus said. “H.R. 2406 would protect sportsmen’s access to federal lands for hunting, fishing and recreational shooting.” The legislation, called the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act, passed the House 242-161 on Friday. Shimkus also took the pro-2nd Amendment position on two key amendments to the bill. Those amendments were: Rep. Beyer (VA) Amendment #15 – Shimkus voted NO The amendment would prohibit an individual who is prohibited from possessing a firearm by the Gun Control Act from using a public target range. Shimkus voted against the amendment because the acquisition or possession of a firearm by a person subject to 18 U.S.C. 922(g) – under any circumstance or for any purpose – is already a federal felony. Rep. Griffith (VA) Amendment #12 – Shimkus voted YES The amendment reaffirms that law-abiding Americans lawfully transporting un-loaded and inaccessible firearms are not subject to local gun control ordinances. A comprehensive summary of the bill, and all amendments offered to it, can be found HERE. ###
02.26.2016	WASHINGTON – Members of the St. Louis area congressional delegation recently sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert McDonald, expressing concern over the prolonged vacancy of the director position at the St. Louis Veterans Affairs Health Care System (STLVAHCS). The letter, signed by Reps. Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-03), Ann Wagner (MO-02), Rodney Davis (IL-13), John Shimkus (IL-15), and Mike Bost (IL-12), cites a June 2015 communication between Congress and the VA about the vacancy, in which the VA stated they would have the position filled soon. The St. Louis VA has not had a permanent director since 2013 and is currently on its 8th consecutive interim director. The letter also states that the St. Louis VA failed to meet multiple patient care standards in 2015 and 2016. “It is troubling that the VA has been unable to permanently fill one of the most essential roles in the St. Louis Veterans Affairs Health Care System,” said Luetkemeyer, who led the letter. “The VA Office of Inspector General has given the St. Louis VA multiple negative reviews and yet the Veterans Health Administration has been unable to provide it with the permanent leadership needed to make improvements. Our veterans deserve results, and that is unlikely to happen without a director that has a long term interest in the organization.” “Replacing one interim director with another interim director every few months is no way to run any large organization," added Shimkus. "Patient care is suffering due to the lack of stable leadership. I again urge Secretary McDonald to make it a priority to fill this post.” A copy of the letter is available HERE. ###
02.23.2016	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting entries for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The contest is open to high school students in the 15th Congressional District. Entries are due by April 15. “This is an annual competition that we are pleased to participate in,” Shimkus said. “The winning artwork from my district will be displayed in Washington, DC, in a tunnel that connects the Cannon House Office Building to the Capitol. Hundreds of staff and visitors will see the artwork each day.” Acceptable mediums include: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, photographs, computer-generated art, and mixed media. Artwork must be two-dimensional, no larger than 28 inches by 28 inches by four inches including the frame, cannot weigh more than 15 pounds, and must be original in content. Entry forms and a full list of guidelines are available at shimkus.house.gov/art. The winning entry will be chosen by a panel from the district and the finalists will also be displayed on my website and Facebook page. The winning artist is then invited to participate in a ceremony in Washington, and Southwest Airlines will fly him or her and a guest out to DC for free. Art teachers and participants may contact Jenny Pruitt, at (618) 252-8271 or via email at jenny.pruitt@mail.house.gov, for more information. ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – A long awaited land swap between the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Illiana Health Care System and Danville Area Community College (DACC) is one signature away from federal approval. Legislation introduced by Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) and championed by Senator Mark Kirk (R, Illinois) was unanimously approved by Congress this month and sent to the White House for President Obama’s signature. "Our bill cuts through bureaucratic red tape and spares the Danville VA hospital excessive maintenance costs that can now be used to care for Illinois veterans,” said Kirk. “This bill is a huge win for all parties involved,” added Shimkus. “The VA, DACC and the community as a whole will see the benefits of this common-sense land swap.” The VA estimates the bill would save taxpayers nearly $100,000 over 10 years by ceding a parcel of land and a century old Carnegie Library to the college. In exchange for the land and library, the VA will get a gazebo and a straight property line to more efficiently construct a security fence. ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today reacted to President Obama’s plan to close the terrorist detention center at the U.S. Naval Base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba: “President Obama couldn’t be bothered to meet last week’s statutory deadline to send Congress a comprehensive strategy to defeat the Islamic State. Instead, he sent us a plan to let terrorists and sworn enemies of the United States out of jail,” said Shimkus. “That’s not what we need, it’s not what the American people want, and it’s not going to make our country any safer.” Background: The annual National Defense Authorization Act, signed into law by President Obama last October, required the president to submit to Congress a plan to defeat the Islamic State by February 15. That same NDAA also maintained the longstanding prohibition against transferring detainees to the United States as part of any attempt to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay. ###
02.17.2016	Mattoon, Illinois – At stops in Harrisburg, Mt. Vernon, Effingham and Mattoon today, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) recounted efforts in Congress to improve veterans’ access to care and make the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) more accountable. Congressman Shimkus speaks to media outside the Community Based Outpatient Clinic in Mt. Vernon Wednesday. “I always tell folks that I know veterans who swear by the VA and others who swear at the VA,” said Shimkus. “The reality is that no government-run health care system is going to be perfect, but those who served our country deserve the best care we can provide. That’s why today I wanted to highlight some of the things we’ve done recently in Congress to make the VA more accountable, and to expand access to care and job opportunities for our nation’s heroes.” In the past year, the House of Representatives passed legislation to give the Secretary of the VA authority to fire any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct; to require records of reprimand be part of VA employees’ permanent records; and to allow the VA to recoup any bonuses paid to any VA employee. None of those bills passed the Senate, and one faces a veto threat from President Obama. “The persistent problems at the VA won’t be solved by throwing more money at them,” said Shimkus. “In fact, while spending has been cut in many areas of the federal government, Congress has consistently increased funding to provide for the care of our veterans. The problem is a lack of accountability and an administration that is unwilling to put the care of our veterans ahead of the jobs of bureaucrats.” One area of agreement, however, is on efforts to improve veterans’ access to care. The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act created the VA Choice program that allows veterans to receive care outside the VA system when the VA wait is too long or if they live too far away. “The Choice program was popular and successful,” said Shimkus. “So we expanded the number of non-VA providers in the program, removed requirements that a veteran had to be in the VA system before August 2014 to participate, and allowed veterans who live within 40 miles of a VA clinic that doesn’t have a full time doctor to participate as well.” Outside the VA, other legislation has sought to expand opportunities for veterans looking for jobs and housing. “One of the first bills passed by the 114th Congress was my friend Rodney Davis’ Hire More Heroes Act,” said Shimkus. “That bill, now a law, expands veteran employment opportunities by allowing small businesses to hire veterans with VA health care or TRICARE, without counting them against the cap that would require their employers to provide redundant insurance under Obamacare.” Also signed into law last year was legislation to require the Department of Homeland Security to recruit service members leaving the military to be Customs and Border Protection Officers, as well as legislation to address the veteran suicide epidemic through expanding mental health services to returning veterans. Legislation to reauthorize programs that help homeless veterans find jobs, housing, and referrals to mental health and substance abuse counseling was passed by the House but not considered in the Senate. Valentines for Heroes Congressman Shimkus also took today’s opportunity to thank all those who participated in his annual Valentines for Heroes program. Congressman Shimkus distributes valentines at the St. Louis VA Medical Center. “The valentines come from all over the region – even Missouri and Indiana,” said Shimkus. “They come mostly from school and church groups, but some individuals help out as well. This year my offices took in an around 6,000 valentines and the number grows every year.” Valentines were distributed at the VA Medical Centers in Marion, Danville, St. Louis, and Hines; the VA clinics in Harrisburg, Effingham, Mattoon, Mt. Vernon, Bourbonnais, Belleville, and Carbondale; the state veterans’ homes in Anna and Quincy; and Scott Air Force Base.
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON – Legislation introduced by Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) was approved by the House of Representatives today. The bill, H.R. 3262, would allow for a mutually beneficial land swap between the Department of Veterans Affairs Illiana Health Care System and Danville Area Community College. A transcript of the congressman’s speech, as prepared for delivery in support of the legislation, is below: "Mister Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, H.R. 3262. This simple, common-sense bill benefits both the VA and my constituents in Danville, Illinois. "Danville, Illinois is a small town that has been home to some big names. Dick Van Dyke called Danville home in his childhood. Speaker Joe Cannon, a name we all know in Congress, was from Danville. Today, Danville is home to the VA Illiana Health Care System and Danville Area Community College (DACC). "DACC’s president, Dr. Alice Jacobs, is an exceptional leader who has dedicated 45 years to higher education, including the last 16 years leading DACC. She has recently announced her retirement in the coming year and I thank her for her dedicated service to students and the community of Danville and wish her the best in the future. "The VA and DACC are an excellent example of how two institutions can work in cooperation to serve our veterans. The location of the VA hospital adjacent to the community college campus allows our veterans returning home to seek their medical care and help with benefits, while the college provides the opportunity for educational and training experiences that can help them transition into civilian life. "However, when the property lines were drawn between these two fine institutions, it wasn’t in a straight line. Today that has created a challenge as the VA explores the option of building a security fence along its boundary. Building that fence along the existing property lines will be more expensive. My bill, H.R. 3262, solves this problem by swapping two small parcels of land that both the VA and DACC have agreed to, creating a straight fence line. "Swapping these parcels is beneficial for the local community, as well. In exchange for the land it gives up, DACC will receive a parcel of land with a historic, century-old Carnegie Library. This building has become so deteriorated and expensive to maintain that the VA has stopped using it. Now the building sits vacant while the VA still pays for basic maintenance and utilities. In its testimony to the House Veterans Affairs Committee’s Health Subcommittee, the VA stated that disposing of this building would save an estimated $98,000 over the next 10 years. "Danville and DACC see great potential for the building. Through the generosity of a private donor, DACC plans to transform the old library into a cultural center, providing a local treasure. Swapping these parcels of land is a win for the VA, saving money on the construction of the fence and maintenance of an unused building, and a win for Danville, providing the community with a historically significant location to host a valuable cultural attraction. "H.R. 3262 is a simple, win-win bill for all parties involved. "Mister Speaker, I would like to thank Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Brown for their support moving this bill forward, along with the VA Committee staff for their work in getting the bill to the floor. I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 3262, and I yield back the balance of my time." ###
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today voted to end Operation Choke Point, an Obama Administration scheme to coerce banks and other financial institutions into cutting off relationships with legal businesses the administration dislikes. “While a wide range of industries have been affected, law abiding gun and ammunition sellers have been top targets of the Obama Justice Department through Operation Choke Point,” said Shimkus. “The Obama Administration cannot be allowed to bully banks into freezing legitimate, legal businesses out of the banking system for no other reason than the president’s political preferences.” H.R. 766, which passed the House on Thursday, would prevent federal banking agencies from abusing executive power to block legitimate businesses from making deposits to their financial institutions. The bill requires a federal banking agency to provide written justification of any request to terminate or restrict a customer account, unless it was based upon a belief that those customers pose a threat to national security. More information on H.R. 766 is available HERE. ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted Tuesday to override President Obama’s veto of legislation to repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood. The vote, which required a two-thirds majority to pass, failed 240-186. “With today’s override vote, Congress succeeded in taking the fight against Obamacare all the way to its Constitutional end,” said Shimkus. “While the outcome means this misguided law will survive the final year of the Obama Administration, it also shows a way around the Senate filibuster and a clear path to repeal under a new president.” The legislation also would have ended all taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood. “I’ve voted at every opportunity to fully defund Planned Parenthood,” said Shimkus. “The reality is that, like repealing Obamacare, tightening those purse strings will take nothing less than a bill signed by the president. That’s a goal I support because every life has dignity, and every life is precious, from conception to natural death.” ###
02.02.2016	Effingham, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is announcing his 17 nominations to the military service academies. The congressman nominates, and then the academies themselves make the final determination whether a nominee receives an appointment to attend that academy. "The academies look at academics, leadership, and physical fitness in order to assure a young person is well-rounded and able to cope with the uniqueness of attending a military school," Shimkus said. "As a West Point graduate, I am very proud of these young men and women for considering an academy for their college choice and am grateful for the honor of being able to nominate them.” The four military academies that require congressional nominations are: United States Military Academy (USMA), West Point, New York; United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado Springs, Colorado; United States Naval Academy (USNA), Annapolis, Maryland; and United States Merchant Marine Academy (USMMA), Kings Point, New York. High school juniors, college students, or current members of the military who are residents of the 15th District and wish to attend an academy beginning in 2017 can request a nomination packet by writing Congressman John Shimkus, 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. Those packets with complete requirements will be sent out in late summer. “Potential nominees complete applications with both my office and online with each individual academy they wish to pursue,” Shimkus added. “I again offer my congratulations to these outstanding students.” ### Shimkus' Academy Nominees for the Class of 2020 From Clinton County, left to right: Elliott Palm of Carlyle (USAFA), Samuel Krebs of Breese (USAFA & USMA), and Bailey Hilmes of Carlyle (USAFA, USMA & USNA) From Douglas County: Nicholas Bates of Tuscola (USAFA). Not pictured: Taylor Fritz of Arthur (USAFA, USMA & USNA) From Effingham County: Ashton Haythorne of Effingham (USAFA). Not pictured: Matthew Funneman of Teutopolis (USNA) From Ford County: Nicholas Meunier of Melvin (USMA) From Lawrence County: Hannah Burkhardt of Bridgeport (USNA) From Madison County: Eric Finch of Collinsville (USMA) From Saline County: Christopher Carrigan of Carrier Mills (USNA) From Vermilion County: Brady Taylor of Danville (USAFA & USMA). Not pictured: Joshua Cassem of Danville (USAFA & USNA) Additional nominees not pictured From St. Clair County: Joseph Heard of Belleville (USMMA) From Richland County: Tanner Hout of Olney (USMA) From Moultrie County: Ross Metzger of Gays (USAFA) From Washington County: Andrew Hudspeth of Nashville (USNA)
01.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a senior Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement on the Obama Administration’s announcement that it will halt new coal leases on federal lands: “The War on Coal may be fought in Washington, but its victims are in my district and small towns across America. With each new attack by the Obama Administration, more workers lose good paying jobs, more families are thrown into poverty, and more communities are devastated by bankruptcies and a shrinking local tax base. “Our nation’s abundant natural resources belong to the people. It’s not only economically foolish to keep those resources locked away, it’s morally wrong to deprive Americans of the benefits they hold.” ###
01.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted this week to block two of the Obama Administration’s most controversial water rules. On Tuesday, the House passed H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act. This legislation would require the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a comprehensive study of existing stream protection rules before additional regulations can be proposed by the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement. “The Office of Surface Mining’s secretive and overreaching Stream Protection Rule threatens to nearly double the number of good paying coal jobs lost since 2011,” said Shimkus. “This rule is one of President Obama’s most aggressive assaults yet in his unrelenting War on Coal – a seven year campaign that has devastated communities in rural America.” Hearings held by the House Natural Resources Committee found that the science on which the administration’s Stream Protection Rule is based has often not been made available to the public and interested stakeholders, including states with the most expertise in regulating mining. On Wednesday, the House passed S.J.Res. 22, a joint resolution to disapprove the administration’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. “I’ve voted numerous times to block this EPA overreach,” said Shimkus. “Congress never intended for EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers to have jurisdiction over ditches, creeks and man-made ponds. I’ve heard frequently from farmers and landowners around my district who say this outrageous power grab would put needless burdens on their families, and threaten their right to make decisions about their property.” As written, the administration’s WOTUS rule would redefine the regulatory status of marginal waters such as streams that flow part of the year, only after rainfall events, and isolated water features. Under the final rule, all tributaries to the nation’s traditional navigable waters would be under the regulatory jurisdiction of the EPA, regardless of how small or far upstream they are from navigable water. ###
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) highlighted a number of conservative policies enacted over the last several months in advance of President Obama’s last State of the Union Address to Congress Tuesday evening. Those victories include the only bill to repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood ever to reach the President’s desk, EPA spending cuts, education reform and a long term highway bill. “The reconciliation bill that we passed and sent to the President was the first time we were able to really get through the Senate process and do two things: eliminate major portions of Obamacare, and of course attack funding for Planned Parenthood, and get that bill on the President’s desk,” Shimkus said. “That was a major victory.” Last weekend President Obama vetoed the reconciliation bill. The House will vote later this month to override that veto. Shimkus, who voted against the FY16 budget deal negotiated by President Obama and former Speaker John Boehner because it raised the debt limit and busted previously agreed to spending caps, acknowledged that while federal spending has decreased since Republicans took the House in 2010, much more work remains to be done. “We continue to fight the budget fight,” Shimkus said. “We’ve reduced the budget deficit faster than any time since WWII. It’s not enough. We still have deficit spending; we still have a national debt. And we’re looking forward to the leadership of Speaker Paul Ryan to help us address deficits and debt and really start that big conversation on long term mandatory spending.” Mandatory spending – that is, spending not subject to the annual appropriations process – is the biggest driver of our nearly $19 trillion national debt. In 2014, two-thirds of federal spending was mandatory spending on Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and interest on the debt. Shimkus has championed mandatory spending reform since coming to Congress and, while disappointed in the recent budget numbers, noted one important discretionary spending victory. “On the areas like the EPA,” Shimkus said: “we were able to reduce to levels at the beginning of the President’s presidency and staffing down to 1989 levels.” Shimkus also highlighted the education and infrastructure bills signed into law late last year. “We also passed an education bill,” Shimkus said. “That education bill repealed provisions on No Child Left Behind and made sure Common Core standards are not enforced on states.” “Another big success was a long term highway bill that helps infrastructure planning and funding over five years,” Shimkus said. “That brings economic growth to our communities and rebuilds our roads and bridges.” Congressman Shimkus will give his reaction to the State of the Union Address live on his Facebook Page after the speech. ###
01.07.2016	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is again asking constituents to participate in his annual “Valentines for Heroes” program. The congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution throughout the region to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands of valentines have come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” Shimkus said. “Constituents have been overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present. “School classes, church youth groups, homeschoolers, and individuals have all helped brighten a soldier or veteran’s day,” he added. This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 5 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062 City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832 Constituents should return signed valentines without addressing them to a specific person; without signing their last name or including their address; and without sealing them in individual envelopes. All valentines are reviewed for content and appropriateness before distribution, and constituents can call the congressman’s Maryville Office at (618) 288-7190 with questions. ###
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON – Rallying his colleagues before Wednesday afternoon’s vote on the budget reconciliation bill, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) said it’s about time Congress followed through on promises made to the American people. “Many of my constituents have told me, ‘We gave you the House majority in 2010, what have you done? We gave you the Senate majority in 2014, what have you done? Why can’t you get something to the President’s desk,’” Shimkus said. “Well today we do. We send a bill to the President’s desk that repeals Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood. And it’s about time.” Unlike more than 60 bills or amendments Shimkus has supported to repeal all or part of Obamacare, and numerous votes the congressman has cast to defund Planned Parenthood, Senate Democrats could not use the filibuster to block the budget reconciliation bill before the House on Wednesday. “Obamacare distorts the market, raises prices, and deprives our citizens of choice,” said Shimkus. “The bill today will eliminate the individual mandate and the employer mandate. Government forcing our citizens to buy a product they do not want is un-American and costly. I say good riddance!” In addition to dismantling Obamacare, the budget reconciliation bill does what the National Right to Life says last year’s omnibus spending bill could not do: defund Planned Parenthood. “We were all aghast over the recordings released highlighting Planned Parenthood selling of baby parts. As a Member who believes that individual, distinct life begins at conception, Planned Parenthood’s lack of remorse or even concern highlights their dark business,” Shimkus said. “Today we send a bill to the President’s desk to defund Planned Parenthood.” The House is expected to pass the reconciliation bill on Wednesday afternoon. Since the bill already passed the Senate on December 3, it will be sent to the White House without delay. ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a lifelong supporter of the 2nd Amendment with a lifetime “A” rating from the National Rifle Association (NRA), released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s proposed executive actions on guns: “If the executive actions President Obama is proposing are constitutional and will save lives, why has he waited until the final year of his presidency to act? It’s simple: Because they are not legal and they will not work. “Today’s news isn’t about winning the war against terrorism, improving public safety or getting serious about the mental health crisis in America. It’s a purely political announcement designed to punish and scare the millions of law abiding gun owners the Obama Administration despises. These actions will not hold up in court. They will not stop gun violence. And they will be met with a legislative response because we, conservative Republicans in Congress, do not take kindly to people touching the Bill of Rights.” ###
12.30.2015	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today joined local leaders in Dieterich, Marshall, Lawrenceville and Sandoval to announce the availability of technical assistance for rural water systems. The new law reauthorizes $15 million each year through 2020 for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) technical assistance program for small, public water systems, and requires EPA to target the training and technical assistance funds appropriated by Congress to programs most beneficial to small and rural communities. “A major source of financial stress for small and rural drinking water supply systems is compliance with EPA regulations,” Shimkus explained. “These communities need access to technical professionals to help find the most cost-effective way to identify repair and replacement options for their systems, and to comply with EPA standards.” Shimkus was joined at each location by Illinois Rural Water Association (IRWA) Executive Director Frank Dunmire. The IRWA represents over 800 small communities, water districts and co-ops throughout the state. “Almost all of the more than 3,500 community water supplies in Illinois are dependent on on-site technical assistance and training while they struggle with complying with the ever-growing list of EPA regulations,” said Dunmire. “It is through this training and on-site assistance that many communities avoid violations and/or hefty fines.” As Chairman of the Environment and Economy Subcommittee, Shimkus led passage of the rural water bill in November. “Illinois, and the country as a whole, are fortunate to have John chairing a committee that can ensure that small community water supplies have the needed tools to provide safe drinking water,” Dunmire added. ### PHOTOS: Left to Right: Congressman John Shimkus, Illinois Rural Water Association Exective Director Frank Dunmire, and EJ Water Coop CEO Bill Teichmiller. Richard Rand (left) shows Congressman Shimkus around the Lawrenceville water plant Left to Right: Richard Rand, Frank Dunmire, Aaron Tipsword, Congressman John Shimkus, Lawrenceville Major Don Wagner, Jep Blacketer Left to Right: Illinois Rural Water Association Executive Director Frank Dunmire; Congressman John Shimkus; Clark Edgar Rural Water Manager Kevin Conover Left to Right: Gateway Regional Water Company Board President Keith Ritter, Congressman John Shimkus, Illinois Rural Water Association Executive Director Frank Dunmire
12.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) signed two letters to President Obama last week in response to the Commander-in-Chief’s silence on Iranian ballistic missile tests and purchase of state-of-the-art air defense systems from Russia in violation of international agreements. “Turning a blind eye to the Ayatollah’s new missiles won’t make them go away,” said Shimkus. “The President’s bad deal with Iran has emboldened and enriched the world’s biggest state sponsor of terrorism. Now his inaction, in the face of obvious violations of U.N. resolutions and his administration’s own deal, has allowed Iran to extend its offensive reach and enhance its air defenses – complicating any future military response to the Islamic Republic’s nuclear ambitions.” The first letter, authored by Rep. Ted Yoho (R, Florida-3) and signed by 106 Members of Congress, states that Iran twice “has illegally tested a ballistic missile since the nuclear agreement… was signed” and urges an immediate delay in the implementation of the deal and relief of sanctions. The second letter, authored by Rep. Thomas MacArthur (R, New Jersey-3) and signed by 14 Members of Congress, states that Iran’s sophisticated, Russian-built S-300 surface-to-air missiles can “be deployed as an offensive weapon and therefore is in violation of the” President’s nuclear deal. The letter urges the administration to immediately void the deal and reinstate all sanctions against Iran. “It’s embarrassing,” Shimkus concluded. “The ink on the bad nuclear deal is barely dry and the Iranians have already violated its terms. President Obama was foolish to trust them to keep their word.” ###
12.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent congressional record recognizing Arcola Jr. Sr. High School as the 2015 IHSA Class 1A High School State Champions. On November 27, 2015, Arcola defeated Stark County by 35-17 to win the Class 1A State Championship – their first championship title in 27 years. “I would like to recognize the effort of this amazing team and congratulate them on their historic season as they celebrate their well-deserved title,” said Shimkus. The statement specifically congratulates the Strader brothers, Clayton and Connor, as well as their cousin Chase, for contributing to six touchdowns and several tackles. It also acknowledges the work of Tommy Eddleman, Jim Fishel, Aldo Garcia, Chad Hopkins, Jarod Kiger, and John Lidy who make up the coaching staff which supported Athletic Director and Head Coach, Zach Zehr, to provide great leadership for the Purple Riders. “I look forward to the continued success of the Arcola Jr. Sr. High School,” Shimkus said. “And I extend my best wishes for another outstanding season next year.” The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted this week to extend expiring tax cuts and fund the federal government through FY2016. The tax extenders bill passed 318-109 on Thursday and the omnibus appropriations bill passed 316-113 on Friday. “Nobody thinks these massive, last-minute agreements are perfect or that they’re the way Congress should go about the people’s business. Both bills include provisions I support and some I oppose.” said Shimkus. “But to paraphrase President Reagan: getting 80 percent of a deal is a pretty good deal. We can’t allow the perfect to be the enemy of the good – and there is more good than bad to be found for the people of our state in these bills.” Illinois farmers scored major wins in the two measures. “The tax bill permanently extends the Section 179 expensing option for small businesses, allowing farmers to immediately deduct investments in new equipment or property on their tax returns,” said Shimkus. “Biodiesel production in Danville also stands to benefit from the extension of the biodiesel tax credit through 2016, and American consumers escape $1 billion in Canadian and Mexican retaliatory tariffs with the repeal of country of origin labeling (COOL) requirements.” On Wednesday, Shimkus addressed the House in support of another provision that benefits Illinois’ marginal oil producers. Illinois is the 15th largest oil producing state. “Ending the outdated ban on American crude oil exports deals a major blow to President Obama’s relentless attack on fossil fuels. We can’t allow our energy policy to remain stuck in 1970s scarcity thinking at a time when the United States has emerged as the world’s top energy producer,” said Shimkus. “Lifting the Carter-era ban on crude oil exports will create jobs here at home and strengthen our allies abroad.” The two measures also advanced a number of conservative policy priorities. “The omnibus holds the EPA to pre-Obama funding levels and its lowest staffing level since 1989,” Shimkus said. “It contains no new funding for Obamacare and freezes most IRS operations.” A staunch defender of the right to life, Shimkus also specifically highlighted the numerous anti-abortion provisions included in the omnibus. “This bill prohibits taxpayer funded abortions, bans gene editing of human embryos, and maintains the Hyde Amendment,” Shimkus said. “It also requires Obamacare insurance plans to inform policy holders if their plan covers abortions – something I’ve been using my position on the Energy and Commerce Committee to fight the Obama Administration on since 2013 – and prevents discrimination against healthcare providers who refuse to provide, pay for, or refer abortions.” Finally, with Americans’ fear of terrorism at its highest since the weeks following 9/11, the spending bill takes crucial steps to protect the homeland. “My top responsibility as a Member of Congress is to keep our country safe. A vote against the omnibus would be a vote to deny our fighting men and women the resources they need to wage the Global War on Terror, and to allow terrorists to enter the U.S. without even applying for a visa,” said Shimkus. “In this dangerous world that’s simply irresponsible.” The omnibus includes the House-passed bill to strengthen the Visa Waiver Program and prevents terrorists detained at Guantanamo Bay from being transferred to the United States. ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the 180th Anniversary of Centenary United Methodist Church in Effingham. "Centenary United Methodist Church has a long tradition of community involvement and care, and for 180 years it has been serving the spiritual and emotional needs of its members and the community with many different activities and programs,” said Shimkus. “I look forward to the continued success of Centenary United Methodist Church, and I extend my best wishes to it on its 180th anniversary." The full entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered the following statement into the permanent congressional record in memory of Ivadale Foster. Mrs. Foster passed away on November 14 in her hometown of Danville, Illinois, at the age of 93. “Mrs. Foster was a pillar of the community, who dedicated her life to helping others. Her list of accomplishments and memberships on various community organizations is extraordinary. In 1964 Mrs. Foster was recognized as one of Danville’s outstanding women and was named volunteer of the year in 1993. She was the first and only African American woman to serve on the Vermilion County Board, a position she held for three decades. She was active in the Laura Lee Fellowship House, American Legion Post 736 Auxiliary, and the Danville Public Schools, to name just a few of the organizations on which she served. “Her list of accomplishments could fill pages, and because of that record of service, the City of Danville and Vermilion County has lost a leader, a trailblazer, and an icon. Ivadale Foster embodied what is good and just in America, and her legacy of community service will touch future generations. “My sincere condolences go out to the family of Mrs. Foster, as we all mourn her passing.” The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today reminded constituents in the Illinois 15th Congressional District of his regular availability to meet with them in their local communities. “Since I came to Congress, I’ve continued to hold Open Office Hours and my staff have held Traveling Help Desks throughout my district,” said Shimkus. “This is in addition to the thousands of constituent meetings I schedule in my DC and district offices.” “This year I’ve made several visits to each of the 33 counties I represent, and I’m very pleased to have held Open Office Hours in each as well.” At Open Office Hours, as well as staff-led Traveling Help Desks, local constituents can share their thoughts on legislation and public policy, as well as get help dealing with a federal agency like the Social Security Administration or Department of Veterans Affairs. The one-on-one meetings are typically held in city hall or the county courthouse. Constituents are encouraged to visit shimkus.house.gov/events to see when Open Office Hours and Traveling Help Desks are coming to their area. “It’s important to be available and present in the community,” added Shimkus, who returns to his hometown of Collinsville every weekend and week the House is not in session. “Part of that too is embracing technology to connect with people online. Folks can contact me 24/7 through my website or social media.” Congressman Shimkus maintains an active Facebook page and sends the majority of his own tweets under the handle @RepShimkus, including a tweet each morning of a Bible verse from his daily devotions. Videos of the congressman in the Energy & Commerce Committee and debating legislation on the House floor are also available on YouTube. Phone numbers and mailing addresses for the congressman’s Capitol Hill and district offices are available HERE. ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) took another step to keep terrorists out of the United States today, voting with a bipartisan majority to strengthen the U.S. Visa Waiver Program. “Last month I voted to halt the resettlement of Syrian and Iraqi refugees in the United States until the Administration can guarantee that each individual poses no threat to our own security,” said Shimkus. “Today I voted to require anyone who has traveled to those same areas in the last five years to obtain a visa before they can come to the U.S. for any length of time.” H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act also requires that countries participating in the program enhance their own security screening and information sharing with U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials. Failure to comply is grounds for suspension or termination from the Visa Waiver Program. “These efforts would not be as urgent if the Commander-in-Chief would take aggressive and decisive action against Islamic militants in their safe havens abroad,” added Shimkus. “The best thing we could do for not only our own freedom and security, but for the innocent refugees and our allies abroad, is to defeat the uncontained menace known as ISIL and help bring an end to the Syrian civil war.” Background: Created in 1986, the Visa Waiver Program allows nationals from certain countries, most of which are in Europe, to enter the United States as temporary visitors (for up to 90 days) for business or tourism without first obtaining a visa from a U.S. consulate abroad. Those entering through the program are required to present a valid passport and meet certain other requirements (including an online security screening) prior to travel. Temporary visitors from non-Visa Waiver Program countries must always obtain a visa from U.S. Department of State officers at a consular office abroad before traveling to the United States. ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) testified before the House Veterans Affairs Committee on his legislation to allow the VA Illiana Health Care System and Danville Area Community College (DACC) to make mutually beneficial adjustments to their property lines. H.R. 3262 would allow the VA to transfer 0.6 acres of land from its property in Danville, in exchange for 1.06 acres of land currently owned by Danville Area Community College (DACC). “Swapping the land provides benefits to both the VA and the local community,” Shimkus explained to the committee. “The Danville VA has looked into the possibility of building a fence along its perimeter, but as the property lines are currently drawn, that boundary is not a straight line. Swapping these two small parcels will fix that problem, cutting construction costs should the VA choose that option.” The community would benefit from the more than one hundred year old Carnegie Library that sits on the property that would be transferred from the VA to DACC. “With the generous help of private donors, DACC plans to transform the old building into an arts center,” Shimkus continued. “By swapping these parcels of land, we can relieve the VA of the burden of maintaining an old building, while providing the community with a historically significant location for a cultural attraction.” The legislation must still be approved by the Veterans Affairs Committee before it is considered on the House floor. Senator Kirk (R, Illinois) has introduced companion legislation (S. 1967) in the Senate. ###
12.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s oval office address tonight: "President Obama is wrong. He refuses to aggressively defeat Islamic radicals in their safe havens abroad and, because of his feckless foreign policy, their violence has visited our homeland yet again. Taking away Americans' unalienable right to defend themselves and their families is exactly what our enemies want. I will oppose every effort by this Administration to disarm law abiding American citizens." ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – In the flurry of legislative business before the year’s end, the House passed two bills this week to reauthorize transportation infrastructure funding and restore local control of primary and secondary education. Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported both bipartisan measures. “Repaving miles of interstate and building new bridges are major construction projects that directly and indirectly employ thousands of workers,” Shimkus said of H.R. 22, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act. “After years of short term patches, this five year reauthorization allows states to plan for big infrastructure projects with certainty that they’ll have the resources to see them through.” The transportation bill does not raise the federal gas tax or add to the deficit. This week the House also approved S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act. This four year reauthorization and reform of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act is the first since the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB) of 2002. “In the years since NCLB, the Department of Education has made a bad situation worse,” said Shimkus. “This bill prohibits the federal government from forcing or incentivizing the adoption of the Common Core curriculum. It also eliminates federally-prescribed school turnaround models, putting states and local school districts in charge of designing their own accountability and intervention procedures.” The legislation eliminates NCLB’s Adequate Yearly Progress performance measurement system and also allows parents to opt their child(ren) out of the annual assessment if state law allows. ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON – As the House debated energy legislation this week, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) reminded his fellow representatives of the human toll of the Obama Administration’s War on Coal. “The human toll is lost jobs, lost benefits, and bankruptcies which then creates a risk to the promised pension payments to retirees,” Shimkus said. “It becomes a loss of revenue to the taxing districts, to the counties, to the villages, to the first line responders and support for our schools. It dries up the ability for the local grocery store and the local hardware store to operate. It is… devastating to southern Illinois.” Shimkus also cited comments made by Galatia Mayor David Harrawood to The Southern Illinoisan last month after Murray Energy announced it expects to close the New Era mine in mid-2016. Before layoffs earlier this year, New Era and its sister mine, New Future, employed about 700 people. “It impacts everybody,” Harrawood told The Southern on November 10. “It doesn’t just impact coal miners. It impacts trucking businesses, the stores, all their vendors. It’s not just one segment. Down here, we’re all tied together.” Each Illinois coal job supports 3.8 other jobs in the economy, according to the National Mining Association. On Tuesday, Shimkus voted to use the Congressional Review Act to block two Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rules for new and existing power plants. The resolutions seek to block the administration’s end run around Congress and keep electricity prices affordable, protect jobs, and grid reliability. “This is cap and trade all over again,” Shimkus said of the rules. “The EPA is attempting to do by regulation what a bipartisan majority in Congress refused to move through the legislative process.” This week the House is also expected to pass H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act. “Our energy policy today is rooted in 1970s scarcity thinking,” Shimkus said. “This legislation capitalizes on America’s energy abundance. We are the world’s top energy producer.” H.R. 8 would: Modernize America’s energy infrastructure, speeding up the permitting process for pipeline and grid improvement projects; Protect the electricity system against physical and cyber-attacks, electromagnetic pulse, geomagnetic disturbances, severe weather, and seismic events; Strengthen energy security and diplomacy by reforming the approval process for liquefied natural gas (LNG) and crude oil exports; and Improve energy efficiency and government accountability. ###
11.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) led the U.S. House of Representatives to pass S. 611, the Grassroots Rural and Small Community Water Systems Assistance Act on Monday. The bill, which helps smaller and rural communities deal with the technical and financial challenges of regulations under the Safe Water Drinking Act, passed by voice vote. “A major source of financial stress for small and rural drinking water supply systems is compliance with a number of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations,” Shimkus explained. “These communities depend heavily on federal and state grants, as well as subsidized loan programs, to finance their needs.” Many times, however, simply giving communities more money is not the answer. “These communities may need access to technical professionals to help find the most cost-effective way to comply with EPA standards,” Shimkus continued. “Technical assistance offered by EPA allows small, public water authorities to identify affordable repair and replacement options for their systems.” S. 611 reauthorizes EPA’s technical assistance program through 2020 for small, public water systems and maintains the existing annual funding level of $15 million. It also authorizes funding used by non-profit organizations to provide technical assistance to small, public water systems. The legislation unanimously passed the Senate in June and will now go to President Obama for his signature to become law. ###
11.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) signed a letter sent to House appropriators today in opposition to President Obama’s unilateral pledge of U.S. taxpayer dollars to the United Nations’ Green Climate Fund. “Congress never authorized a dime for this,” said Shimkus. “No money for the U.N. Green Climate Fund should be included in any spending bill without such an authorization. Congress decides how taxpayer money should be spent, not the president.” The Green Climate Fund was created in 2009 to raise $100 billion a year in financing for “green” energy projects in developing countries. In their letter, 110 Members of Congress noted that they had never voted to authorize such funding. Yet without the consent of Congress and despite serious domestic budget constraints, President Obama unilaterally pledged $3 billion in U.S. taxpayer funding to the United Nations. A copy of the letter can be found HERE. ###
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today voted for H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act. The bill, which received broad bipartisan support in the House, requires the DHS Secretary, FBI Director, and Director of National Intelligence to certify to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat prior to his or her admission to the United States. “The SAFE Act puts a stop to the resettlement of Syrian and Iraqi refugees in the United States until our nation’s top security officials can be certain that each individual poses no threat to our homeland,” said Shimkus. “This is not an imagined threat. The Obama Administration themselves even paused the flow of refugees from Iraq for six months in 2011 after learning that several dozen terrorists may have infiltrated the United States through the program.” As reported by ABC News, fingerprints lifted from an unexploded improvised explosive device (IED) in 2009 matched those of two Iraqi men living in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Despite the pair having been detained during the war by Iraqi authorities, they were able to slip into the United States through an inadequate refugee screening process. Shimkus also signed a letter, authored by Rep. Brian Babin (R, Texas-36), to House leaders requesting that Congress use its power of the purse to prohibit the use of funds to bring refugees from the Middle East and North Africa into the United States. The letter asks that funds continue to be made available to provide for the safety of refugees overseas, including housing, food and medical aid. “The best thing we could to for the refugees is to defeat the Islamic State and negotiate a cease fire in the Syrian civil war that forced them out of their homes in the first place,” Shimkus added. ###
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and retired Army Lieutenant Colonel, today extended his thoughts and prayers to the French people and called for the U.S. to honor our commitment to NATO’s mutual defense in response to the terrorist attack in Paris over the weekend. “France has been with us from the siege of Yorktown, to the beaches of Normandy, to the mountains of Afghanistan and the global war on terror,” said Shimkus. “My thoughts and prayers remain with the French people, our friends and oldest allies, during this dark time.” Shimkus, who previously represented the United States Congress as a delegate to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, also echoed a call yesterday by House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R, Texas-10) for a NATO coalition to defeat and destroy the Islamic State. “President François Hollande and Prime Minister Manuel Valls both called the attack by the Islamic State ‘an act of war’ against their country,” said Shimkus. “Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty states that ‘an armed attack against one’ alliance member is ‘an attack against them all.’ NATO should take steps to invoke Article 5, as they did after 9/11, and lead a coalition to rid the world of this menace.” The treaty specifically requires that each NATO member undertake “such action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force, to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area.” Shimkus also connected the attacks in Paris to our need to suspend refugee resettlement in the United States. “I agree with Governor Rauner’s decision not to accept refugees in Illinois,” said Shimkus. “We want to be compassionate to the innocent among them, but it’s naïve to think that terrorists could not exploit our inability to adequately screen them all. The best thing we could to for the refugees is to defeat the Islamic State and negotiate a cease fire in the Syrian civil war that forced them out of their homes in the first place.” To better protect our homeland, Congressman Shimkus cosponsored H.R. 3573, the Refugee Resettlement Oversight and Security Act today. This legislation would: Require affirmative approval by both the House and Senate before any refugees are admitted to the US; Allow Congress to block any inadequate refugee resettlement plan put forward by the President; Require the administration, when considering the admission of refugees from Iraq and Syria, to prioritize the resettlement of oppressed religious minorities; and Ensure the Department of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence and FBI, provide new security assurances before admitting refugees into the country and for the Governmental Accountability Office to conduct a sweeping review of security gaps in the current refugee screening process. ###
11.06.2015	Maryville, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s long-anticipated rejection of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “President Obama’s rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline today is based upon neither the facts nor our national interest. It’s nothing but a shameless political move to appease his radical, anti-fossil fuel base. The reality is, as President Obama’s own State Department concluded, construction of KXL would actually cut the carbon emissions he so frequently urges action to reduce, and create thousands of good paying jobs Americans continue to demand. “Here in Illinois, the original Keystone pipeline safely carries crude oil from Alberta to the Wood River Refinery and Patoka tank farm. This pipeline has supported high paying jobs in our area since 2010, and Keystone XL promised to do the same for thousands more American workers. Because of President Obama’s decision today, those jobs will be created overseas instead.” ###
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON – After more than 20 hours of debate and consideration of 126 amendments, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted in support of a long-term transportation infrastructure bill on Thursday. “With this highway bill, it’s great to be back working to build infrastructure and grow jobs,” said Shimkus. “From the heavy equipment to the men and women who operate them, this helps bring certainty.” The bill reauthorizes funding for state and local governments to undertake necessary and complex large-scale construction projects – including roads, bridges, and public transportation systems – as well as provide for the safe and efficient transport of hazardous materials. Building on previous reform efforts by the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee, the bill reduces delays with environmental reviews and permitting processes. It also eliminates duplicative regulatory processes by creating a pilot program to empower states to use their own existing environmental laws and regulations. “By streamlining the permitting process, we again start reining in the EPA,” added Shimkus. The nation’s surface transportation system is comprised of more than 4 million miles of public roads, 600,000 bridges, and 270,000 public transit route miles. Federal programs to maintain this system are primarily funded through taxes on motor fuels that are deposited into the Highway Trust Fund. States are required to provide matching funds for each project. ###
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today voted against a two-year budget and debt limit deal negotiated between the president and congressional leaders. “Since Republicans took control of Congress, the budget deficit has dropped at the fastest rate since the end of WWII,” said Shimkus. “We’ve cut the EPA’s budget by 30 percent and forced President Obama to accept caps on both discretionary and mandatory spending. This deal undermines that progress by relying on budget gimmicks to lift those hard-won spending caps and mask our still growing national debt.” The deal would suspend the nation’s borrowing limit through March 2017, allowing for the addition of roughly $1.5 trillion to our over $18 trillion national debt. “By locking in the spending levels set by this deal and raising the debt limit through the end of the Obama Administration, we’re closing the door on any opportunity to further cut spending over the next two years,” Shimkus added. Specific provisions of the deal also raised concerns, including Section 201, which deals with crop insurance. “Without even consulting the agriculture committees, this deal reopened the Farm Bill to make unprecedented cuts to crop insurance,” said Shimkus. “These cuts may save money on paper in the short term, but the long term effect of driving private insurers out of the crop insurance market could put this vital safety net solely on the backs of taxpayers. ###
10.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) signed a letter to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) asking the agency to rescind its reinterpretation of the Process Safety Management (PSM) program that could put a strain on small and medium sized fertilizer facilities. “I recently met with constituents at Effingham Equity who voiced their concern about the burden the application of these regulations would put on their fertilizer and chemical business,” Shimkus said. Without a delay, small and medium sized fertilizer facilities would be required to comply with the new standards within six months. “Everyone supports safety, but these local facilities are already regulated by not only OSHA, but the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Homeland Security,” Shimkus added. “Holding these facilities to the same requirements as major chemical plants within six months is unrealistic. I’ve asked OSHA to roll back their decision and work with the industry to find a way to ensure safety without threatening our local agricultural businesses.” A copy of the letter to OSHA, signed by 39 Members of Congress including Shimkus, can be found HERE. ###
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted in support of a budget reconciliation bill today that would withhold federal funding for Planned Parenthood, repeal large portions of Obamacare and cut the deficit by $130 billion over ten years. “Unlike a continuing resolution, the budget reconciliation bill cannot be filibustered by pro-abortion extremists in the Senate,” said Shimkus. “This is the only way to put a bill to defund Planned Parenthood on the President’s desk.” Using the budget reconciliation process to stop taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood is the preferred strategy of the March for Life and Susan B. Anthony List, as well as the National Right to Life Committee, the nation’s oldest and largest pro-life organization. The budget reconciliation bill would also repeal major parts of Obamacare, including the individual and employer mandates, as well as taxes on ‘Cadillac’ insurance plans and medical devices. “I’ve voted over 60 times to dismantle Obamacare,” added Shimkus. “And while some of those bills making limited changes to the law made it to the White House, and a few were signed by the President, no Obamacare repeal of this scale has gotten past Senate Democrats’ filibuster. That streak ends when this reconciliation bill lands on President Obama’s desk.” A Congressional Budget Office score of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3762) says the bill would reduce the deficit by $129.8 billion over 10 years. Additionally, the bill requires that savings from defunding Planned Parenthood be redirected toward community health centers that offer women and their families a wider range of services. The reconciliation bill is supported by Americans for Prosperity, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and Americans for Tax Reform. ###
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illlinois-15) released the following statement on President Obama’s veto of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “The annual NDAA has been vetoed just four times in over 50 years. Each time was based on an objection to a specific provision of the bill, and each time a compromise was reached that ultimately earned the President’s signature. “What makes this veto different is that the Commander-in-Chief is rejecting a vital, broadly bipartisan defense bill because he wants spending caps lifted on his own domestic political agenda. In a world made more dangerous each day by the administration’s feckless foreign policy, it’s indefensible that President Obama has chosen to withhold the pay, benefits and resources our troops need to continue their important missions around the world.” ### NOTE: An actuality (transcript below) for radio and television broadcast can be found HERE. “If he was vetoing it because we’re not authorizing enough money… If he were vetoing it because he doesn’t like that we’re going to authorize military equipment to Ukraine… If there were really policy issues, we could work through that. But to use this as a sacrificial lamb, and cry that he’s not getting money in the EPA or the Department of Energy or Health and Human Services, is just wrong. I think it sends a bad signal to our young men and women who are deployed in our country and around the world saying ‘what is the Commander-in-Chief thinking about?’”
10.21.2015	Edwardsville, Illinois – In a video released today by the Southern Illinois University in Edwardsville (SIUE), Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) says he was “humbled” to be selected as the first graduate school inductee to the SIUE Alumni Association Hall of Fame. “A lot of people have gone through the program and done great things,” Shimkus said in the video above. “I'm humbled by this honor, and hope I'm worthy of it.” The university honored eight graduates at the 2015 SIUE Alumni Hall of Fame ceremony on October 2, in the Morris University Center. The Hall of Fame recognizes alumni who have demonstrated exploits in their respective fields, are role models and are a testament to SIUE’s educational excellence. “As of this past May, SIUE surpassed the 100,000 mark in alumni,” said Steve Jankowski, Director of Alumni Affairs at SIUE and Executive Director of the SIUE Alumni Association. “The Hall of Fame was established in 2008 to recognize more of the outstanding graduates produced by this University. It was also designed to serve as an inspiration to current students through the visual representation of the legacy created by those individuals. Congressman Shimkus certainly qualifies on both of those standards. It is an honor to have him included among the almost 100 inductees of the Hall of Fame.” Shimkus holds the Hall of Fame plaque with Graduate School Dean Jerry Weinberg. “I learned the language of business at SIUE,” Shimkus added. “After being elected Madison County Treasurer on the belief that I could lead, I needed a strong accounting and finance background so I could effectively manage an office. It took a while, but it was worth it, and it has helped me as a Member of Congress.” ###
10.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. Mike Bost (IL-12), Rodney Davis (IL-13) and John Shimkus (IL-15) sent a letter to Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker urging a meeting to discuss trade enforcement-related matters. The delegation’s request comes in the wake of U.S. Steel’s recent announcement that they may temporarily idle operations at their Granite City Works facility. “We must work together on behalf of our steelworkers and their families to ensure this rollercoaster ride doesn’t continue,” said Rep. Bost. “Rep. Davis and I were successful in securing enhanced trade remedies to protect against illegal trade practices. I am eager to hear from the Department of Commerce how these provisions will be implemented and help restore certainty and ensure that our efforts to put American workers on an even playing field in the global marketplace are successful.” “Steelworkers in my district cannot wait for the federal government to implement trade provisions that were signed into law months ago,” said Rep. Davis. “We need the U.S. Department of Commerce to act now. We need them to implement the changes my colleagues and I authored to hold countries who break our trade laws accountable and prevent further job loss within our steel industry.” “Trade legislation signed in the law earlier this year included important anti-dumping and countervailing duties provisions authored by Reps. Bost and Davis,” said Rep. Shimkus. “It’s imperative that we get an update on the implementation of these provisions before the House considers any new trade agreement with countries that may have engaged in unfair trade practices.” Currently, three anti-dumping and countervailing duty petitions filed by several companies in the domestic steel industry are before the International Trade Commission (ITC). Earlier this year, the President signed into law a provision Bost and Davis introduced to protect American workers from the illegal dumping of foreign products in U.S. markets. A copy of the letter sent to Secretary Pritzker can be found HERE. ###
10.07.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today for the creation of a special subcommittee to investigate Planned Parenthood’s harvesting of organs and tissue from aborted babies. The subcommittee will be under the jurisdiction of the powerful House Energy & Commerce Committee, on which Shimkus is a senior member. “The undercover videos released by the Center for Medical Progress show positively unethical and potentially criminal actions by Planned Parenthood,” said Shimkus. “While Energy and Commerce staff have already begun an investigation, those interviews have only raised more questions. By creating this subcommittee, with subpoena power to demand documents and compel testimony, the American people can get the answers they deserve.” Last month Shimkus voted to prohibit taxpayer funding of Planned Parenthood until the ongoing congressional investigations are complete. ###
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a senior member of the Energy & Commerce Committee, released the following statement today in response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) new National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS): “The air we breathe is clean and already getting cleaner. Ozone levels have been on the decline for decades, even as many areas of the country still strive to meet the current NAAQS EPA set in 2008. The EPA claims their new standards are meant to limit air pollution, but the only thing they’ll limit are manufacturing jobs and economic growth. Under the unattainable standards announced today, even national parks like Yosemite and the Great Smoky Mountains would be unable to fully comply. EPA is changing the rules on the fly and the people who are creating jobs in this country cannot manage it.” ###
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Citing the potential creation of more than 450 jobs, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is welcoming the announcement of a $142,500 Economic Development Administration investment in a commercial driver’s license truck driving course in Noble to be operated by Illinois Eastern Community Colleges. “The community colleges serve an area that certainly can use an economic boost, and I believe this grant will provide just that,” Shimkus said. “As a matter of fact, EDA anticipates 458 jobs will be created as a result of this project. It comes at a time when truck drivers are in high demand.” The funding will go toward the acquisition of truck driving equipment and a tractor trailer to develop and implement an operational CDL course. A training program and job-placement assistance will be offered to area residents to address the need for additional and alternate job opportunities in the region. “IECC is very excited to receive this grant,” said Jervaise McDaniel, grant administrator, who noted the community college district partnered with the Greater Wabash Regional Planning Commission to apply for the EDA investment. “The funds from this grant will allow our instructors to use the latest technology and provide the highest quality training.” The total project cost is expected to be $285,000, with exactly half provided by the Department of Commerce in Economic Adjustment Assistance through EDA’s Regional Logistics Training Program. EDA grants are awarded through a competitive process based upon an application’s merit, the applicant’s eligibility, and the availability of funds. ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON -- Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to Speaker John Boehner's (R, Ohio-8) retirement announcement: "It is all about sacrificial love. Laying down the vestiges of power for the greater good of the country, the institution, and the Republican Conference." ###
09.24.2015	MARYVILLE – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has announced funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to the Pocahontas-Old Ripley Fire Protection District. The district will receive $23,510 under the Operations and Safety category. “I am pleased that another fire department in the 15th Congressional District has been successful in obtaining this funding,” Shimkus said. “My staff and I work with fire departments and other first responders every year in preparing for this competitive grant program. I encourage first responders who may not have applied before to contact my office if they have any questions about the process.” The AFG Program is administered by the the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. Operations and Safety projects can include professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective equipment, modifications to facilities, and related supplies. ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released to following statement in reaction to the address by Pope Francis to the Joint Meeting of Congress today: “His Holiness was very careful in his words to ensure that he caused no ill will between some of the divergent views in Congress. He reminded us that the United States is both an immigrant nation and a world leader. That unique position and power, as the Pope said, calls us to be compassionate and helpful. I think that’s a message we all need to hear and I’m glad he delivered it.” ###
09.18.2015	WASHINGTON – Following stops at three Planned Parenthood locations in Illinois on Tuesday where he presented more comprehensive alternatives for women’s health care needs, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted to end all taxpayer support for the nation’s largest abortion provider today. “There are twice as many Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) in Illinois than Planned Parenthood clinics,” said Shimkus. “These federally-supported health centers offer women access to a wider range of services and provide a ‘medical home’ where an entire family can gain access to health care regardless of income.” The House-passed legislation – H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 – would defund Planned Parenthood while congressional committees continue their investigation into allegations that the abortion provider altered procedures to harvest and sell baby organs. Changing medical procedures for such a purpose is unethical and the sale of human tissue is prohibited by federal law. Shimkus also supported H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. This legislation would require that children who survive an abortion be given the same medical care as any premature infant. “Miracles happen every day,” said Shimkus. “When a child survives an attempted abortion, we should not turn our back on that precious gift of life.” ###
09.15.2015	EFFINGHAM, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and staunch supporter of the Right to Life, called for an end to taxpayer funding of the nation’s largest abortion provider outside three Planned Parenthood locations today. Shimkus speaks to reporters at a news conference outside Planned Parenthood in Champaign. Shimkus said women have better options than Planned Parenthood for their unique health care needs and that Congress should redirect federal funds toward those more comprehensive alternatives. “Federally Qualified Health Centers and Rural Health Centers generally offer a wider range of health care services to women and new mothers than Planned Parenthood, including mammograms as well as prenatal and perinatal services,” said Shimkus. To qualify for federal reimbursements, a Federally Qualified Health Center must offer the same women’s health care services as any Planned Parenthood location, including birth control and OB/GYN services. “There are just 18 Planned Parenthood locations in Illinois” added Shimkus, “but more than 40 federally-funded health centers in the state where women can access all the same health care services except abortions.” Shimkus speaks to constituents and reporters outside Planned Parenthood in Effingham. Planned Parenthood is under investigation by three congressional committees, including the Energy & Commerce Committee, after a series of undercover videos exposed the company’s role in the trafficking of organs and tissue from aborted babies. The videos, a product of a multiyear investigation by the Center for Medical Progress, allege Planned Parenthood and its affiliates unethically altered medical procedures to harvest organs and profited from the sale of human tissue in violation of federal law. This week the House will vote on legislation to defund Planned Parenthood while the congressional investigations proceed. Congressman Shimkus will also participate in a Health Subcommittee hearing on legislation to bolster the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act of 2002 and the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. ###
09.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) addressed the House of Representatives today in strong opposition to President Obama’s bad deal with Iran. TRANSCRIPT: “I've been fortunate to do many things: I was an Army Officer in West Germany, a High School Teacher, a local elected official -- now as a Member of Congress I'm honored to cast votes for the people I represent. My constituents want the president to follow the law as is his responsibility under Article 2 of the Constitution. The president did not submit all the necessary documents as required under the law. I and my constituents want to know what's in these side agreements. And to my colleague from Maryland, those assurances aren't good enough when we're going down this path of peace and war, to trust the IAEA with no documents and not being able to see that. Our primary responsibility here is to protect our citizens against all enemies, foreign and domestic. This deal gives Iran more money. They will remain the number one state sponsor of terror. They will continue to chant 'Death to America' and 'Death to Israel.' They will not free our citizens. So now we assure that Iran will get nuclear weapons, the region will go into a nuclear arms race, and the world and the U.S. will be less safe. This is a terrible deal. An embarrassing deal. And one we will regret in the future. Vote to fully disclose this deal. Vote against the deal. And vote to keep the sanctions on. I yield back the balance of my time.” This week the House will vote on three separate bills related to the Iran deal: The first to declare the sense of the House that President Obama has violated the terms of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act by failing to submit the side deals negotiated between Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the second on approval of the deal itself, and the third to suspend the authority of the president to lift existing sanctions until January 2017. ###
09.04.2015	EFFINGHAM – Speaking at the Effingham Chamber of Commerce First Friday Luncheon today, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) was presented with the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award. The award recognizes his support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies during the second session of the 113th Congress. Randy Nehrt, Executive Director of the Illinois Chamber's Energy Council, and Maggie Sheely, U.S. Chamber's Great Lakes Region Manager of Congressional and Public Affairs, present Congressman Shimkus with the Spirit of Enterprise Award. “You can’t get Americans back to work without employers to hire them,” said Shimkus. “I’m proud of my votes for legislation that helps grow our economy and create jobs.” Bills to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline and block the EPA’s Waters of the U.S. Rule were among the key votes considered for the Spirit of Enterprise Award. “For 50 years, through our How They Voted scorecard, the U.S. Chamber has been recognizing legislators from both sides of the aisle who have worked to pass legislation and enact policies that bolster our country’s economy, create jobs and keep our nation’s spirit of enterprise alive,” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Thomas J. Donohue said. “The Spirit of Enterprise award honors members of Congress like Rep. John Shimkus who have recognized the need for and shown a commitment to pro-growth policies in the second session of the 113th Congress.” ###
08.28.2015	MARYVILLE – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, college students, and anyone interested should apply now for summer 2016 admission. “As the school year begins, many students are thinking about what’s next. As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, I am eager to provide information and assistance with nominations to the military academies,” Shimkus stated. To be eligible for appointment, you must be a United States citizen; at least 17 and not more than 23 years of age on July 1, 2016; unmarried; not pregnant; have no dependents; and a legal resident of the 15th Congressional District of Illinois. Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Students interested in applying HERE. Completed applications have to be received no later than November 6, 2015, or they will not be considered. More information is available by calling the Congressman’s Maryville office at (618) 288-7190. Shimkus nominates to the academies; however, academy officials actually make the final selection regarding admission. Those accepted into an academy will be notified in early 2016. “I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact us now,” Shimkus added. “There are several steps in this process, and applications must be filed with both my office and online with the individual academies.” ###
08.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record recognizing the 200th anniversary of the City of Greenville. Greenville was founded in 1815 by pioneer George Davidson and is one of the oldest communities in the state. "I rise today to honor the City of Greenville, Illinois, on its Bicentennial Celebration. The city will celebrate throughout the year with a variety of community events, including a Labor Day gala featuring a parade, historic re-enactments and musical performances, a July 4th opening of a time capsule buried in 1990, and the burial of a new time capsule on New Year's Eve with mementos from the year's festivities. The city will also erect a permanent monument within city limits to commemorate this historic occasion," said Shimkus. The Congressman will participate in the city’s Bicentennial Parade, which will be held Sunday, September 6, beginning at 3 p.m. "I extend my congratulations to the City of Greenville upon this special occasion. It is my prayer that the Lord blesses its residents with another 200 years of health and prosperity," Shimkus said. The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
08.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) introduced legislation before the House adjourned for August that would allow the Illiana Health Care System of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Danville to complete a mutually beneficial land transfer with Danville Area Community College (DACC). “This is a pretty simple, commonsense bill,” said Shimkus. “The VA would get the land they need to consolidate their property and build a straight fence line, and they would no longer have to maintain an aging library. The college would get the land they want with the library on it that they would then be able to renovate. It’s a win-win.” Alice Marie Jacobs, DACC President, expressed appreciation to Congressman Shimkus for working with both the College and the VA Illiana Health Care system for the property exchange, which she said benefits both organizations. “The property exchange will allow space for future expansion for the performing and visual arts as well as additional conferencing space." The two-page bill, H.R. 3262, was referred to the House Committee on Veterans Affairs on July 28. ###
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent congressional record congratulating Carmi-based Elastec/American Marine on their 25th Anniversary. The statement reads: Elastec/American Marine is a company that manufactures pollution recovery systems, focusing in international oil spill recovery. The company has over 100 employees, and its headquarters are located in Carmi, Illinois, with another location in Fairfield, Illinois, that opened in 2012. The company has received numerous awards for not only its products, but its employees and operations as well. Twenty-five years ago, CEO Donnie Wilson and VP Jeff Cantrell combined their skills to create a drum oil skimmer and established Elastec. Over the years, with investors, Director Bill Harmon, the continuing development of systems and products, among other contributors, Elastec/American Marine has become a leader in manufacturing systems of pollution recovery. These systems and products reach over 145 countries. “I am honored to have a company that is recognized for such work within my district,” Shimkus said. “I look forward to hearing about Elastec/American Marine’s continued success.” The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
07.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Parents of children and young adults with disabilities will be receiving help navigating the often overwhelming search for educational assistance, thanks to nearly $250,000 in federal funding announced by Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15). The Family Matters Parent Training and Information Center, based in Effingham, has been awarded a grant from the U.S. Department of Education’s Parent Training and Information Center Program. The funding, totaling $249,925, covers October 2015 through September 2016. “This program is intended to help parents understand the provisions of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act and related federal acts and the state rules for implementing them,” Shimkus said. “It is hoped that parents will gain the knowledge to become active partners in planning for the education of their children with disabilities.” In 2002, Family Matters was awarded a Department of Education grant to become a Parent Training and Information Center to serve the entire state of Illinois outside of the Chicago area. As a Parent Training and Information Center, Family Matters provides information, referral, linkages, and training to parents, students with disabilities, and special education professionals. ###
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported two bills this week that have significant benefits for constituents in central and southern Illinois where coal and agricultural industries are major employers and drivers of economic growth. H.R. 1734, the Improving Coal Combustion Residuals Regulation Act Coal combustion residuals, or ‘coal ash,’ is a byproduct of burning coal for electricity generation and is commonly stored in ponds near power plants. When recycled, coal ash helps keep utility costs low and provides for low-cost durable construction materials like concrete, wallboard and roofing shingles. “Coal ash is not hazardous,” said Shimkus during debate on the bill. “All you have to do is talk to any of the thousands of coal ash recyclers across the country and they will tell you that not only is coal ash not hazardous, it is an essential component in their products.” Last year the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized a rule to regulate coal ash. The EPA rule sets reasonable safety standards to protect human health and the environment, but leaves enforcement of the rule up to costly litigation and subject to inconsistent interpretations by federal courts. It also leaves open the door to future classification of coal ash as ‘hazardous waste.’ Such a designation would severely limit the beneficial reuse of the recyclable material. “H.R. 1734 shares the same goal as EPA’s rule: to improve protections for health and the environment,” said Shimkus. “But this bill goes a step further than EPA and breathes real-life enforcement authority into the standards. By putting states in charge of implementation, we can achieve the protections we all want and give job-creators the certainty they desperately need.” Estimates project the House-passed legislation would protect approximately 316,000 jobs. A fact sheet on the H.R. 1734 can be found HERE. H.R. 1599, the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act Emotionally-driven concerns over genetically modified organisms (GMOs) have led to a growing patchwork of state imposed food labeling laws. While well-intentioned, these labeling requirements are based on inconsistent standards and create more confusion and cost than consumer confidence. “No credible scientific evidence has shown bioengineering to be anything but safe,” said Shimkus. “Mandatory labeling laws would further undermine public confidence in the safety of GMOs by wrongfully suggesting that non-GMO foods are somehow safer or healthier.” To stem the tide of costly and misleading state labeling laws, H.R. 1599 would permit anyone who wants to label their products as having been produced or developed without the use of genetic engineering to do so through a voluntary USDA-accredited certification process mirroring the USDA’s successful National Organic Program. “Most of the food we consume every day contains genetically engineered ingredients,” said Shimkus. “Non-GMO foods are the exception and our approach to labeling should reflect that reality.” H.R. 1599 maintains FDA’s longstanding role in regulating food and food labels, including those from genetically engineered crops. Under the bill, a new genetically engineered crop cannot be sold for use in food until FDA has no further questions about its safety. More information on H.R. 1599 is available HERE. ###
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supports several efforts aimed at better protecting military personnel serving on bases and at recruitment centers around the United States. “My heart goes out to the loved ones of Sergeant Carson Homquist, Gunnery Sergeant Thomas Sullivan, Lance Corporal Skip Wells, Staff Sergeant David Wyatt, and Petty Officer Randall Smith,” said Shimkus. “The cowardly attack that claimed the lives of these five patriots in Chattanooga last week is a reminder that terrorism knows no borders or rules and that we must remain vigilant at all times, at home and abroad.” “Simply watching and waiting for the next assault on our homeland is not enough,” Shimkus added. “When a terrorist can gun down defenseless military or civilian personnel at a recruitment center in a strip mall or at military installations like Fort Hood or the Washington Navy Yard, it’s clear that our current force protection policies are inadequate.” Congressman Shimkus has taken three recent steps to help improve those policies. In June, Shimkus voted for the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act. This legislation included a provision that would allow base commanders to permit troops under their command to carry small arms on base in accordance with local, state and federal laws. This week, Shimkus cosponsored the Securing Military Personnel Response Firearm Initiative (SEMPER FI) Act. This legislation, introduced on Tuesday by Congressman Duncan Hunter (R, California-50), would authorize officers and non-commissioned officers on duty at recruitment centers to carry a service-issued sidearm for protection. The bill also authorizes the Department of Defense to develop and implement additional security improvements for recruitment centers. The SEMPER FI Act was also introduced in the U.S. Senate this week by Senator Steve Daines (R, Montana). While the legislation is considered, Shimkus also cosigned a letter to Secretary Ashton Carter requesting that the Department of Defense “take immediate steps to allow our military personnel to be armed at” military service centers. A copy of that letter, authored by Congressman John Mica (R, Florida-7) and signed by 19 Members of Congress, can be found HERE. ###
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Ill.) today introduced bipartisan legislation to protect local television broadcasters with Joint Sales Agreements (JSAs) that were approved before the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) sought to prohibit the practice on March 31, 2014. Representatives Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Md.), Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.) and Greg Walden (R-Ore.) are original cosponsors. Critical in small and medium-sized media markets, JSAs enable local TV broadcasters to reduce operating costs by merging their advertising sales department with another station. The cost savings can be used to expand local news coverage through investments in things like Doppler radar systems or closed-captioning services. “When severe weather threatens my district, many folks rely on local TV broadcasts to keep their family safe,” said Congressman John Shimkus. “The FCC says their controversial rule is intended to prevent media monopolies, but the commission has failed to complete a required review of media ownership rules in more than six years. I’m pleased to have bipartisan support for this legislation to protect vital local news and weather broadcasts from FCC’s ill-informed rule.” “Joint Sales Agreements have increased diversity and competition in the market and we should embrace that,” said Congresswoman Renee Ellmers. “At the very least, we should allow those who have had JSAs approved by the FCC to continue those agreements. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill, and I will continue to protect constituents' access to the local programming they want and need.” "The steps we are taking with this legislation will help make sure southwest Missourians continue to have high-quality access to news, weather, sports and other information on events that impact everyday life," said Congressman Billy Long. "I am concerned of the negative effects the Ozarks could feel resulting from FCC's sudden shift in policy, as both major television media markets in Missouri's Seventh District have a reliance on joint sales agreements that improve their abilities to inform the public." “It defies common sense to prevent TV stations from working together to provide a wide array of public services, from news about community events to extreme weather updates to Amber alerts,” said Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger. “This legislation is about protecting small stations and helping them remain competitive, which benefits all Americans.” “The FCC shouldn’t change the rules in the middle of the game and this rule risks causing serious economic harm to broadcasters who’ve made significant business decisions and investments under the previous rules,” said Congressman Kurt Schrader. “For that reason, I’m happy to join my colleagues on this bipartisan bill that protects existing joint service agreements that were approved by the FCC and in effect prior to the new FCC order of March 31, 2014.” “This legislation has the potential to strengthen and preserve the critical line of communication local news stations provide audiences in New York’s Capital Region and other small and medium-sized markets across the nation,” said Congressman Paul Tonko. “I look forward to working in a bipartisan fashion with Congressman Shimkus and building on the already impressive record of cooperation and progress the Energy and Commerce Committee has produced this year.” ”Joint Sales Agreements offer local broadcasters an unmatched ability to contain operational costs as they work to serve their communities. With advertising dollars shrinking year-after-year, our goal is to permit local broadcasters to adapt to a changing and competitive market, not shackle them to a particular business model. This commonsense legislation accomplishes that goal and will empower local broadcasters that want to remain on the air providing critical, and often life-saving, information to all Americans in an evolving communications economy,” said Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden. Senator Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) introduced identical bipartisan legislation in May. ###
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today got a first-hand look at the cleanup of last Friday’s oil leak from the Plains pumping station northeast of Highland. Earlier this week he also questioned Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) Interim Director, Stacy Cummings, about the situation during an Energy and Commerce Subcommittee hearing. Shimkus took the photo below of the pumping station where the leak occurred off the main pipeline. Protective booms, pictured below, were deployed along Silver Creek to prevent approximately 100 barrels of crude oil from reaching Silver Lake. An additional boom, pictured below, was deployed around the water plant intake on Silver Lake as an added precaution. Officials have concluded that the leak does not pose a threat to drinking water supplies from Silver Lake. In a congressional hearing on Tuesday (video below), Shimkus noted that TransCanada, operators of the Keystone Pipeline, provided Highland with a spill response trailer that was used by firefighters to contain the spill before it reached the lake. In the hearing, Shimkus asked Cummings to explain how the criteria and benchmarks in PHMSA’s Corrective Action Order could provide the local community with some certainty that the pipeline will be safe when it resumes operation. Cummings said the order, which was issued on Tuesday, would look at pipefittings across the pipeline network as well as how long it took for Plains to notify emergency responders of the situation. Shimkus also asked Cummings what actions Congress could take to help PHMSA collect data from states and localities about drinking water supplies to aid in future analysis, planning and responses. ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to the Obama Administration’s nuclear deal with the Islamic Republic of Iran: “Even as today’s deal was being negotiated, Iran violated sanctions by trying to ship weapons to terrorists in Yemen, organizing and training militias in Iraq and Syria, and maintaining an active nuclear procurement program. During the deal making, Iran also seized a merchant vessel in international waters and put an American journalist on trial for espionage. Their actions speak louder than words, which is especially frightening when those words wish ‘death to America’ and promise to ‘wipe Israel off the map.’ The Iranians want the bomb as badly as they ever have; and the Obama Administration’s concessions, on everything from inspections to breakout capacity and ballistic missiles to terrorism, will turn the Ayatollah’s dream of Iran as a nuclear power into America and Israel’s worst nightmare. When Congress gets the opportunity to vote on it, I will stand with Israel and against this bad deal.” ###
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today for legislation to speed up the discovery, development and delivery of new cures and treatments. H.R. 6, the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act would streamline Food & Drug Administration (FDA) reviews and boost research funding at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Centers for Disease Control (CDC). During debate Thursday evening, Shimkus praised the 21st Century Cures Act (or simply ‘Cures’) as “a tribute to what we can do when we work together” and highlighted several provisions he offered to improve our ability to treat antibiotic resistant diseases and bring new medical devices to the market. Antibiotics Each year in the United States, at least 2 million people are infected with an antibiotic-resistant bacteria and at least 23,000 of them die as a direct result of those infections, according to the CDC. Many more patients die from other conditions that were complicated by the growth in antibiotic-resistance. A provision of 21st Century Cures authored by Shimkus and Congressman Gene Green (D, Texas-29) would speed up FDA approval of new antibiotics for the most life-threatening infections for which no other treatment options exist. The congressmen also introduced this provision as H.R. 2629, the ADAPT Act. “By creating a new, streamlined pathway for the most critically needed antibiotics and antifungals, thousands of lives can be saved each year,” said Shimkus. Medical Devices Seven other provisions offered by Shimkus would help get new, more advanced medical devices to the patients who need them. Accounting for less than 6 percent of total healthcare expenditures, new technologies and innovation in medical devices have helped reduce hospital stays and improve the quality of life for countless patients of all ages and incomes. “These provisions would speed up FDA’s review and approval processes by reducing the agency’s workload, improving training, and clarifying what data, standards and recommendations they ought to consider,” said Shimkus. “Another would expand humanitarian exemptions for devices needed to treat some of the rarest diseases.” Safety Standards According to the Energy and Commerce Committee, there are more than 10,000 known diseases for which we currently have only 500 treatments. Closing this gap is especially challenging as it can take up to 15 years from initial molecular targeting to bring a new drug to market. The 21st Cures Act takes on those challenges without compromising patient safety. Dr. Janet Woodcock, who runs the FDA’s drug center, stated publicly in June that Cures does nothing to lower FDA’s safety standards. “Cures is about cutting through the bureaucracy and red tape, not cutting corners on safety reviews,” added Shimkus. ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Taylor Roosevelt, a student of Amy Bowser at Edwards County High School and winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition from the Illinois 15th District, joined other winners from around the country in Washington this week. Congressman Shimkus with Taylor Roosevelt and her grandfather, Tom Moore, on the Speaker’s Balcony of the U.S. Capitol. The talented young artists were invited to Washington to attended a reception where they were recognized for their artistic achievements. Following the reception, Taylor and her grandfather, Tom Moore of West Salem, toured the U.S. Capitol Building with Congressman Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) and stopped for a photo on the Speaker’s Balcony. The congressman then escorted Taylor and her grandfather to the gallery of the House of Representatives to watch some of the day’s legislative business. Taylor’s winning pencil sketch, “Flag with Grandpa,” will be displayed for the next year in the pedestrian tunnel that connects the U.S. Capitol with the Cannon House Office Building. The exhibit is seen by hundreds of staff and visitors each day. “Flag with Grandpa” by Taylor Roosevelt The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent congressional record recognizing the State Champion Nashville Community High School Hornettes Softball Team. On June 6, 2015, the Hornettes won the Class 2A State Championship in a 1-0 victory over Brimfield. Coach Dempsey Witte has led the team to three state trophies in the past four years. “I would like to congratulate freshman Mackenzie McFeron for scoring the game’s only run, after reaching base on a bunt single, as well as senior Maci Ingram, who pitched for the team in all three state appearances,” said Shimkus. The statement recognizes the entire coaching staff and team comprised of: Maci Ingram, Jordi Harre, Emily Thompson, Daley Buchanan, Karly Stanowski, Brooke Bartling, Paige Kasten, Dierdra Holzhauer, Brooke Burcham, Mackenzie McFeron, Jordan Stiegman, Alli Liske, Bethany Hinkle, Charlie Heck, Dakota Hunter, Patrick Weathers, Joey Lane, trainer John Becker, and head coach Dempsey Witte. “I look forward to the continued success of the Nashville Hornettes and extend my best wishes for another outstanding season next year,” Shimkus said. The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) entered a statement into the permanent congressional record recognizing the State Champion Highland High School Bulldog Baseball Team. On June 13, 2015, the Bulldogs won the Class 3A State Championship in a 7-6 victory over Nazareth Academy. This is the Bulldog’s second title since 2008. “I would like to congratulate senior Grant Geppert for scoring a bases-loaded single during the seventh inning to give the Bulldogs the win, as well as entire Bulldog team for their numerous, outstanding defensive plays, which kept the Nazarene Academy scoring to a minimum,” said Shimkus. The statement recognizes the entire coaching staff and team comprised of: Grant Geppert, Pete Baumgartner, Andrew Winning, Tyler Kimmle, Cody Bentlage, Will Greenwald, Jordan Smith, Matt Augustin, Griffin Welz, Seth Luitjohan, Mike McGill, Austin Brown, Jim Smith, Jarrett Dubach, Tyler Pollard, Sam Greene, Chris Dickman, Nick Schmollinger, Kyle Schmitt, Matt Beyer, Trent Carriger, assistant coaches Sam Weber, Caleb Houchin, Dave Miscik, and head coach Joel Hawkins. “I look forward to the continued success of the Highland High School Bulldogs and extend my best wishes for another outstanding season next year,” Shimkus said. The entry in the congressional record can be found HERE. ###
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON – Two bills authored by Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) passed the House of Representatives today with overwhelming bipartisan support. The DOTCOM Act would protect and preserve congressional oversight of a critical transfer of the Internet’s Domain Name System (DNS), while the TSCA Modernization Act offers consumers greater confidence in the safety of American-made chemicals and the products that contain them. H.R. 805, the Domain Openness Through Continued Oversight Matters (DOTCOM) Act: “The DNS is so critical to the day-to-day operation of the global Internet that management of the system should not be entrusted to government bureaucrats in Washington or elsewhere,” said Shimkus. “My DOTCOM Act ensures the upcoming transfer away from government hands is done responsibility, with necessary and meaningful congressional oversight to protect the free and open Internet.” Shimkus remarks on the DOTCOM Act as prepared for delivery: “Thank you Mr. Speaker. Today we are here to consider H.R. 805, the DOTCOM Act. I first introduced this legislation last Congress and I am proud to see it brought to the floor today. The DOTCOM Act is a great example of what we can get done by working together and builds on the Energy and Commerce Committee’s growing record of success. Mr. Speaker, as many of my colleagues know, from the time the administration announced their intent to transition the IANA functions, I’ve had serious concerns about the potential risks associated with the move. I’ve said time and again that this is far too important to rush and that we must carefully consider all of the potential consequences and outcomes before any transition occurs. My bill would require a period of 30 legislative days for us to review any proposal that NTIA receives from the multistakeholder community and ICANN. This allows us to hear from our constituents and consult with outside experts before we decide if ICANN's proposal is satisfactory. If, in this review period allowed only through passage of the DOTCOM Act, we find that ICANN and/or its proposal does not adequately protect the free and open Internet, Congress can then take further action to either completely stop the transfer or require more safeguards to be put in place. Additionally, and perhaps most importantly, the DOTCOM Act requires NTIA to renew their contract to continue these important stewardship functions with ICANN before it expires in September. Everyone agrees that the contract should remain with NTIA while this process moves forward. DOTCOM is the vehicle to make sure this does in fact happen. Extending the contract takes the pressure off of making a rushed transition and perhaps making mistakes. We get one bite at the apple on this and we need to make sure it’s done correctly. Mr. Speaker, before I relinquish my time, I want to say that I’m very proud of the work that has been done on this bill in the Energy and Commerce Committee, particularly by Chairmen Upton and Walden and Ranking Members Pallone and Eshoo. We wouldn’t be here today without their hard work and also the work of the staff, particularly David Redl, Kelsey Guyselman, Margaret McCarthy, David Goldman and Tiffany Guarascio. Mr. Speaker, clearly this is an issue that has brought both sides together for the best interests of all Americans. I ask for my colleagues to support the passage of H.R. 805. Thank you and I reserve the balance of my time.” H.R. 2576, the TSCA Modernization Act: “We are on the brink of setting up a common sense approach to protecting people from unsafe chemical exposure that will become the standard of the world,” said Shimkus. “We want our constituents to be safe and we want markets to work. This bill delivers both.” Shimkus full remarks on the TSCA Modernization Act as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, the TSCA Modernization Act has been a long time in the making. We actually started work on it during the last Congress. We’ve held a total of eight hearings and received testimony from a broad range of stakeholders, including the Administration. But most importantly, we’ve worked with each other, Member to Member across the aisle. The bill before you, Mr. Speaker, reflects lessons learned over the course of the last three years in which we’ve worked on TSCA reform. First, the bill is clear and understandable. Despite the highly technical nature of chemical regulation, Members can pick up this bill, read it from beginning to end, and understand what it does and how it works. Second, the bill does not try to be all things for all people. Major sections of TSCA are not amended at all. For example, we leave the process for new chemical review in TSCA Section 5 unchanged because it’s working pretty well right now, and changes could make it worse. The heart of the bill is our approach to regulating chemicals already on the market. Thousands of these chemicals have been in commerce for many years, pose no known risks, and really don’t need to be regulated at all. We leave those alone. But we do allow some existing chemicals to be scientifically evaluated for risk and, if necessary, to have that risk managed through a rule by EPA. Chemicals may be chosen for risk evaluation in one of two ways. Either EPA may select a chemical for risk evaluation based on what EPA knows may pose an unreasonable risk, or the manufacturer may designate a chemical for EPA to evaluate for risk. Now why would a manufacturer invite EPA scrutiny of its product? There are several reasons. First, some interest or even a retailer may be raising concerns about a product and the manufacturer wants to put those concerns to rest. Or one or two states may be thinking about regulating the chemical. The state-by-state approach can spell disaster for someone trying to capture economies of scale in a national market. What better way to put these concerns to rest than to have EPA with the scientific standards that we require, perform an objective risk evaluation? Then the EPA decision on that chemical will apply in all the States. And consumers and the public can have the confidence that the chemical is safe for its intended uses. Another area in the legislation that required careful discussion and negotiation is pre-emption. Of course, we want to make sure national markets are just that, and not a patchwork of restrictions varying state to state. At the same time, we did not want to deny anyone a legitimate cause of action under state tort or contract law. So that is what we said. As long as the State law does not conflict with a Federal ruling, the State action may continue. The bill has strict, but attainable deadlines for action. If EPA initiates a risk evaluation it must finish in 3 years. If a manufacturer initiates one, and includes the information EPA needs to make a decision, EPA should finish in 2 years. Once the risk evaluation is complete, if EPA decides a rule is needed to manage the risk, EPA must propose the rule within a year. The risk evaluation itself only asks, does the chemical present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment? That’s a science question based on a combination of hazard and actual exposure. If there is an unreasonable risk the Agency’s decision on how to manage it is based on many other factors such as cost effectiveness, whether restricting an article will actually reduce exposure, whether replacements are available, and many others. H.R. 2576 permits EPA to regulate articles in those areas where regulation of chemical substances and mixtures alone would not be effective to reduce the identified risk, but requires EPA to be careful in addressing replacement parts that serve a commercially intended function of the original product or are needed to maintain the functionality of the original product. We think this system sets a new standard for quality regulation. Of course, we want to be protected from harm. But we do not want needless, expensive regulation. Consumers want safe choices, not no choice at all. Mr. Speaker, we are on the brink of setting up common sense approach to protecting people from unsafe chemical exposure that will become the standard of the world. We want our constituents to be safe and we want markets to work. This bill delivers both. I reserve the balance of my time.” ###
06.12.2015	Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supports legislation that would allow the Administration to continue trade negotiations in the works since 2009, while preserving Congress’s constitutional authority to review and then approve or reject any trade agreement reached by the President. “Trade Promotion Authority is not a blank check for President Obama,” said Shimkus. “If it were I would never support it. The reality is that Congress has empowered every president since FDR to negotiate trade deals, and every time we’ve reserved our constitutional right to review those agreements before we vote on them. This time is no different: Congress gets the final say.” Some critics of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) have raised concerns about transparency and public input. But under TPA, the general public will have months -- and maybe even years -- to review and weigh in on any agreement before Congress gives it a final up or down vote. Others have suggested that TPA creates some kind of backdoor amnesty for illegal immigrants or that trade agreements undermine U.S. sovereignty. These claims have no basis in reality. No country, under any circumstances, now or in the future, can change U.S. laws. Free trade creates jobs and has long been supported by conservatives. “More than one in five Illinois jobs depend on international trade,” said Shimkus. “Across more than 40 industries -- from agriculture and heavy machinery to petroleum and coal products -- Illinois businesses sell more goods overseas than all but five other states. Ninety percent of these exporters are small businesses with fewer than 500 workers.” “Opening new markets and lowering barriers to trade with consumers around the world increases demand for American-made products, creating jobs and growing our economy here at home,” added Shimkus. House Approves Bost-Davis Provision to Protect American Steel Jobs The House passed separate legislation today that included Congressmen Mike Bost (R, Illinois-12) and Davis’ (R, Illinois-13) American Trade Enforcement Effectiveness Act. This legislation, cosponsored by Shimkus, would improve and expedite enforcement of anti-dumping laws to protect Illinois steel jobs. “We need a more timely litigation system so illegal trade practices can be addressed before they put Americans out of work,” said Shimkus. “I thank Congressmen Bost and Davis for their leadership in getting this bill included in the larger trade enforcement legislation.” ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON – On May 21, the House Energy and Commerce Committee held a markup of H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act and voted the bill out of committee unanimously. This legislation included the widely heralded ADAPT Act (sections 2121-2122), championed by Representatives Gene Green (D-TX) and John Shimkus (R-IL), to establish a streamlined approval pathway for the development and approval of the next generation of antibiotics. Today, Shimkus and Green introduced, H.R. 2629, the Antibiotic Development to Advance Patient Treatment or ADAPT Act as a free standing bill to highlight support for this important provision. “I am proud to be joined by my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee on both sides of the aisle and health policy leaders in support of this critical legislation,” Green said. “Addressing the lack of treatments for drug-resistant infections unites us above partisan, geographic and ideological differences. Without greater investment in new treatments, we face a future that resembles a pre-antibiotic era.” Shimkus said, “The 21st Century Cures Act is a testament to what we can accomplish when we work together. I’m pleased this landmark legislation includes our provision to address the growing threat posed by antibiotic resistant infections. By also introducing the ADAPT Act as a standalone bill, our colleagues will now have the opportunity to register their explicit support for this critical provision of the 21st Century Cures Act.” The ADAPT Act will advance antimicrobial development in order to combat the dire public health threat of “superbugs,” which the Center for Disease Control (CDC) warned of early last year. This language would accelerate the development of innovative treatments by creating a new pathway for antibiotics and antifungals aimed at treating drug-resistant infections in patients with an unmet medical need. The 21st Century Cures Act was voted out of Committee unanimously with a vote of 51-0. It is expected to come before the full House for a vote this month. ###
06.02.2015	WASHINGTON – One of the eight-year-old vehicles belonging to the Richland County Sheriff’s Office is about to drive off to retirement, thanks to a grant from United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has announced. The nine-officer department is receiving $13,800 from Rural Development’s Community Facility Grant program. The funding will go toward the purchase of a replacement for a vehicle that has traversed the county for approximately 140,000 miles. “When police cars reach a certain age, they can present safety issues for both officers and the public,” Shimkus said. “I would like to thank Rural Development for its help to replace an older vehicle and enhance the Sheriff’s Office’s ability to patrol the 360-plus square miles of Richland County.” In addition to the grant, the county will contribute $25,833 to cover the $39,633 total cost of the new vehicle. ###
05.27.2015	DANVILLE, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will wear a Danville Area Community College (DACC) jersey at the Congressional Baseball Game on June 11 at Nationals Park in Washington. Pictured above, Dr. Alice Jacobs, President of DACC, and Dave Harby, Chairman of the DACC Board of Trustees, presented Shimkus with the jersey on Monday. The annual Congressional Baseball Game raises money for The Washington Literacy Council, The Boys and Girls Club of Greater Washington, and the Washington Nationals Dream Foundation. ###
05.27.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized its controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “The White House says the only people who have a reason to oppose this disastrous rule are ‘polluters who knowingly threaten our clean water.’ Well they should tell that to the hardworking farmers and struggling small business owners in my district who see right through this EPA power grab; they should tell it to the state and local governments who spoke out against this federal overreach; and they should tell it to their own Small Business Administration, who urged EPA and the Corps to withdraw the rule last year. This fight is far from over. I’ve cosponsored and voted in support of two bipartisan bills to stop this economically devastating rule, and I will continue to oppose this erosion of Americans’ property rights until the Administration ditches their bad WOTUS rule for good.” ###
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement applauding the inclusion of several medical device provisions in the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act: “First and foremost I want to thank Chairman Upton and Congresswoman DeGette for their leadership and tireless work on this inspirational, life-saving initiative. The product of a truly collaborative and inclusive process, this landmark legislation is a model of what Congress can accomplish on behalf of the American people when we work together.” “When the full committee votes on the 21st Century Cures Act, I’m pleased it will include several medical device provisions that I contributed to this comprehensive bill. These seven provisions, which I’ve also introduced as individual House bills, would speed up FDA’s review and approval processes by reducing the agency’s workload, improving training, and clarifying what data, standards and recommendations they ought to consider. Another provision would allow for more review exemptions for devices needed to treat some of the rarest diseases. Together, these improvements to FDA’s review process will help maintain American leadership in medical device innovation.” A summary of each of the seven Shimkus provisions included in the 21st Century Cures Act is available HERE. ###
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported legislation to address a variety of issues affecting our nation’s 21.2 million veterans. All six bills passed the House on Monday evening with bipartisan support. “Whether it be finding a job or putting a roof over their heads, the challenges facing American servicemen and women don’t end when they return from the battlefield,” said Shimkus. “Unemployment among post-9/11 veterans is higher than the national average and 11 percent of homeless adults previously served in the military.” “Taken together, these six bills help address those problems by expanding options for affordable housing and incentivizing employers to hire more veterans. They also take small but meaningful steps to ensure VA officials are held accountable for the care they provide,” Shimkus added. Summaries of the six House-passed bills, and links to more information on each, are below: 1) H.R. 474 – Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act of 2015 H.R. 474 reauthorizes the Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP) through fiscal year 2020 and clarifies that homeless veterans participating in the Department of Housing and Urban Development-VA Supported Housing program (HUD-VASH), and those transitioning from incarceration, are eligible for HVRP services 2) H.R. 1038 – Ensuring VA Employee Accountability Act H.R. 1038 requires the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to retain a copy of any reprimand or admonishment any employee of the Department receives in that employee’s permanent record for as long as he or she is employed by the Department. Previously, such disciplinary notes were expunged after two to three years, making it difficult for VA managers to properly review employee performance and obtain an accurate picture of their work history. 3) H.R. 1313 – Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act H.R. 1313 would allow a surviving spouse of a veteran who has a service-connected disability rating of 100 percent, or who dies as a result of a service-connected disability, to retain the veteran’s small business status for up to 10 years following death. 4) H.R. 1382 – Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment Act, as amended H.R. 1382 would allow the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, when awarding procurement contracts for good or services, to give preference to government contractors that employ veterans on a full-time basis. 5) H.R. 91 – Veteran’s I.D. Card Act, as amended H.R. 91 requires the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to issue an identification card to certain veterans who: request the card, received an honorable discharge from the Armed Forces; present a copy of the DD-214 form or other official document demonstrating such service; and, who pay a fee needed to cover the cost of the card. The card will serve as proof that the veteran served honorably in the Armed Forces and has appropriate documentation describing such service. 6) H.R. 1816 – Vulnerable Veterans Housing Reform Act of 2015, as amended H.R. 1816 amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to exclude payments made to veterans’ health-care providers by the Department of Veterans’ Affairs for in-home health aid, assisted living, and nursing home expenses from counting toward the veterans’ gross income for purposes of determining eligibility for Section 8 voucher and public housing programs within the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The bill also reduces the aggregate amount of bonuses and awards that may be paid to employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs’ from $360 million to $350 million for each of the fiscal years 2016 to 2020. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today in support of H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. The legislation would ban abortions after 20 weeks with exceptions for rape, incest and to protect the life of the mother. “The U.S. is one of only seven countries that allow elective abortions after 20 weeks,” said Shimkus. “That’s not only immoral, but science now tells us that such late term abortions are painful to babies who are increasingly able to survive premature birth.” H.R. 36 also includes provisions to ensure women receive counseling or medical care for a traumatic event that precipitated their pregnancy prior to obtaining an abortion. By familiarizing victims of sexual assault with their options for medical and emotional support, this legislation empowers women to make informed decisions about their life and the future of their unborn child. More information on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is available HERE.
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today for H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act. The legislation would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw their controversial proposed rule to regulate Waters of the United States (WOTUS). “This bill would help to end the uncertainty surrounding the Waters of the U.S. rulemaking,” said Shimkus. “By requiring EPA and the Corp of Engineers to work with state and local stakeholders to develop a new rule that considers the public comments they’ve already received, as well as the economic and scientific analysis of the first proposed rule, H.R. 1732 creates an opportunity to better define the scope of federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act.” The bill specifically instructs EPA and the Corps of Engineers to: • reach consensus with the states and local governments on defining “waters of the United States,” • maintain the federal-state partnership in implementing the Clean Water Act, • consider state and local input regarding geography, hydrology and legal frameworks, and • solicit recommendations from a broad range of stakeholders who could be impacted either directly or indirectly by the new rule. More information on H.R. 1732 is available HERE. ###
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives quickly began its FY2016 appropriations process this week, agreeing to a balanced budget resolution and passing two of twelve annual spending bills. Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted in support of the House-Senate budget agreement and Military Construction - Veterans Affairs (VA) funding on Thursday, as well as the Energy and Water appropriations bill on Friday. Congressional Balanced Budget Resolution “This budget agreement sets a number of priorities, including a strong national defense, a sustainable safety net for seniors and a growing economy that creates jobs,” said Shimkus. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the budget resolution would expand our economy by $400 billion over 10 years, creating an estimated 1.2 million more jobs by 2025. “Because of this agreement, we’re also now set up to use a process called ‘budget reconciliation,’” explained Shimkus. “Reconciliation is a powerful legislative tool that enables Congress to fully flex its power of the purse to change otherwise mandatory spending. Since Obamacare relies mostly on mandatory rather than discretionary spending, attempts to repeal it through shutdowns and other defunding measures have fallen short in the past. Budget reconciliation, however, gives the Republican-controlled House and Senate our best opportunity yet to dismantle Obamacare -- including all its taxes, regulations and mandates -- later this year.” A detailed explanation of how budget reconciliation works is available HERE. Military Construction - VA, Energy & Water Appropriations The House also passed two of the twelve annual appropriations bills this week. In the Military Construction - VA appropriations bill, the House boosted funding for veterans programs by $3.6 billion -- 5.6 percent over last year. “This bill honors the promise to our nation’s heroes,” said Shimkus. “It helps accelerate VA claims processing, supports the effort to create a modern, seamless VA/Department of Defense electronic health records system, and implements robust oversight measures to hold VA officials accountable.” In the Energy and Water appropriations bill, the House provided a total of $35.4 billion for the Army Corp of Engineers, the Department of Energy and related agencies. “This bill advances a truly all-of-the-above energy strategy,” said Shimkus. “It makes strategic investments in the development of renewable fuels while also improving the safety and efficiency of fossil fuels Americans rely on every day. It also rolls back job-killing regulations like the Administration’s flawed ‘Waters of the U.S.' rule, makes important investments in our inland waterways infrastructure and makes the full Inland Waterways Trust Fund revenues available for navigation projects” A summary of the Military Construction - VA appropriations is available HERE. A summary of the Energy and Water appropriations is available HERE. ###
04.29.2015	MARYVILLE, Illinois – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today that Taylor Roosevelt, a student of Amy Bowser at Edwards County High School, was selected as this year’s Congressional Art Competition winner from the Illinois 15th Congressional District. “Flag with Grandpa” by Taylor Roosevelt “This year’s entries were some of the finest my office has ever received,” said Shimkus. “Among the 45 amazingly talented students who submitted their work, Taylor’s patriotic tribute to her grandfather really stood out to the judges. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to her and all the young artists who participated in this annual contest.” Taylor’s winning pencil sketch, “Flag with Grandpa,” will be displayed for the next year in the pedestrian tunnel that connects the U.S. Capitol with the Cannon House Office Building. The exhibit includes the top student artwork from congressional districts across the country and is seen by hundreds of staff and visitors each day. Left to Right: Amy Bowser, Edwards County High School Art Teacher; Tom Moore, Taylor’s grandfather from West Salem; Taylor Roosevelt; Deb Detmers, Congressman Shimkus’s District Director Four honorable mentions from this year’s competition are posted on Congressman Shimkus’s Facebook Page and will be displayed in his Maryville, Harrisburg, Danville and Effingham District Offices. This year’s honorable mentions are: Sarah Thoele, Teutopolis High School, charcoal, “Farm Life” Lacy Doerr, Mt. Carmel High School, colored pencil, “Jeune” Julie Wente, Teutopolis High School, acrylic painting, “The Woods” Joe Perez, Charleston High School, photography, “Charleston Lake Sunset” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. ###
04.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) received the National Association of Manufacturers Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence at the Lyondellbasell Tuscola Plant last week. The award honors Members of Congress who demonstrate support for policies that enhance the ability of U.S. manufacturers to succeed in the global economy. “America is still a manufacturing powerhouse,” said Shimkus. “In the past year, I’ve had the opportunity to visit a number of manufacturing facilities in my district including the FreightCar America factory in Danville, the North American Lighting plant in Paris, and just last week I received this award at the LyondellBasell facility in Tuscola. The workers and management at every facility I’ve toured are proud of what they make and I’m honored to fight for them on Capitol Hill.” “Manufacturing in Illinois and across the country is making a comeback,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “Manufacturers are growing the economy and creating high-paying jobs in a sector that adds $1.32 to the economy for every $1 spent. Representative Shimkus understands that leaders in Washington must advance policies that will continue to fuel this economic growth and has consistently supported manufacturers through his votes in Congress.” A list of key votes in the 113th Congress considered for the Manufacturing Legislative Excellence Award can be found here. The list include votes to repeal Obamacare (H.R. 45), the WOTUS Regulatory Overreach Protection Act (H.R. 5078), and the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act (H.R. 4457). PHOTO: Left to Right: Tony Hobbs, Plant Manager at DTE Tuscola LLC; Ben Hoff, LyondellBasell Tuscola Operations Manager; Palmer Giddings, LyondellBasell Director of North American Propylene Oxide and Derivatives; Todd Wellbaum, LyondellBasell Tuscola Maintenance Manager; Sam Smolik, LyondellBasell Senior Vice President Americas Manufacturing and Refining Operations; Rep. John Shimkus; Mike Thomas, LyondellBasell Tuscola Operator; Dustin Olson, LyondellBasell Tuscola Site Manager; Danniger Smith, LyondellBasell Tuscola HSEQT Manager; Joel Heilman, LyondellBasell Federal Government Affairs Manager; Kristie Mechling, LyondellBasell Senior Accounting Manager.
04.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) today questioning this month’s Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) planning resource auction that resulted in significantly higher electricity capacity prices for central and southern Illinois. Congressmen Mike Bost (R, Illinois-12) and Rodney Davis (R, Illinois-13) joined Shimkus on the letter. The letter notes that capacity prices for MISO Zone 4, which includes the majority of Illinois, unexpectedly skyrocketed “from $16.75 per MW-day in 2014-2015, to $150 per MW-day for 2015-2016.” “Not only is this a 900 percent increase from last year,” Shimkus said, “but this year’s capacity rate for our region is 40 times the price set for neighboring zones. Illinois ratepayers deserve to know whether all the rules for this auction were properly followed and, if so, what can be done to prevent similar rate spikes moving forward.” “A rate increase of this magnitude is harmful to working families, small businesses and manufacturers in Southern Illinois, especially since it won’t apply to neighboring jurisdictions,” said Bost. “I look forward to the FERC’s response to this inquiry.” “Illinois families and businesses have a right to know that this auction was done properly and followed all the rules before being forced to pay higher utility bills,” said Davis. “Given the vast discrepancies from previous auctions, I want to make sure the proper review took place and I look forward to FERC's response.” The extent to which the capacity rate increase will affect individual ratepayers is not yet fully known. State officials have also questioned the auction in a separate letter to MISO. A copy of the Shimkus, Bost and Davis letter can be found HERE. ###
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for legislation today that would permanently repeal the estate tax, more commonly referred to as the death tax. The legislation, H.R. 1105, passed the House 240-179. “It’s long past time for the federal government to stop standing in the way of Americans who want to pass down their family farm to future generations,” said Shimkus. “The death tax hurts our rural economy by robbing us of these vital pillars of the community. It stifles growth, discourages responsible saving and ruins family businesses. It’s time to bury the death tax for good and stop punishing families for living the American Dream.” In a letter supporting H.R. 1105, the Illinois Farm Bureau noted that “land values have doubled and even tripled over the past decade and all it takes is 329 of the most productive acres in central Illinois and 571 of the most productive acres in southern Illinois to reach the current estate tax exemption level. The 2012 U.S. Census of Agriculture puts the average Illinois farm at 476 acres.” More information on H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act can be found HERE. ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, Reps. Mike Bost (R, Illinois-12) John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) and Rodney Davis (R, Illinois-13) issued statements concerning the temporary closure of the Granite City Plant by U.S. Steel. The plant will idle for an undetermined amount time on May 28th, affecting 2,080 workers. “I am saddened by the announcement and the impact it will have on so many hardworking steel families in Southern Illinois, said Bost. “Granite City Works is a critical driver of the Metro East economy, and we must do all we can to ensure the closure is, indeed, temporary. Since the announcement, I have met with the heads of U.S. Steel and the United Steelworkers Union to offer any help I can provide at this difficult time. As soon as I get home this week, I will be meeting personally with elected officials and the steelworkers impacted by this decision.” “My heart goes out to the Granite City mill workers and their families,” said Shimkus. “These men and women, along with thousands more steelworkers around the country, deserve my personal and our collective support. I’ve stood with them for more than a decade in the fight against foreign steel dumping and I still do. As we await word on the future of the Granite City Works, I’ll continue to fight for workers by supporting policies that grow our economy and restore demand for American-made steel.” "I am very disappointed by U.S. Steel's decision to temporarily close their plant in Granite City and my thoughts are with those workers and their families who may lose their job as a result," said Davis. "My office has been in contact with representatives from U.S. Steel about this issue and we will work with state and federal officials to ensure those being displaced have all the tools at their disposal to find new employment or seek other opportunities. As a member of the Congressional Steel Caucus, I will continue to work with the steel industry on ways to protect and grow jobs here in Illinois." ### UPDATE: Resource List from Madison County Department of Community Development.
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Rodney Davis (R, Illinois-13), Cheri Bustos (D, Illinois-17), John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), Mike Bost (R, Illinois-12), and Adam Kinzinger (R, Illinois-16) today announced with U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D, Illinois) and Mark Kirk (R, Illinois) the reintroduction of the Fairness in Federal Disaster Declarations Act to reform the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster declaration process and bring fairness to our small communities in larger states like Illinois. “Time and time again we've seen FEMA deny downstate communities from receiving federal assistance following storms,” said Davis. “With the most recent examples being Gifford and Washington, but just a few years ago Harrisburg in Southern Illinois was denied as well. It simply isn't right when a storm leaves behind damage in Missouri, Illinois, and Kentucky and the only communities to be denied federal assistance are in Illinois. The current system puts downstate and rural communities at a strong disadvantage, and that has to change.” “Changes to FEMA’s disaster declaration process can’t come soon enough for communities across Illinois and I am glad members of the Illinois delegation have joined together in support of this legislation,” said Durbin. “We don’t know when the next severe weather event will strike, but we should be able to count on the federal government to provide assistance when it does. It’s time to fix the broken metrics that FEMA uses to determine disaster assistance and bring some fairness back into the system so that people in Illinois are not unfairly punished for living in a populous state.” "Communities like Washington, Illinois, that have been devastated by natural disasters should not be ineligible for aid just because FEMA's methodology is outdated," Kirk said. "Having seen firsthand the damage that the 2013 tornadoes caused this community, I have continued to urge FEMA to reevaluate their methodology for determining aid, and will continue to work with my bipartisan colleagues to ensure that families are not stuck without help when it is most needed." "The communities across our region of Illinois should receive fair treatment when it comes to qualifying for federal disaster assistance," said Bustos. "This bipartisan effort will help ensure downstate Illinois communities are competing on a level playing field with other communities across the country when it comes to qualifying for the FEMA support they need to recover from natural disasters." “Downstate Illinois is disadvantaged when disasters strike, due to our population upstate," said Shimkus. "This legislation helps to address that problem and would allow communities like Gifford and Brookport, who were hit by tornadoes two years ago, a chance to be eligible for FEMA Public Assistance. A million dollars to Chicago may not matter much, but it does to my constituents.” “After a disaster strikes, the stress and uncertainty of those residents that are directly impacted weighs heavily on each person and worrying about not receiving Federal assistance just makes matters worse," said Bost. "Every Illinoisan and every community in our state deserve fair treatment in deciding Federal assistance instead of relying on arbitrary formulas that are beyond the control of disaster victims.” "When it comes to helping communities attempting to recover from natural disasters, the formula for distributing federal disaster resources should be based on where the need is greatest, not arbitrary population numbers," said Kinzinger. "This bipartisan legislation will fix the flawed process that unfairly penalizes smaller towns devastated by disasters and ensure they are fairly considered for FEMA Public Assistance." According to a report by the Congressional Research Service (CRS), FEMA already takes into account several factors when determining the need for Public and Individual Assistance. However, there is currently no standard to determine which factor is more important than another, which leads to a highly subjective and uncertain process that leaves states and communities in limbo for weeks as their application is considered. The Fairness in Federal Disaster Declarations Act of 2015 will provide more certainty and fairness to states and small communities impacted by disasters by giving FEMA a clearer, more substantive formula when evaluating disaster areas. This bill assigns a specific weight to each of the factors already used by FEMA, and adds other economic factors for the agency to consider when determining whether or not a disaster area should receive federal assistance. Below is the formula breakdown for public assistance specified in the legislation and a description of each factor currently used by FEMA: Estimated cost of the assistance (10 percent). Currently, this is the key component to FEMA's declaration process, calculated at $1.35 times the state population. This legislation will make it less of a factor by weighing it significantly lower than localized impacts. Localized impacts (40 percent). The legislation would put greater weight on the damage assessment on a specific area, as opposed to statewide. Insurance coverage in force (10 percent). Currently, FEMA deducts the amount of insurance that should be held by a government and non-profits from the total eligible amount. Hazard mitigation (10 percent). If the cost of damage falls short of the cost of assistance threshold due to mitigation measures that lessened the disaster's impact, FEMA will take this into consideration by doing a cost-benefit analysis. Recent multiple disasters (10 percent). FEMA would take any disasters occurring within the previous 12 months into consideration and evaluate the funds that the state has committed and their impact on the state and its residents. Programs of other Federal assistance (10 percent). FEMA would take into consideration whether or not other agencies will be contributing. Other economic circumstances (10 percent). Currently these are factors not considered by FEMA. This legislation would require FEMA to consider the local assessable tax base and local sales tax, the median income in comparison to the state, the poverty rate in comparison to the state, and the unemployment rate of the state in comparison to the national rate. The formula breakdown for individual assistance would be: Concentration of damages - 20 percent; Trauma - 20 percent; Special populations - 20 percent; Voluntary agency assistance - 10 percent; Insurance - 20 percent; Average amount of individual assistance by state - 5 percent; Economic declarations - 5 percent. The legislation will be retroactive to include all storms occurring since 2012 in which states requested federal assistance but were denied. ###
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after House passage of a FY2016 Budget Resolution that calls for $5.5 trillion in spending cuts and a simpler, fairer tax code to balance the federal budget in under a decade: “The annual budget resolution is at the core of everything else we do in Congress. It’s our vision statement that sets priorities and guides spending decisions for the remainder of the appropriations process. That process is important to fully utilize our constitutional power of the purse, but it’s the priorities this budget sets that really make a difference to the American people. Those priorities are your priorities: a strong national defense, a sustainable safety-net for seniors, and an opportunity society where anyone who works hard and lives responsibly can achieve their American dream.” Specifically, the budget calls for: A boost in national defense spending; A simpler, fairer tax code to promote job creation and grow the economy; $5.5 trillion in spending cuts – more than any previous House budget proposal; A full repeal of Obamacare – including all of the law’s taxes, regulations, mandates and Medicare cuts; and A return to federalism that gives states a greater role in Medicaid, nutrition assistance, education and other programs. More details on the budget can be found HERE. ###
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D, California-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, along with Reps. John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) and Mike Doyle (D, Pennsylvania-14) announced today reintroduction of a bipartisan bill to allow for more collaborative and effective meetings at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The FCC Collaboration Act of 2015 (H.R. 1396) allows for a bipartisan majority of commissioners to meet for collaborative discussions so long as they disclose such meetings within two business days and comply with the Office of General Counsel. The House Members were joined by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D, Minnesota) and Dean Heller (R, Nevada), who introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “The FCC has huge issues to tackle, representing some of the nation’s most pressing communications challenges, yet the current ‘Sunshine’ rule restricts commissioners from collaborating freely and effectively,” said Eshoo. “Simple collaboration, discussion of issues, and shared expertise outside an official setting are essential in order for the Commission to keep up with the rapidly changing telecommunications landscape.” “Expecting the FCC to fulfill its mission without allowing the commissioners to have an open dialogue is a set up for disappointment and delay,” said Shimkus. “Allowing for greater interaction among the commissioners would enable the FCC to more efficiently carry out its responsibilities and more effectively consider the costs and benefits of proposed regulations.” Doyle added, “We all agree that it makes sense for members of the FCC to collaborate, provided the discussion is transparent to the public. This bill will help the FCC operate in a more efficient manner without sacrificing transparency. I am pleased to join my colleagues Representatives Shimkus and Eshoo and Senators Heller and Klobuchar in reintroducing the FCC Collaboration Act.” Background: Ever since the Government in Sunshine Act of 1997 passed, stakeholders have called on Congress to adopt measures that allow agency officials to conduct private meetings so long as there were safeguards in place. Under this bill, three or more commissioners may meet in a closed door meeting with three members of a Federal-State Joint Board so long as the meeting is: Bipartisan; No official action is taken; No outside parties are present; and An attorney from the FCC’s Office of General Counsel is present to monitor the deliberations and disclose a summary of those discussions within two business days of such a meeting. The FCC Collaboration Act of 2015 modifies the “Sunshine” rule to promote collaboration between commissioners and streamline decision making. The text of the bill can be viewed HERE. ###
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressmen John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) and Rodney Davis (R, Illinois-13) entered a statement into the permanent Congressional Record today in recognition of the State Champion Moweaqua Central A&M Girls Basketball Team. The statement congratulates the Raiders on their 51-41 victory in the Class 1A State Championship game. It specifically recognizes Coach Tom Dooley, Assistant Coaches Todd Rork and Mike Garner, Athletic Director Jess Lehman, Athletic Trainer Timothy Berger as well as team members Ryan Dooley, Taylor Jordan, Kaylee Collins, Kaley Hennings, Kaylan Schinzler, Kayla Gibson, Jorji Sparrgrove, Olivia Jordan, Mikah Maples, Shelby Dailey, Gabby Cole, Katie Conlin, Taryn Sams, Morgan Damery, and Abigail Hilton. The congressmen both look forward to the continued success of the Moweaqua Central A&M Raiders and extend their best wishes for another outstanding season next year. ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) joined more than 235 Members of Congress in a bipartisan letter expressing strong concern to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Director B. Todd Jones about the Obama Administration’s plan to ban a popular bullet used for the AR-15. “The AR-15 is a popular choice among millions of Americans for both sport shooting and home protection,” said Shimkus. “But ATF’s new regulatory ‘Framework’ creates a backdoor ban on the M855 or ‘green tip’ ammo commonly used in the AR-15. This is an unacceptable, unconstitutional infringement on the Second Amendment rights of law abiding citizens.” In the letter, the Members of Congress write that the ATF’s “Framework” “establishes an unduly restrictive standard, does not comport with the letter or spirit of the law, and will interfere with Second Amendment rights by disrupting the market for ammunition that law abiding Americans use for sporting and other legitimate purposes.” The letter also expresses concern that the agency’s “Framework” was not published in the federal register, which is required when the Executive Branch creates a new rule. The letter and list of Members who signed it can be found HERE. ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a Joint Meeting of Congress today: “For the United States, preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon is an issue of safety and stability. For Israel, it’s an issue of survival. So while President Obama negotiates away decades of effective sanctions, Congress and the American people should hear what’s at stake from our loyal ally and longtime friend. Prime Minister Netanyahu’s unique perspective on the nuclear negotiations, and the broader threat from Islamic extremism, was well received on Capitol Hill. I only hope that President Obama was listening to our friend’s warnings as well.” ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) commented today on the Federal Communication Commission’s fundamentally flawed approach to net neutrality. “The real tragedy in President Obama and Chairman Wheeler’s approach to net neutrality is that they lack the imagination to see beyond the status quo,” Shimkus said. “Instead of debating how to divvy up today’s existing bandwidth, we should be talking about ways to incentivize the build-out of broad­band infrastructure and increase innovation-driven competition in the Internet service market.” Rather than looking toward the future, the FCC today reached into the past, back to their telegram-era regulatory authority, to reclassify broadband Internet service as a public utility. This approach not only would grant the federal government sweeping new authority over Internet traffic and open the door to additional taxes, it would disincentive the development and deployment of faster Internet service nationwide. “Reclassifi­cation of broadband service won’t create more bandwidth—just more lobbyists, litigation and loopholes,” Shimkus added. “The only path forward that protects consumers from blocking and throttling, without stifling innovation or delaying build-out, requires action by Congress.” To that end, the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation have released draft legislation to provide clear rules of the road for open and unfettered access to the Internet. This draft legislation guarantees that Internet users will continue to be the decision makers for the content they want, while ensuring that innovation and investment continue to fuel the robust future of the Internet. Most importantly, this legislation avoids lengthy court battles that will surely come from the FCC’s action today, bringing certainty to consumers and job creators alike. ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement today in response to President Obama’s veto of the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act: “With his veto today, President Obama put the narrow wishes of his far-left base before the will of the American people and a bipartisan majority in Congress. The president’s uncompromising objection to this pipeline not only hurts the American job-seekers and energy consumers who would benefit from its construction, but his continued obstruction also undermines an important relationship with our closest ally and diminishes the gains we’ve made toward greater energy security.” ###
02.20.2015	MARYVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting entries for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. The contest is open to high school students in the 15th Congressional District. Entries are due by April 18. “This is an annual competition that we are pleased to participate in,” Shimkus said. “The winning artwork from my district will be displayed in Washington, DC, in a tunnel that connects the Cannon House Office Building to the Capitol. Hundreds of staff and visitors will see the artwork each day.” Acceptable mediums include: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, photographs, computer-generated art, and mixed media. Artwork must be two-dimensional, no larger than 28 inches by 28 inches by four inches including the frame, cannot weigh more than 15 pounds, and must be original in content. Entry forms and a full list of guidelines are available at shimkus.house.gov/art. The winning entry will be chosen by a panel from the district and the finalists will also be displayed on my website and Facebook page. The winning artist is then invited to participate in a ceremony in Washington, and Southwest Airlines will fly him or her and a guest out to DC for free. Art teachers and participants may contact Deb Detmers, at 618-288-7190 or via email at deb.detmers@mail.house.gov, for more information. ###
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported bipartisan tax relief today that would permanently extend the Section 179 expensing option for small businesses and farmers. “The annual, last minute decision by Congress to extend a slew of expiring tax provisions that millions of job-creators rely on creates an unnecessary amount of economic uncertainty,” Shimkus said. “By permanently extending the Section 179 expensing provision, small businesses and farmers will be able to invest in new equipment or property with the confidence that they’ll be able to write off up to $500,000 of the cost on their tax returns.” This legislation “provides an incentive for farmers to invest in their operations through the purchase of such capital items like tractors, combines, drainage tile, grain bins, and buildings,” said the Illinois Farm Bureau in a letter supporting the bill. “The provision allows farmers to better manage their cash flow and helps support jobs.” The America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act is supported by over 170 organizations, including the National Association of Manufacturers, National Association of Home Builders, National Federation of Independent Business, and U. S. Chamber of Commerce. ###
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported legislation, that will now go to the President, to address the growing veteran suicide epidemic. H.R. 203, the Clay Hunt SAV Act, unanimously passed both the House and the Senate. “As many as 22 American veterans take their own lives each day,” said Shimkus. “We must do more to help these men and women, who have already sacrificed so much on our behalf, through the pain and darkness that far too often ends in tragedy. This legislation is an important step toward better mental health services for our nation’s heroes and I urge the President to sign it into law.” The Clay Hunt SAV Act: Requires an independent third party to conduct an annual evaluation of the mental health care and suicide prevention programs within the Department of Veterans Affairs; Directs the VA to publish a website to provide information on all the mental health care services available to veterans in their respective Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN); and Establishes pilot programs and extends eligibility to improve both availability and access to mental health services for veterans. More information is available HERE.
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON – A dozen House Republicans registered their support today for legislation that would prohibit the Obama Administration from relinquishing longstanding U.S. oversight of the global Internet Domain Name System (DNS) pending a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report to Congress. The legislation, the Domain Openness Through Continues Oversight Matters (DOTCOM) Act, was authored by Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15). “The premise of this legislation is simple,” explained Shimkus: “Trust but verify. Before the Administration makes an irreversible decision, the American people deserve reassurance that the global Internet will remain free from censorship and manipulation by authoritarian regimes. Requiring a non-partisan review before the transition moves forward is a commonsense way to guarantee that.” “While I can understand that the U.S. Government envisioned having a temporary role in the IANA functions, I am not certain that now is the time for this type of transition” said Congressman Joe Barton (R, Texas-06). “I am not convinced that ICANN is yet ready to develop a credible plan, and I believe that Congressional oversight is needed. I would rather have a better understanding of the realities of the multi-stakeholder model before taking the risky move of simply allowing it to move forward.” “The Internet must be protected,” said Congressman Blake Farenthold (R, Texas-27). “We cannot allow individuals or foreign entities to stifle the open and uncensored Internet. We wouldn’t open up our television networks to being controlled by countries who censor free speech like North Korea or Russia. So why are we doing that with the Internet and ICANN? If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.” “The DOTCOM Act will protect the Internet and its critical functions from foreign government intrusion,” said Congressman Leonard Lance (R, New Jersey-07). "I applaud Rep. Shimkus for his leadership and efforts to preserve Internet openness and freedom for all Americans." “As the Internet Domain Name System transitions from NTIA oversight to a global, multi-stakeholder governance model, we must make certain that it is protected,” said Congressman Bob Latta (R, Ohio-05). “The DOTCOM ACT will safeguard our national security interests and allow citizens to continue to freely navigate the Internet.” “One of the greatest examples of our American Exceptionalism is the Internet, which I describe as the single greatest economic machine created in at least the last 50 years,” said Congressman Todd Rokita (R, Indiana-04). “It must be protected. In fact, it’s in our national interest to do so. That is why I so strongly support this legislation and will work hard to move it forward.” BACKGROUND: The United States, through the National Telecommunications Information Administration (NTIA) at the Department of Commerce, currently oversees the matching of Internet Protocol (IP) addresses (173.194.33.7, for example) with the corresponding domain name (google.com, in this example). This matching process, part of the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), is administered for the U.S. by the California-based Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) and makes navigating the Internet possible for the average user. Last year, NTIA announced their intention to transition their oversight role to a global, multi-stakeholder community – providing an opening for foreign governments to play a larger role in DNS management. The Domain Openness Through Continued Oversight Matters (DOTCOM) Act would prohibit NTIA from terminating their contract with ICANN pending a GAO report to Congress. That report would include a discussion and analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the transition and address the national security concerns raised by relinquishing U.S. oversight. As reintroduced, the DOTCOM Act now also directs GAO to consider cybersecurity concerns in light of a spear phishing attack on ICANN earlier this year. In the 113th Congress, the DOTCOM Act was approved by the Energy and Commerce Committee and passed by the House as an amendment to the NDAA. NOTE: The twelve original cosponsors are Representatives: Joe Barton (TX), Leonard Lance (NJ), Bob Latta (OH), Larry Buchson (IN), Kevin Cramer (ND), Blake Farenthold (TX), John Kline (MN), Billy Long (MO), David McKinley (WV), Richard Nugent (FL), Todd Rokita (IN), and Greg Walden (OR). ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. “The reality is that the President’s upending of our health insurance system has hurt more Americans than it has helped,” said Shimkus. “On a family level, millions of Americans have lost plans they liked and were promised they could keep while others have been forced to pay hundreds of dollars more just to keep seeing their doctor,” Shimkus continued. “For employees and their employers, Obamacare’s costly mandates have led to cutbacks in hours, wages and hiring.” Prior to today’s full repeal vote, Shimkus also supported House-passed legislation to reverse some of the health care law’s most harmful provisions including: H.R. 30, the Save American Workers Act to repeal the 30-hour definition of full time employee in Obamacare for purposes of the employer mandate and replace it with a 40-hour definition for full time employee. H.R. 33, the Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act to prohibit the IRS from counting volunteer emergency responders toward Obamacare’s employer mandate. H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act to establish a permanent, government-wide prohibition against taxpayer funded abortions and to provide consumers more information about abortion coverage in the health insurance plans they’re required to purchase under Obamacare. ###
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is pleased to announce that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announced funding for the Kaskaskia Watershed Study in both its fiscal year 2015 work plans and its fiscal year 2016 budget. The Kaskaskia Watershed Study will have a $50,000 allocation in the current 2015 fiscal year. The President’s budget, released today, asks for $500,000 in fiscal year 2016. “The Kaskaskia Watershed Study was previously authorized by Congress, but funding has always been the holdup in getting this comprehensive study of the river accomplished,” Shimkus noted. “The local stakeholders have been very supportive and have really been the impetus in getting these funds allocated.” The Corps announced ten studies, which were all previously unfunded, will receive funding under the appropriations law passed in December. The support of cost-sharing partners was specifically noted in the Corps’ news release. Shimkus added, “Heartland Conservancy previously issued a guide for studying the Kaskaskia River and found five Business, Industry, and Agriculture Recommendations, nine Habitat Recommendations, nine Human Resources Recommendations, seven Hydrology Recommendations, eight Recreation Recommendations, five Research and Monitoring Recommendations, and five Water Quality Recommendations. That certainly indicates the potential for a wide-ranging Corps study on all aspects of the river.” ###
01.28.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced today he is an original cosponsor of legislation to prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from expanding their jurisdiction over bodies of water that Congress never intended for regulation under the Clean Water Act (CWA). “Many farmers I’ve talked to remain concerned that EPA and the Corps of Engineers will move forward with their proposal to regulate everything from creeks and streams to ditches and man-made ponds under the Clean Water Act,” Shimkus said. “Such a move is not only outside their authority, but could put costly compliance burdens on families and even threaten a landowner’s right to make decisions about his or her property.” The Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act of 2015 is identical to legislation supported by Shimkus and passed by the House last year in a bipartisan vote of 262 - 152. That bill was not brought to a vote in the Senate. ###
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted today for H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015. “For decades, Congress has relied on various amendments to spending bills -- most notably the Hyde Amendment -- to prohibit taxpayer funded abortions,” explained Shimkus. “Those amendments must be passed year after year to keep the policy in place. This legislation would establish a more permanent, government-wide prohibition against taxpayer funded or subsidized abortions and insurance plans that cover them.” H.R. 7 also seeks to provide consumers more information about abortion coverage in the health insurance plans they’re required to purchase under Obamacare. “I have repeatedly asked this administration to provide a comprehensive list of insurance plans offered on the federal exchanges that provide abortion coverage,” said Shimkus. “No American business owner or consumer should be required by law to pay for an insurance policy that would violate their constitutional right of conscience. At minimum, consumers should know what they’re buying.” On this 42nd Anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision, Congressman Shimkus also recorded the following video message thanking all those who attended today’s March for Life in Washington, DC. For the 114th Congress, Congressman Shimkus is a cosponsor of several other pro-life bills including: H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and H.R. 217, the Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act. He also plans to cosponsor the Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act and the Health Care Conscience Rights Act when they are introduced. ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s State of the Union Address this evening: “President Obama talked a good game tonight about growing our economy and strengthening the middle class. Unfortunately, the measures he proposed would instead grow government and weaken America’s ability to compete in the global economy. From energy to education, the president’s policies undermine, rather than enhance, the free enterprise system that has given Americans the opportunity to pursue their dreams for generations. “Consider his energy policies for example. The president conveniently forgets that it was the private sector, assuming a financial risk to extract previously unreachable resources on private lands, that crowned the United States the world’s largest oil and gas producer. Tens of thousands of Americans have found jobs and millions more are seeing relief at the pump, and in their home heating bills this winter, as a direct result of that private sector action. “But what does President Obama propose? Cap-and-trade rules that would drive up electricity costs -- especially in the Midwest -- and compromise the reliability of our entire electric grid; a veto for privately funded, job-creating energy infrastructure projects like Keystone XL; and seemingly endless taxpayer-backed credits and subsidies for his friends like Solyndra. “Or consider the President’s education proposal. Over 10 million middle class families have worked hard to save over $12 billion in special savings accounts to pay for higher education expenses. But what does President Obama propose? Taxing these previously tax-free savings accounts to pay for ‘free’ community college. “I’m pro-education and I’m pro-community college, but unlike the president, I recognize that there are folks, both rich and poor, who made the hard choice to plan and save for a college education. It’s unfair -- and sends a terrible message to our children about savings and responsibility -- for the government to now take and redistribute what those families worked for years to build. “It wasn’t all bad though. One area in which I can see common ground with President Obama is on the important topic of advancing life-saving innovations in medical and pharmaceutical technology. Through the Energy and Commerce Committee’s 21st Century Cures initiative, I’ve been actively engaged in bipartisan discussions about what Congress can do to accelerate the discovery and approval of new drugs and treatments. I look forward to the administration’s engagement on this issue as we continue those discussions and draft legislation.” ###
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Illinois Congressmen John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), Mike Bost (R, Illinois-12), and Rodney Davis (R, Illinois-13) sent a letter to National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) Director Robert Cardillo yesterday requesting his agency consider the St. Clair County site near Scott Air Force Base for the new NGA West Facilities. “Illinois represents approximately one-quarter of the greater St. Louis metropolitan area and nearly 30 percent of current NGA West employees,” the congressmen wrote. “This site adjacent to a military base is the most logical, easiest to secure, with the best transportation options – including public mass transit, and with the best fit into a community among the choices available.” The full text of the letter can be found HERE. “The NGA is a critical part of the U.S. intelligence community, bringing together imagery and analysis to create the clearest possible window to the world for national security decision makers,” added Shimkus. “I have no doubt that the Scott AFB community would be thrilled to welcome the intelligence professionals at NGA West to a new home on our side of the Mississippi.” “Relocating the NGA West Facility adjacent to Scott AFB would be a big win and a common sense step forward for intelligence employees who call Southern Illinois home,” said Bost. “At a time when our national security is at increased risk, the NGA ensures we have the tools necessary to keep Americans safe, both at home and abroad.” “Scott Air Force Base has played a crucial role in our national security for decades and the addition of the NGA would only bolster the base’s presence by pairing one of the nation’s top intelligence agencies with military leaders,” said Davis. “Out of the available locations, Scott Air Force Base can offer the security, telecommunications connections, and proximity and availability of personnel for recruitment that will allow the NGA to best perform its role in our nation’s defense.” ###
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Keeping the promise he made in December to aggressively confront President Obama’s executive actions on immigration, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for legislation today that not only defunds the president’s previous executive actions, but prohibits the use of funds to enact similar immigration policies in the future. “I have never supported President Obama’s unilateral approach to immigration reform,” said Shimkus. “Today’s votes on amendments to the DHS funding bill – including two key amendments offered by Representatives Aderholt (R, Alabama-04) and Blackburn (R, Tennessee-07) – put the brakes on the president’s unconstitutional actions while giving our homeland security officials the resources they need to secure our borders.” Specifically related to the immigration debate, the DHS appropriations bill includes: $10.7 billion for Customs and Border Protection (CBP), an increase of $118 million from last year, to support the largest operational force in history – 21,370 border patrol agents and 23,775 CBP officers; and $5.96 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), an increase of $689.4 million from from last year, including $3.4 billion for ICE detention programs sustaining 34,000 detention beds and increasing family detention by 3,732 beds. Additionally, the bill explicitly prohibits agencies from using funds from any source to comply with: the executive actions announced on November 20, 2014 to grant deferred action to certain illegal immigrants; four of Morton Memos on prosecutorial discretion and immigration enforcement priorities issued in 2011 and 2012 that effectively prevent certain classes of illegal immigrants from being removed from the country; and new or previously denied deferred action on childhood arrivals (DACA) applications. More information on the five immigration amendments, as well as a summary of the underlying DHS appropriations bill, is available HERE. ###
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported legislation this week to protect volunteer firefighters and emergency responders from being punished under Obamacare. Without this change to the law, the IRS could count these volunteers toward Obamacare’s employer mandate, potentially saddling local governments and fire departments with unsustainable financial burdens and threatening public safety. “The brave men and women who volunteer to respond in dangerous situations shouldn’t have to worry that a flawed federal law will keep them from serving their communities in times of need,” said Shimkus. “Much like the House has already done to reverse Obamacare’s incentives to cut hours and slow hiring, I’ll continue voting to dismantle this disaster, piece by piece if I have to, before it does irreparable damage to our health care system and our economy.” The International Association of Fire Chiefs has warned that over 780,000 volunteer firefighters may be subject to Obamacare’s employer mandate, which could lead to volunteer fire departments closing or significantly curtailing their emergency response activities. This legislation, approved unanimously by the House of Representatives on Monday, would offer certainty and stability to volunteer fire departments by explicitly exempting these organizations from the employer mandate. ###
01.08.2015	MARYVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is again asking constituents for participation in his “Valentines for Heroes” program. The Congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution throughout the region to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands of valentines have come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” Shimkus said. “Constituents have been overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present. “School classes, church youth groups, homeschoolers, and individuals have all helped brighten a soldier or veterans day,” he added. This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 9 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062 City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832 The few basic rules to follow are to return signed valentines without addressing them to a specific person; without signing your last name or including your address; and without sealing them in individual envelopes. All valentines are reviewed for content and appropriateness before distribution. ###
01.07.2015	Maryville, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is announcing his 14 nominations to the military service academies. The Congressman nominates, and then the academies themselves make the final determination whether a nominee receives an appointment to attend that academy. "The academies look at academics, leadership, and physical fitness in order to assure a young person is well-rounded and able to cope with the uniqueness of attending a military school," Shimkus said. "As a West Point graduate, I am very proud of these young men and women for considering an academy for their college choice and am grateful for the honor of being able to nominate them.” The four military academies that require Congressional nominations are: United States Military Academy, West Point, New York; United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colorado; United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland; and United States Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, New York. High school juniors, college students, or current members of the military who are residents of the 15th District and wish to attend an academy beginning in 2016 can request a nomination packet by writing Congressman John Shimkus, 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. Those packets with complete requirements will be sent out in late summer. “Potential nominees complete applications with both my office and online with each individual academy they wish to pursue,” Shimkus added. “I again offer my congratulations to these outstanding students.” Congressman John Shimkus recently held a reception for his nominees to the military academies. Photos from the event are below: Pictured above, from left to right: Nicholas Czar of Highland, Eric Finch of Collinsville, Shimkus, and Ben Foppe of Jamestown Pictured above, from left to right: Nick Poe of St. Joseph, Jarod Noel of Danville, Shimkus, Benjamin Ford of Henning, and Austin Myers of Champaign. Pictured above: Samantha Landers of Atwood and Shimkus. Pictured above, left to right: Tyler Riechmann of Okawville, Shimkus, Ben Foppe of Jamestown, and Grace Chiarolanza of Aviston. ###
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following overview the constituent services his offices provided last year. Shimkus will be sworn in as a Member of 114th Congress at noon today in Washington. “Serving the people of my home state in Congress is one of my life’s greatest joys,” said Shimkus. “Each day I walk into the U.S. Capitol Building, I’m honored and deeply humbled by the great trust my constituents have placed in me to represent their interests and values in Washington. As I prepare to once again take the oath of office today, I’m excited to build upon the work my staff and I have done in years past as I continue serving and representing the people of downstate Illinois.” In 2014, Congressman Shimkus and his staff: Answered more than 25,000 pieces of mail, e-mail, faxes, and calls; Helped nearly 650 constituents navigate the federal bureaucracy through casework; Hosted two telephone town hall meetings, calling nearly 45,000 constituents; Maintained district offices in Harrisburg, Maryville, Effingham and Danville; Visited constituents and businesses in all 33 counties of the 15th District, holding Open Office Hours in 20 locations and offering Traveling Help Desk services in 32 locations where we do not have permanent offices; Emailed weekly updates to more than 13,000 newsletter subscribers; Provided more than 80 American flags to constituents; Conducted more than 150 tours of the U.S. Capitol, and assisted with over 70 tours of the White House and dozens of other Washington landmarks including the Supreme Court, Library of Congress and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing; and Engaged with over 9,000 friends on Facebook and over 12,000 followers on Twitter. All constituent services are accessible through Congressman Shimkus’s official website (shimkus.house.gov) or by phone to any of his five offices. ###
12.29.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is pleased to announce that the President signed the Senator Paul Simon Water for the World Act into law on December 19. Shimkus was a cosponsor of the bill, which passed the House December 8 and then passed the Senate on December 15. “While this legislation does not have a direct effect on Southern Illinois, Senator Simon’s legacy lives on through this initiative to utilize water, sanitation, and hygiene as tools for foreign assistance,” Shimkus noted. The Senator Paul Simon Water for the Poor Act was originally established in 2005, and this law amends that legislation. Specifically, this law directs the Secretary of State: To develop a strategy every five years to further U.S. foreign policy objectives by providing affordable and equitable access to safe water and sanitation in developing counties; and To develop a complementary strategy to further U.S. foreign assistance to provide affordable and equitable drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene in developing countries. Shimkus added, “First, it is noteworthy that both the House and the Senate passed this bill on voice votes – without any objections, which is quite amazing in today’s political world. Second, this law helps make the water programs be more focused, efficient, transparent, and better monitored.” ###
12.11.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) today voted to fund most federal government operations through the end of the fiscal year in September 2015. The bipartisan spending agreement includes a number of conservative priorities and better positions the Republican-controlled 114th Congress to confront President Obama’s executive actions on immigration early next year. “This spending agreement builds on a five year streak of budget reductions that have cut the deficit by $165 billion since 2010,” said Shimkus. “To put that into perspective, if Congress can keep these cuts in place, taxpayers will save $2.13 trillion over the next decade. That’s on top of the cuts we’ll have more leverage to make in the next Congress.” Specific cuts in the FY15 appropriations bill include a $345 million cut to the Internal Revenue Service, bringing total IRS funding down to below 2008 levels; a $60 million cut to the Environmental Protection Agency, bringing total EPA funding down $2.2 billion, or 21 percent, since 2010; and a $10 million cut to Obamacare’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), whose decisions could restrict access to needed care for patients on Medicare. The bill also maintains the ban on federal funding for most abortions and directs the Administration to provide better information about which Obamacare plans provide abortion services. “Despite all the conservative priorities included in this bill,” Shimkus continued, “I recognize that many are frustrated that it doesn’t immediately defund President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. I share those frustrations because I too oppose amnesty, but I would not have voted for this bill today if I didn’t truly believe it gives us the upper hand in the immigration debate come January.” “The reality,” concluded Shimkus, “is that a fully Republican-controlled Congress will be in a much better position to confront the President’s immigration actions next year through stand-alone legislation as well as through appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security, which is only funded through February in this bill.” More information on the omnibus appropriations bill can be found HERE. ###
12.10.2014	Washington, DC – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) released the following statement on the unexpected passing of his friend, Illinois Comptroller Judy Baar Topinka: “I was shocked and saddened this morning when I heard my friend Judy passed away. Judy is a legend in Illinois, where her charismatic personality and good nature endeared her to both sides of the aisle. Her decades of service to our state shattered a glass ceiling for women in politics and leave behind a legacy of compassion and dedication to the communities she served. My thoughts and prayers go out to Judy’s family, friends and staff during this difficult time.” ###
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) voted for legislation today that would allow Americans with disabilities to establish tax-free savings accounts to pay for qualified medical, housing, transportation, and job-training expenses. The Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014 passed the House 404-17. “Under current law, people with disabilities are discouraged from saving or seeking gainful employment because doing so puts them at risk of losing means-tested Medicaid and SSI benefits,” explained Shimkus. “By giving individuals with disabilities, and families with disabled children, the tools and the opportunity to play a bigger role in their support needs, the ABLE Act empowers people with disabilities to live and work more independently and improves their quality of life.” If passed by the Senate and signed by the President, states would have the option to establish an ABLE program beginning in 2015 under the new law. An estimated 54 million eligible individuals may then go to their financial institution to establish an ABLE account, modeled after current Section 529 savings accounts commonly used for education expenses. To be eligible for an ABLE account, individuals must: 1) be severely disabled before turning age 26, based on a marked and severe functional limitation; or 2) receive benefits under the SSI or Disability Insurance (DI) programs. More information on the ABLE Act is available HERE. ###
11.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) released the following statement in response to the ground-level ozone rule proposed by EPA today: “With a price tag of $3.4 trillion in lost economic output and 2.9 million lost jobs by 2040, American manufacturers have warned this could be the most expensive regulation ever written. While the costs themselves are staggering, perhaps the worst news for job-creators stems from the way EPA enforces these rules. Regardless of how much they invested to comply with the 2008 ozone standards, American businesses could still be forced to put the brakes on job-creating expansion plans simply because their community as a whole fails to meet new, unrealistic targets. The reality is that, even without these new rules, smog levels will continue their 40-year decline under the existing and yet-unrealized 2008 standards sought by the Bush Administration.” On November 13, 2014, members of the Energy and Power Subcommittee wrote to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy urging the agency to provide a full accounting of the costs of its ozone proposal. ###
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Representatives Peter Roskam (R-IL-6), Rodney Davis (R-IL-13), Randy Hultgren (R-IL-14) , John Shimkus (R-IL-15), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL-16), and Aaron Schock (R-IL-18) today released the following statement reacting to President Obama’s announcement that he will be using an executive order to bypass Congress and grant amnesty to millions of undocumented immigrants. “President Obama’s plan to ignore the Constitution and circumvent Congress is a lawless move that will ultimately do much more harm than good. We believe Congress should take the lead on immigration reform, securing our borders, improving the visa system and addressing the many layers of our broken system. This temporary measure will only spark chaos and create major problems both now and in the future. In fact, President Obama himself has said many times that an executive action of this magnitude would be unlawful. By blatantly bypassing Congress to execute this illegal executive order, the president is neglecting the interest of the American people, diminishing our national security, undermining the rule of law, and setting back efforts to permanently and meaningfully fix what's broken in the immigration system." ###
11.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) joined over two dozen Members of Congress in a letter to President Obama expressing concern about the Administration’s plan to take executive action on immigration reform. “While Congress certainly understands the need for reforms to the current system, it is imperative that we work together to pass legislation that improves our immigration system, increases border security and disincentivizes undocumented immigrants from illegally entering the United States,” the Members wrote. “Any unilateral action taken by the Administration will impede our efforts.” As the White House prepares to take unilateral action by week’s end, the letter also reminds President Obama of the promise he made to Republican and Democrat leaders in Congress the day after the election. Speaking from the East Room that day, the President claimed he was “eager to see what they have to offer” and “to find out how it is that they want to proceed.” “It didn’t even take President Obama two weeks to break his promise to work with Congress,” said Shimkus. “How can we work with someone who says he’ll do one thing, and then goes and does the complete opposite? I hope the President will reconsider his plan to go it alone and, instead, work with us in Congress to secure our borders, improve worker verification, and bring other meaningful reforms to our broken immigration system in a deliberative and transparent way.” A complete copy of the letter can be found HERE. ###
11.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) and Congressman Aaron Schock (R-Illinois-18) released the following statements on the one year anniversary of a series of deadly storms in Illinois. A total of 73 tornadoes were confirmed throughout the Midwest on November 17, 2013, claiming eight lives and inflicting much of their damage on areas represented by Congressmen Shimkus and Schock. “Some of the most destructive tornadoes in last year’s outbreak struck near Brookport, New Minden and Gifford in my district,” said Shimkus. “The day after the storms I went to see the damage in Brookport, where three lives were lost and New Minden, where two lives were lost. My staff assisted me in surveying the damage in other parts of the district in the following days, and I visited Gifford less than a week later.” “A year later, I’m impressed by how these communities came together to rebuild and, in my recent visits, I’ve been pleased to see more recovery than not,” Shimkus continued. “I ask all my constituents to join me in keeping the loved ones of the lost in their thoughts and prayers today.” “The morning the tornadoes struck, I left church to go immediately to the disaster zone. When I arrived, people were still climbing out of the rubble, and helping loved ones get to safety,” Schock said. “Our first responders in the 18th District did an amazing job, as fireman, police, emergency personnel and volunteers worked to help families who had lost everything.” “My office continues to monitor the progress of rebuilding and work closely with affected constituents to find the resources they need. Last year’s tornadoes put our local emergency response systems to the most challenging test, and Illinoisans pulled together as communities and come back stronger. Our thoughts and prayers continue on behalf of those who lost precious loved ones and personal property.” Reps. Shimkus and Schock ordered five flags to be flown over the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., commemorating the anniversary of last year’s storms and honoring the men and women who have worked to rebuild affected communities. The flags will be given to the City of Washington, Tazewell County, Gifford, New Minden and Brookport. ###
11.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) mourned the loss of three prominent Illinois public figures this past weekend. Southern Illinois University Interim Chancellor Paul Sarvela as well as former Congressmen Lane Evans and Phil Crane all passed away separately since Wednesday. Interim Chancellor Paul Sarvela (Passed away November 9th 2014) “The SIU community has lost a distinguished leader and devoted educator with the passing of Dr. Paul Sarvela,” said Shimkus. “My thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Debbie, their son, daughter, family and friends.” Former Congressman Phil Crane (November 3, 1930 – November 8, 2014) “Phil Crane is a legend in conservative circles for his leadership, intellectual contribution and lifelong support of the conservative cause,” said Shimkus. “But I’ll mostly remember Phil as a dedicated public servant to his constituents, a good father and husband to his family, and as a personal friend.” Former Congressman Lane Evans (August 4, 1951 – November 5, 2014) "As a marine, lawyer and congressman, Lane Evans always fought for the causes and constituents he cared so deeply for. His dedication to public service was a model for us all. My prayers are with his friends and family during this difficult time." Congressman Shimkus will lead the Illinois Congressional Delegation in speeches honoring our state’s recently departed public figures this week. Those speeches are scheduled for Thursday, November 13th at 10 a.m. CDT and can be watched HERE.
11.06.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Lane Evans: "As a marine, lawyer and congressman, Lane Evans always fought for the causes and constituents he cared so deeply for. His dedication to public service was a model for us all. My prayers are with his friends and family during this difficult time." ###
10.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) released the following statement on the reported uranium hexafluoride release at the Honeywell plant in Metropolis: “I have been closely following the reports from Metropolis over the last 48 hours; and today I spoke directly with the Honeywell plant manager, Jim Pritchett, and Mayor Billy McDaniel. I’ve been assured that Honeywell is cooperating fully with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and, while monitoring equipment detected no hazardous materials outside the plant, I am pleased the NRC is already on-site to do a full and thorough investigation. The safety of my constituents in and around Metropolis is my utmost priority. As Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy, I work frequently with the NRC, an independent regulatory agency charged with nuclear safety. I have full confidence in their professionalism and commitment to public safety. As the investigation continues, I look forward to their updates." ###
10.22.2014	Maryville, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) was presented with the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) Guardian of Small Business Award for his votes during the 113th Congress. In the report issued from January 2013 – July 2014, Shimkus has a 100 percent voting record. “We looked at ten key House votes during the 113th Congress to judge whether a Member of Congress supported small business and the issues we are most concerned about,” said Kim Maisch, NFIB Illinois state director. “I’m pleased to say Congressman Shimkus voted with us 100 percent in both the 112th and 113th Congresses.” Among the votes scored were the Northern Route Approval Act, which sought approval of the Keystone XL pipeline – which would be a job creator and bring lower energy costs to businesses; Fairness for American Families Act, which would have delayed the individual mandate in the Affordable Care Act; and the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act, which would reduce frivolous lawsuits. Shimkus noted, “I visit businesses, small and large, nearly every week across the 15th District, and I hear their stories of out of control government rules and regulations; high taxes; and difficulty in filling job vacancies. “Knowing that NFIB is watching our votes and recognizing that the House is listening is helps when I have to explain that the business climate for job creation can be better if we make some of these changes in both Springfield and Washington.” ###
10.17.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) today released the following statement on the Ebola outbreak: “Today I join a growing number of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in calling on President Obama to impose a commercial travel ban between the U.S. and Ebola-stricken countries in West Africa. My constituents are quickly losing faith in the Administration’s ability to successfully contain Ebola infections here in the United States and yesterday’s testimony from CDC and NIH officials at an Energy and Commerce subcommittee hearing did little to inspire confidence that quarantine and containment protocols are being consistently followed. As efforts to contain the disease continue, please keep the victims and those caring for the sick in your thoughts and prayers.” The Illinois Department of Public Health has established an Ebola hotline to answer Illinois residents’ questions about Ebola 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The hotline number is 800-889-3931. ###
10.10.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) recognized the McHenry Chapel’s 200th anniversary by entering a statement into the permanent record of the United States House of Representatives. The statement reads: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge the McHenry Chapel for 200 years of serving the community in White County, Illinois. For 200 years, the McHenry Chapel has continually been a spiritual home for area residents. “Being almost as old as our country and older than the State of Illinois, the McHenry Chapel has a long history. It was formed by Daniel McHenry in 1814, two years after the War of 1812 with many immigrants flooding into the area from southern states. This gave McHenry the inspiration and devotion to preach the gospel to his neighbors. After forming the church, McHenry served in creating the town of Carmi. “The original log church was used from 1814-1870. And as the faith community continued to thrive, plans for a new, larger church were begun in 1914, during World War I. Completed in 1916, the existing church has continued to attract people from the area. “I would like to congratulate and thank the current pastor and his wife, Jon and Stephanie Carrell, for answering the call to serve their community and bring hope and faith to the people. “McHenry Chapel will hold a 200th anniversary celebration on October 19, 2014, with services in both the morning and afternoon. A lunch will be held after morning service at the fairgrounds. “Mr. Speaker, I salute the McHenry Chapel and offer my best wishes for another 200 years.” This Congressional Record entry can be accessed HERE under Extension of Remarks, September 15, 2014, item number 26 (HTML) or page E1406 (PDF). ###
09.10.2014	MARYVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, college students, and anyone interested should apply now for summer 2015 admission. “As the school year begins, many students are thinking about what’s next. As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, I am eager to provide information and assistance with nominations to the military academies,” Shimkus stated. To be eligible for appointment, you must be a United States citizen; at least 17 and not more than 23 years of age on July 1, 2015; unmarried; not pregnant; have no dependents; and a legal resident of the 15th Congressional District of Illinois. Average acceptable ACT scores are 24 in English/reading and 25 in math. Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Those seeking more information or who are interested in applying for any or all of the academies should write or call for an application packet from Congressman John Shimkus, 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062; (618)288-7190. Completed applications must be received by November 5, 2014. The Congressman nominates to the academies; however, academy officials actually make the final selection regarding admission. Those accepted into an academy will be notified in early 2015. “I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact us now,” Shimkus added. “There are several steps in this process, and applications must be filed with both my office and online with the individual academies.” ###
09.09.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) voted today in support of H.R. 5078, the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Regulatory Overreach Protection Act. H.R. 5078 would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from expanding their jurisdiction over lesser bodies of water never intended for regulation under the Clean Water Act (CWA). “In 1972, Congress gave EPA and the Corps jurisdiction over the ‘navigable’ waters of the United States,” explained Shimkus. “But earlier this year, the Obama Administration set out to significantly expand that jurisdiction and allow the federal government to begin regulating everything from creeks and streams to ditches and man-made ponds. Since then I’ve heard frequently from farmers and landowners around the district who say this outrageous power grab would put needless burdens on their families and threaten their right to make decisions about their property.” The WOTUS Regulatory Overreach Protection Act passed the House 262-152 and now awaits consideration in the Senate. More information on the bill can be found HERE. ###
09.05.2014	SPRINGFIELD, Ill. – Congressmen John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) and Rodney Davis (R-Illinois-13) heard from medical experts and patient advocates today during a roundtable discussion of how to accelerate the discovery, development and delivery of new cures and treatments. The event, part of the Energy and Commerce Committee Cures initiative, was hosted by the SIU School of Medicine. “I was moved by the emotional stories our guests shared today,” said Shimkus. “We heard personal stories from patient advocates involved with the Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy, Kids vs. Cancer, the Parkinson’s Action Network, the ALS Association and the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society who have suffered for years as new treatments awaited FDA approval.” “One father on the panel, Steve Smith, has a son who was diagnosed with a rare disorder in 1990,” added Shimkus. “It took until 2014, nearly a quarter of a century, for the first treatment to win FDA approval. If that’s not a sign our regulatory system is woefully incapable of keeping up with advances in science and medicine, I don’t know what is.” "It was an honor to be able to take part in this discussion and hear first-hand from the people being most affected by some of the decisions being made in Washington," said Davis. "Also, to be able to have my friend Steve Rockford, who has been diagnosed with ALS, participate and tell his story was so incredibly important and moving to me." Other participants, including Thomas Philipson, an economist at the University of Chicago; Doctors Kevin McVary and David Stewart from the SIU Medical School; Doctor Doug Carlson of St. Louis Children’s Hospital; and Kirsten Axelsen, Vice President at Pfizer, brought a more direct perspective on federal policy changes that could help move our path to cures at a faster pace and bring about positive conclusions to these heart wrenching stories. The Energy and Commerce Committee set out in May to take a comprehensive look at what steps Congress can take to accelerate the pace of cures in America. Since then, in Washington and around the nation this August, Members of Congress have participated in facility tours, meetings and roundtables to learn from and ask questions of the medical community. To save more lives and keep America at the forefront of medical innovation, it’s clear from these efforts that we need serious reform to close the gap between the science of cures and the way we regulate new therapies and treatments. More information on today’s roundtable, including a list of participants, can be found HERE. More information on the 21st Century Cures Initiative can be found HERE. ###
08.07.2014	MARYVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is inviting area veterans to join him at his Veterans Advisory Committee meeting Tuesday, August 19, at Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 5694 in Highland. Shimkus and committee members will discuss the recently enacted Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014, as well as other issues of importance to former military men and women. A special guest will be Richard M. Randall, Jr., Director, Greater St. Louis Honor Flight. Randall will give a presentation about his organization, which provides transportation for veterans – especially senior veterans – to visit their memorials and sites in Washington, DC. Refreshments will be served at approximately 2:15 p.m., followed by the committee’s annual meeting from 2:30-4 p.m. No reservations are needed, but those interested in attending are encouraged to RSVP by calling the Congressman’s Maryville office at (618) 288-7190 so that necessary arrangements may be made. Post 5694 is located at 1900 VFW Road in Highland. ###
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported passage of the Conference Report for the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (HR 3230). The House passed this compromise 420-5, and the Senate is expected to pass the conference report tomorrow. “I recently visited the Danville and Marion VA Medical Centers and spoke to administrators and other employees, as well as veterans,” Shimkus stated. “I believe the employees’ desire to serve our nation’s veterans is present, but the bureaucracy of government is definitely in the way. “This legislation will improve access to health care and to increase the level of care given to our veterans.” The legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to offer non-VA care to any veteran enrolled after August 1, 2014, or newly discharged combat veterans if they are unable to secure an appointment at a VA medical center within 30 days or if that veteran resides more than 40 miles from the nearest VA medical facility (which includes outpatient clinics). Those veterans will be issued Veterans Choice Cards to receive care outside the VA system. “Holding the VA accountable is also a key step in preventing future failures and ensuring our veterans get the care they deserve,” Shimkus noted. “This legislation will allow the Secretary of the VA to fire or demote senior officials who fail in their duties.” In order to provide more timely health care to our veterans, the legislation also provide funds to hire physicians and medical staff. Additional funds to lease space in 27 specific location is provided with the nearest facility being a new outpatient clinic in Cape Girardeau, Missouri. “Another important part of this legislation is the call for an outside assessment of the services, standards, staffing, and practices of the VA,” Shimkus said. “And a Congressional Commission on Care will be established to review and give recommendations to Congress on the VA’s access to care. “During my visits to VA facilities I also heard about the outdated scheduling system used by VA. This legislation also requires an immediate review of that system through a technology task force.” Other provisions of the legislation include: Information on physician credentials will be available to veterans. Opens VA services to those active duty service members impacted by sexual trauma. Extends the pilot program for veterans with traumatic brain injury. “I continue to ask veterans who have had issues with the VA to contact my office in Maryville at (618)288-7190 in order to either report problems or to allow us to help you resolve a current dispute,” Shimkus added. ###
07.31.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) voted today for the House of Representatives to sue the Executive Branch for the Obama Administration’s failure to faithfully execute the law as required by the Constitution. While there are a number of areas in which President Obama has acted beyond the scope of his executive authority, the lawsuit brought by the House will focus only on the President’s unilateral delay of the Affordable Care Act’s Employer Mandate. “By waiving a key provision of his own health care law, President Obama infringed on Congress’s sole authority to write laws,” said Shimkus. “No President – Democrat or Republican – has the authority to unilaterally rewrite or ignore laws that become politically inconvenient. In the case of Obamacare, the House even passed legislation to give President Obama the legal means to delay the employer mandate. The President threatened to veto that bipartisan bill and illegally delayed the mandate by executive fiat instead.” Legal experts have testified that a long list of grievances with the President would be more difficult to litigate and less likely to succeed in court than a single, narrowly focused charge. This lawsuit represents the best path toward restoring the proper Constitutional balance of power in Washington. ###
07.15.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) today applauded House passage of H.R. 3086, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act, to continue the existing prohibition of most federal, state and local taxes on Internet access. “Unrestricted, tax-free access to the Internet has enabled commerce and communication on a scale never before seen in human history,” Shimkus said. “But if the Senate fails to act on this important legislation before November, some 262 million Internet connections could be subject to all manner of new taxes and fees that will limit consumer access and stifle innovation.” As a staunch advocate for a free and open Internet, Shimkus also authored legislation that was approved by the House earlier this year to protect the Internet domain name system (DNS) from falling under the control and censorship of authoritarian regimes. ###
07.13.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) released the following statement on the passing of former Illinois Congressman Ken Gray: "I was saddened to learn of Kenny Gray's passing on Saturday. Kenny was a larger than life advocate for southern Illinois with a legacy that brought us Rend Lake and the Interstate Highway System. In a era of bland politicians, I remember Kenny's colorful personality fondly. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Toedy as well as his family and friends in West Frankfort and across the state." ### UPDATE July 16: Congressman Shimkus delivered the following speech to the House of Representatives in celebration of the lives of Senator Alan Dixon and Congressman Kenny Gray:
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) praised today’s landmark Supreme Court decision to allow certain employers to opt-out of Obamacare’s contraception coverage mandate and again called on the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to release a long-overdue list of insurance policies that include coverage for abortions. “Today’s decision is a victory for the religious freedom we cherish as Americans,” Shimkus said. “By ruling that family businesses with strong religious objections to certain forms of birth control may opt-out of paying for those drugs or devices, the court rebuked the Obama Administration’s attempt to force men and women of faith to act against their deeply held beliefs or risk losing their businesses.” “To fully comply with the spirit of the court’s decision today, I once again call on the Obama Administration to release a list of policies offered on the exchanges that provide coverage for abortions,” Shimkus added. “No American business owner or consumer should be required by law to pay for an insurance policy that would violate their constitutional right of conscience. At minimum, consumers should know what they’re buying. ” Congressman Shimkus first requested a list of policies that cover abortions from then-HHS Secretary Kathleen Sibelius on October 30, 2013. Despite subsequent verbal and written requests, no such list has been provided. The Supreme Court decision in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby can be found HERE. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) released the following statement regarding the passing of Lisa Radogno, daughter of Illinois State Senator Christine Radogno: “I was shocked and saddened to learn that Nunzio and Christine’s daughter Lisa passed away yesterday. Lisa was a bright young lady, proudly following in her mother’s footsteps in service to our state as an aide to Senator Kirk. Her loyalty, kindness, and ever positive attitude will be greatly missed throughout our delegation. My prayers are with the Radogno family, friends and colleagues during this difficult time.” ###
06.16.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for House passage of legislation that helps the economy and provides certainty for small businesses regarding specific tax provisions. America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2014 (HR 4457) passed Thursday on a bipartisan 272-144 vote. “One of the provisions included in this legislation is Section 179, which will extend permanently the expensing level for small businesses and farmers to $500,000,” Shimkus noted. “This is something that I have been hearing about from farmers since last year.” The Farm Bureau was among over 150 organizations supporting the bill, including National Association of Manufacturers, National Association of Realtors, National Federation of Independent Business, and U. S. Chamber of Commerce. The American Farm Bureau Federation stated, “Farm Bureau believes that Congress should end its practice of extending important business tax provisions for one or two years at a time. This practice makes it very difficult for farmers and ranchers to plan and adds immense confusion and complexity to the tax code.” Shimkus added, “The amount available for deduction under Section 179 has fluctuated over the last several years. Simply put, this area of the tax code encourages businesses and farmers to spend on capital investment by allowing a deduction for qualifying purchases.” House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp said, “Washington needs to wake up, start listening to the American people and act on real policies that strengthen the economy and help hardworking taxpayers. Today’s legislation will do just that.” HR 4457 now heads to the Senate, where similar language has also been introduced. ###
06.09.2014	MARYVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is reiterating his open-door policy for U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs employees and veterans in his district to contact his office to report any irregularities in VA scheduling procedures they have witnessed. “Today’s release of the VA’s Access Audit confirms that the problems with veterans getting timely service are even more widespread than previously revealed,” Shimkus said. “My office has aided numerous veterans through the years who have experienced similar issues, and I encourage anyone currently in that situation – as well as VA employees – to share with me any knowledge of irregularities at the VA.” The Access Audit revealed 57,436 veterans waiting for appointments more than 90 days after requesting them, as well as confusing scheduling practices and more efforts to conceal the long wait times. The audit flagged 112 VA facilities for further review and investigation, including the Illiana Health Care System in Danville and the Marion Medical Center, located in or near the 15th Congressional District. “I will be returning to VA facilities that serve my constituents to seek answers, and I have asked to talk to veterans and employees without administrators present,” Shimkus added. “Anyone who seeks anonymity in fear of reprisal can also call my office at 618-288-7190.” ###
06.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15), a senior Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Chairman of its Environment and Economy Subcommittee, released the following statement in response to the new cap-and-trade rule EPA unveiled this morning: “After failing to win support for a cap-and-trade program in Congress, the Obama Administration is now attempting to implement a similar scheme through EPA rulemaking. Without a doubt, this new front in the War on Coal will raise electricity rates – especially in the Midwest – and cost hundreds of thousands of good paying jobs nationwide. “All for what though? EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy already conceded that it’s ‘unlikely’ any of EPA’s climate-related rules will have a meaningful impact on the agency’s own indicators of global climate change. In fact, even if President Obama could close every coal-fired power plant in America tomorrow, the effect on global emissions would be entirely offset by just a fraction of the proposed coal-fired plants being built overseas. “This rule will be all pain and no gain for American energy consumers and job seekers.” ### Update June 19: Rep. Shimkus reminds his Energy & Commerce Committee colleagues of the jobs lost in the War on Coal:
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) voted in support of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA, H.R. 3080) Conference Report today. The House-Senate compromise passed the House by a vote of 412-4. “This is the first water resources bill approved by Congress in seven years and likely the first ever without earmarks,” Shimkus said. “WRRDA is vital to Illinois, where more than 77 million tons of commodities worth over $28 billion travel up and down our rivers each year.” The conference report: Reforms the bureaucracy to accelerate project completion and streamline environmental reviews. Deauthorizes $18 billion of old, inactive projects. Expands the ability of stakeholders at the state and local level to contribute their own funds to expedite studies, permits and projects. Strengthens dam and levee safety. Establishes a new, transparent process for future bills to review and prioritize water resources development activities with strong Congressional oversight. Invests in ports and water infrastructure benefiting navigation, trade, and commerce – which benefits everyone through job creation and economic growth. More information on WRRDA can be found at transport.house.gov/wrrda. ###
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON – The Energy and Commerce Committee approved legislation today authored by Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) to maintain U.S.-led management of basic Internet functions until the Government Accountability Office (GAO) studies proposals to replace longstanding U.S. oversight. “The global Internet has run smoothly for 25 years because U.S. oversight ensured authoritarian governments had no control over the Internet beyond their own borders,” Shimkus said. “Until the Administration can guarantee that will remain the case under the oversight of international stakeholders, we should not surrender our oversight role.” Congressman Shimkus introduced the DOTCOM Act in response to the Obama Administration’s recent proposal regarding the future of the Internet. The Administration’s proposal instructs the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) to explore ways to remove the United States from its oversight role of the Domain Name System (DNS) and replace it with a so-called ‘multistakeholder’ governance model. “My bill is a simple good government bill. Trust but verify. Since we only get one chance to get this right, we have to make sure the Obama Administration doesn't just rubberstamp whatever proposal ICANN comes up with. Oversight is important, especially with this Administration,” Shimkus added. The DOTCOM Act is supported by Americans for Tax Reform and similar concerns over relinquishing the U.S. role in Internet governance have been raised by former President Bill Clinton, Wikipedia founder Jimmy Walls, former Democrat FCC Commissioner Julius Genachowski, and the Heritage Foundation. ###
04.24.2014	DANVILLE, Ill. – For the first time ever, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is bringing his annual high school art contest to Eastern Illinois University’s Tarble Arts Center. Between 2-4 p.m. on Sunday, April 27, the public is welcome to see the best paintings, drawings, collages, prints, photographs, computer-generated art, and mixed media submitted by dozens of students from Shimkus’ 15th Congressional District and enjoy a reception for the artists. “I am excited with the response we have received to this year’s contest,” Shimkus said. “This is the first such showing we have done in conjunction with the Congressional Art Competition, and we have received more than 50 entries from students throughout my district. I believe that is more than I have ever had for my contest.” Judging will be done by members of the Coles County Arts Council, and the Congressman will reveal the winner at the conclusion of the event. The outstanding artwork will be displayed in our nation’s capital for the next year. The winning artist is invited to participate in a ceremony in Washington, DC, with Southwest Airlines providing free flights for the student and a guest. Thousands of visitors and staff will see the best artwork from all participating Congressional districts in the U.S. Capitol Complex. Shimkus also displays the work of top runners-up in his district offices, located in Danville, Effingham, Harrisburg, and Maryville. ###
04.14.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) recognized the 100th anniversary of the Heath Confectionery in Robinson by entering a statement into the permanent record of the U.S. House of Representatives. The statement reads in part: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the centennial of the Heath Brothers Confectionary in Robinson, Illinois. Founded 100 years ago by L.S. Heath and his sons Bayard and Everett, this once small business has expanded to become a global franchise. Over the past 100 years, the Heath Confectionary has produced many successful products, chief among them the Heath Bar, a delicious toffee candy covered in milk chocolate and almonds. “Made by hand until 1942, production of Heath Bars was eventually ramped up to commercial scale to supply American troops during World War II. Throughout the conflict, Heath Bars were a staple of soldiers' rations, providing them with a small taste of home during their long deployments. “Known as ‘America's Finest,’ popularity for the candy grew steadily after the war. Recognizing the potential of the Heath Confectionary, the company was eventually acquired by Leif, Inc. in 1989, itself acquired by Hershey in 1996. “Today, Hershey maintains a plant in Robinson, Illinois, producing iconic candies such as Heath Bars, Paydays, Whoppers and Milk Duds. I applaud Hershey for maintaining the plant's roots in Robinson and for their contribution to the community through the creation of jobs and their generous corporate giving.” This Congressional Record entry in its entirety can be accessed HERE under March 21 Extensions of Remarks (HTML item 8 or PDF page E412). ###
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON – This week the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications & Technology approved legislation authored by Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) to protect the free and open Internet. The Domain Openness Through Continued Oversight Matters (DOTCOM) Act would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review any proposal to cede current U.S. Internet oversight responsibilities to a group of international stakeholders. The United States, through the National Telecommunications Information Administration (NTIA) at the Department of Commerce, currently oversees the matching of the numerical Internet Protocol (IP) address an Internet browser needs to find a website (173.194.33.7, for example) with that website’s easier to remember domain name (google.com, in this example). This matching process, administered for the U.S. by the California-based Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), makes navigating the Internet possible for the average user. “Now imagine the havoc and confusion a country like Russia could wreak on the world if such authority were to fall into their hands?” Shimkus asked. “Typing in cnn.com could take you to a Russian propaganda site. Or typing in freedomworks.org could bring up nothing at all. Free and open access to the Internet could be at risk.” Russia and China have sought such power to manipulate the Internet in the past through the United Nation’s International Telecommunication Union (ITU). “While I’ve been told the administration won’t move to a multistakeholder model that could compromise the openness of the Internet today, they need to explain to Congress and the American people how they’ll guarantee the new multistakeholder regime won’t be influenced by foreign governments or the ITU tomorrow,” Shimkus added. “We have to consider the long-term implications of giving up our oversight role because once it’s gone, it’s gone for good.” Shimkus warned of the rush to relinquish U.S. oversight in a hearing last week. Similar concerns were also raised by former President Bill Clinton and Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales last month. Specifically, the DOTCOM Act would prohibit the NTIA from turning over its a oversight responsibilities to the international community pending a GAO report to Congress. The report would include a discussion and analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the change and address the national security concerns raised by relinquishing U.S. oversight. It would also require GAO to provide a definition of term “multistakeholder model” as used by NTIA with respect to Internet policymaking and governance. ###
04.09.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) wants to make sure that victims of last November’s tornadoes are aware of the federal tax relief available to them. Taxpayers in federally declared disaster areas may deduct personal property losses that were not covered by insurance or reimbursed through other means. “The IRS made this announcement last year, but I wanted to take this opportunity to make sure that local residents who may be affected have one more voice reminding them before the tax filing deadline next week,” Shimkus noted. The complete IRS announcement is available HERE. The federal disaster declaration was for Champaign, Douglas, Fayette, Jasper, Massac, Pope, Vermillion, Wabash, Washington, and Wayne counties in the 15th District. ###
04.08.2014	URBANA, Ill. – U.S. Reps. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) and John Shimkus (R-Ill.) will be hosting two Academy Nights across central and southwest Illinois, in Urbana on April 14th and Godfrey on April 28th. The event in Urbana will be held on Monday, April 14th at 7:00pm at the Urbana Armory, 600 E. University Ave., in Urbana. The event in Godfrey will be held on Monday, April 28th, at 7:00pm at The Commons Room at Lewis & Clark Community College, 5800 Godfrey Rd., in Godfrey. “Each year we have the honor of nominating well-qualified, accomplished young men and women to our nation’s service academies,” said the Congressmen. “So we encourage any area student interested in applying to a service academy to attend an Academy Night event to learn more about the nomination process and speak directly to representatives from each of the service academies.” Academy Nights give area students an opportunity to receive more information about the congressional nomination process and hear directly from representatives from each of the five Federal Service Academies, including the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Coast Guard Academy. Service academies offer fully funded four-year scholarships to young U.S. Citizens who qualify by age and academics, who demonstrate desirable leadership qualities and who have the wherewithal to strive for excellence in all their endeavors. A four-year education at one of the service academies has an estimated value of more than $300,000. Both events are open to all junior high and high school students, parents, school administrators and guidance counselors. For more information or to RSVP for either event, contact Jennifer White at Jen.White@mail.house.gov. If you are unable to attend but would like to receive more information on the academy process, contact Rep. Davis’ office at 217.403.4690 or Rep. Shimkus’ office at 618.288.7190. ###
04.03.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is cosponsoring a resolution (H. Res. 476) that supports the restoration and protection of state authority in establishing student academic standards and assessments. “This Administration has coerced states into Common Core by throwing money at them,” Shimkus said. “The states, and particularly local school districts, should be determining the curriculum for students. “Federal funds should not be awarded based on the implementation of Common Core or any other national education standard.” The resolution, which is not a legislative bill but does express the sense of the House, is pending in the House Education and the Workforce Committee. It is sponsored by Congressman Jeff Duncan of South Carolina and has 67 cosponsors.
04.02.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is cosponsoring legislation that would allow someone with a valid concealed carry permit in one state to legally carry in another state. “The National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity Act (HR 2959) is pretty simple,” Shimkus explained. “If you can legally carry in Illinois – now that we have finally started issuing concealed carry permits – you should be allowed to carry in other states. “The other state’s rules regarding when and where you can carry would obviously have to be followed, but you wouldn’t have to worry about driving into Indiana or Kentucky or Missouri and instantly not being in compliance with that state’s law.” The bill currently has 131 bipartisan cosponsors. Shimkus added, “This bill does not establish a federal permit or registry or anything like that. It just says that one state’s permit is good in another state…similar to your driver’s license.” The National Rifle Association strongly supports this legislation. ###
03.28.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is cosponsoring legislation that would expand the prohibition on inaccurate caller identification. This practice is called “spoofing” and attempts to trick call recipients. “Current law bans the practice of spoofing from calls originating in the United States,” Shimkus explained. “This legislation (HR 3670) that I am cosponsoring would expand the ban on spoofing to calls originating outside the U.S. if the recipient is within the U.S.” The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) would regulate this through spoofing service providers that permit caller identification to be altered. “Anti-spoofing definitions would also be expanded to include text messages and IP voice services,” Shimkus added. “You should be able to rely on caller ID information to be accurate. When it’s not, you may inadvertently provide personal information to identity thieves or other criminals pretending to represent someone they are not.” The legislation is currently pending in the Energy and Commerce Committee, on which Shimkus serves. ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON – Representatives John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15), Todd Rokita (R-Indiana-4), and Marsha Blackburn (R-Tennessee-7) commented on the introduction of the Domain Openness Through Continued Oversight Matters (DOTCOM) Act today. The DOTCOM Act is in response the recent Department of Commerce announcement that the U.S. would relinquish its remaining oversight of the Internet’s domain name system to an ill-defined ‘global Internet community.’ “In the month of March alone we’ve seen Russia block opposition websites, Turkey ban Twitter, China place new restrictions on online video, and a top Malaysian politician pledge to censor the Internet if he’s given the chance,” Shimkus said. “This isn’t a theoretical debate. There are real authoritarian governments in the world today who have no tolerance for the free flow of information and ideas. What possible benefit could come from giving the Vladimir Putins of the world a new venue to push their anti-freedom agendas?” Russia and China have sought such a venue in the past through the United Nation’s International Telecommunication Union (ITU). According to Russian state-funded media, “a takeover of the Internet by a UN supranational agency” would aim to “standardize the behavior of countries concerning information and cyberspace.” “The internet is the single greatest economic machine created in the last 50 years and is a shining example of our American Exceptionalism,” said Rokita. “It is against our own national economic interest to relinquish control, especially without a clear path forward that will protect internet freedom and American interests.” “We can’t let the Internet turn into another Russian land grab,” Blackburn said. “America shouldn’t surrender its leadership on the world stage to a ‘multistakeholder model’ that’s controlled by foreign governments. It’s imperative that this administration reports to Congress before they can take any steps that would turn over control of the Internet.” “While I’ve been told the administration won’t move to a ‘multistakeholder model’ that could compromise the openness of the Internet today, they need to explain to Congress and the American people how they’ll guarantee the new ‘multistakeholder regime’ won’t be influenced by foreign governments or the ITU tomorrow,” Shimkus added. “We have to consider the long-term implications of relinquishing our oversight role because once it’s gone, it’s gone for good.” Specifically, the DOTCOM Act would prohibit the Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications Information Administration (NTIA) from turning over its domain name system oversight responsibilities pending a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report to Congress. The report would include a discussion and analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the change and address the national security concerns raised by relinquishing U.S. oversight. It would also require GAO to provide a definition of term ‘multistakeholder model' as used by NTIA with respect to Internet policymaking and governance. Representatives Joe Barton (R-Texas-6), Renee Ellmers (R-North Carolina-2) and Bob Latta (R-Ohio-5) and are also original cosponsors of the DOTCOM Act. ###
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) reminded the Department of Energy (DOE) and Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) today that any further dismantlement of the Yucca Mountain program would run counter to the law as affirmed by the DC Circuit Court. “The DC Circuit Court has been very clear that we have a site, it’s Yucca Mountain, and it’s the law,” Shimkus said. “At some point, we expect this administration to follow the law and restart the Yucca Mountain program.” “I plan to examine the actions necessary for NRC and DOE to complete the licensing process and restart the Yucca Mountain program, including resource and contracting needs, projected timelines, and the ability to reconstitute staff,” Shimkus added. “At a minimum, we need to verify that DOE is maintaining the ability to restart the Yucca Mountain program and to hear from contractors about their ability to support such a restart.” Shimkus, who chairs the Environment & the Economy Subcommittee with jurisdiction over nuclear waste policy, elaborated on the necessity of following the law in an op-ed published in Roll Call today. That op-ed is included below. ### On Yucca Mountain, Obama Again Treats Law as Merely a Suggestion John Shimkus | March 27, 2014 Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., delivered a rousing speech on the House floor earlier this month reminding the American people that, in Congress, “We don’t pass suggestions ... we don’t pass ideas — we pass laws. And we expect them to be faithfully executed.” While many are aware of the administration’s legally suspect Obamacare delays and go-it-alone attitude toward immigration, climate and a host of other policies — few realize President Barack Obama has also actively subverted the 30-year-old Nuclear Waste Policy Act, the law governing the development of a safe repository for our nation’s nuclear waste, and he wants to stick taxpayers with the bill. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act states that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission “shall” consider Yucca Mountain as our nation’s permanent geologic repository for high-level nuclear waste and that the commission “shall” approve or disapprove the Department of Energy’s Yucca Mountain application no less than three years after its submission. “Shall” is not a suggestion. So last August, a federal appeals court had to remind the administration that “the president may not decline to follow a statutory mandate or prohibition simply because of policy objections.” The court further scolded the scofflaw administration, noting that “it is no overstatement to say that our constitutional system of separation of powers would be significantly altered if we were to allow executive and independent agencies to disregard federal law in the manner asserted in this case by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.” Since then, Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz and all five NRC commissioners have testified before my Environment and the Economy Subcommittee that they would comply with the court’s decision and follow the law. To fully do so, however, would require both the Energy Department and the NRC to request the funding necessary to complete the licensing process and reach a final decision. Their failure to do so disregards the law as affirmed by the court. More recently, that same court ruled that the Department of Energy must stop collecting fees from ratepayers because the department’s “not-Yucca” “... strategy is based on assumptions directly contrary to law,” and that “it seems quite unfair to force petitioners to pay fees for a hypothetical option.” However, the Energy Department has requested that the taxpayers fund the administration’s decision to do something other than follow the law. If the court took such a dim view of the department’s actions that electricity consumers shouldn’t have to pay for them, why should taxpayers? Tenuous as they are, whatever scientific concerns still linger about the safety of permanently storing nuclear waste on secure federal land in a remote desert under a mountain would be put to rest by the completion of NRC’s Safety Evaluation Report. Volume 3 of this report will provide the NRC’s independent, scientific evaluation of whether Yucca Mountain will be safe for a million years. After spending $15 billion dollars studying this question, the public has a right to know the answer. If the answer is yes — as I believe it is after reviewing NRC documents — the NRC and the Energy Department have neither a legal nor a scientific reason to delay Yucca more than they already have. Three decades of delays have amassed more than 70,000 tons of spent nuclear fuel at more than 121 locations across more than 30 states. The American people deserve the central repository they’ve paid for, not more excuses for dodging the law.
03.26.2014	DANVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R-Illinois-15) registered his support this week for the critical impact Boys & Girls Clubs have on their community and our nation. “As a parent and former high school teacher, I’ve seen first-hand how important a structured, supportive environment is to a child’s development and future success,” Shimkus said. “That’s why I’m proud to support the work of Boys & Girls Clubs in Danville, Bethalto, and Champaign.” Shimkus also helps raise money for the Boys & Girls Club of Washington, DC through his participation in the annual Congressional Baseball Game. Last year, the game raised over $300,000 for charity. According to the Boys & Girls Clubs of America: Each year, over 4,000 local Clubs across the country and on U.S. military bases overseas open their doors to nearly 4 million youth in need of guidance, offering a safe place to grow and build a great future.
03.05.2014	DANVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting entries for the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. The contest is open to high school students in the 15th Congressional District with entries due by April 17. “This is an annual competition that we are pleased to participate in,” Shimkus said. “The winning artwork from my district gets to hang in Washington, DC, for nearly a year. Thousands of staff and visitors will see the piece.” Acceptable mediums include: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, photographs, computer-generated art, and mixed media. Artwork must be two-dimensional, no larger than 28 inches by 28 inches by 4inches including the frame, cannot weigh more than 15 pounds, and be original in content. “This year we will be hosting a public display of the entries at the Tarble Arts Center at Eastern Illinois University in Charleston on April 27,” Shimkus noted. “Members of the Coles County Arts Council will assist in judging the entries.” The winning artist is invited to participate in a ceremony in Washington, and Southwest Airlines will fly the winner and a guest to Washington for free. Entries must be accompanied by a Student Information and Release Form, which includes a release by the student, art teacher, and a parent. Guidelines and the form are posted on Shimkus’ website at www.shimkus.house.gov under Constituent Services. For more information contact Shimkus’ Danville office at 217-446-0664. Entries may be delivered to any of Shimkus’ offices in Danville, Effingham, Maryville, or Harrisburg prior to the April 17 deadline. ###
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported three separate bills this week to rein in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and protect American taxpayers. The legislation comes in response to the IRS’s widespread targeting of conservative and Tea Party affiliated groups first documented in a 2013 report from the Treasury Department’s Inspector General. “Americans shouldn’t have to live in fear of their own government,” Shimkus said. “The targeting and harassment of anyone for their political or religious beliefs is outrageous and unacceptable.” “Given the bipartisan support these bills received in the House, I urge my Senate colleagues to act quickly and help us reassure our constituents back home that their elected representatives have zero tolerance for government abuse.” Summaries of the three bills are below: H.R. 3865, the Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014 prevents proposed IRS regulations on 501(c)(4) organizations from taking effect. H.R. 2530, the Taxpayer Transparency and Efficient Audit Act requires the IRS to disclose to the taxpayer when the IRS has shared their tax information with another government agency and places a time limit on how long an individual can be subjected to an IRS audit. H.R. 2531, the Protecting Taxpayers from Intrusive IRS Requests Act prevents the IRS from inquiring about an individual’s religious, political, or social beliefs. ###
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has written a letter to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security inquiring about recent ammunition purchases. “I am regularly asked by constituents about Homeland Security ammunition purchases, ammunition shortages, and related topics,” Shimkus noted. “The Department of Homeland Security has answered those – although not always to the satisfaction of constituents. “The recent purchase of high-powered rounds doesn’t fit into past explanations and comes soon after other purchases,” he added. “Thus, we are asking the Secretary to explain the purchase of 141,160 rounds of Hornaday .308 Winchester 168gr A-MAX-TAP ammunition.” Specific questions in the letter include: 1. How many of these rounds did the Department purchase in past acquisitions? 2. How many of these rounds does the Department currently hold in inventory? 3. Please provide a breakdown of training and operational expenditures of this ammunition. “I understand the concerns that constituents express to me, and I hope the Department can adequately explain this purchase,” Shimkus said. ###
02.26.2014	WASHINGTON – U.S. Reps. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) and John Shimkus (R-Ill.) today applauded the news that the UI LABS, a Chicago-based research and commercialization collaborative, has been awarded $70 million from the U.S. Department of Defense for the Digital Manufacturing and Design Innovation (DMDI) Institute. The federal investment for the DMDI Institute will be used to establish the Digital Lab for Manufacturing (Digital Lab), led by UI LABS. “With the state of Illinois’ strong tradition in manufacturing, it’s only fitting that we remain at the forefront of the future of manufacturing, and that’s digital manufacturing,” said Davis. “Like the University of Illinois’ world class Research Park in Urbana-Champaign, this lab will operate on the principals of innovation and entrepreneurship. In fact, locating the Digital Lab in Illinois would not have been possible without the unique tools the University of Illinois brings to the table by way of engineering expertise, business development experience, and the Blue Waters Supercomputer. “The Digital Lab will be a center of large-scale research projects that will unite the best and brightest from the University of Illinois, the city of Chicago, academia, government and private industry, and it will spur long-term economic growth and job creation, with as many as 75,000 jobs created in the first 5 years alone. And now, through the work of the University, we will see defense companies, contractors, and manufacturers across the country looking to the state of Illinois as the national hub for digital manufacturing.” “In addition to the University of Illinois, Southern Illinois University, Lake Land College, and Southwestern Illinois College are partnering in this program,” said Shimkus. “Local employers, such as Boeing, General Dynamics, and Caterpillar are also key partners in advancing new manufacturing techniques. “Digital manufacturing is here, and we need to embrace this technology and advance its use in order to maintain and grow our competitive advantages here in Illinois. Training will also be vital to accomplish the implementation of the research at this new lab.” Background: In August and November, Rep. Davis led the effort for the Illinois Delegation in the House on letters of support for the Digital Lab to the Department of Defense. Click here and here to view the letters. As a Chicago-based research and commercialization collaborative, UI LABS brings industries, universities and government together to apply real solutions to tomorrow’s most important business, economic, and cultural challenges. UI LABS actively cultivates and channels talent and resources, fosters unbiased collaboration to bring new ideas to market, and drives economic growth and competitiveness. UI LABS will house and support the Digital Lab for Manufacturing (Digital Lab). The Digital Lab is an applied research institute that will both develop and demonstrate digital manufacturing technologies and deploy and commercialize these technologies across key manufacturing industries. The $70 million cooperative agreement from the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) will be leveraged by commitments of $250 million from industry, academia, government and community partners, forming a $320 million Institute. Leading industry partners include General Electric, Rolls-Royce, Procter & Gamble, Dow, Lockheed Martin, and Siemens. University and government partners are regionally anchored in the Midwest, spanning Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Wisconsin, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, and Nebraska, and extending to Colorado, New York, Oregon and Texas, to leverage the best research and technology in the country and deploy solutions on a broad scale. Areas of focus include Advanced Analysis, Intelligent Machining, and “Advanced Manufacturing Enterprise,” which are agile and robust manufacturing strategies and integrated capabilities that dramatically reduce the cost and time of producing complex systems and parts. This applied research will create thousands of jobs in advanced manufacturing fields and make the U.S. economy more competitive, generating billions of dollars of value to the DoD and U.S. industrial base. Many of these new jobs will require new skills, and the workforce must follow, moving from low-skilled to high-skilled labor. The Digital Lab is a vehicle for workforce development, through partnerships with trade associations, community colleges, and local economic development organizations. ###
02.24.2014	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after learning of Congressman John Dingell’s decision to retire at the end of the 113th Congress: “Since coming to Congress I’ve had the honor of serving with, and learning from, John Dingell. A lion of the House, John’s determined efforts to broadly define his committee’s jurisdiction and his tough but fair-handed leadership style over fifteen years as chairman truly made the Energy & Commerce Committee the indispensable institution it is today. While often on opposite sides of policy debates, I’ve never questioned John’s sincere desire to better the lives of our fellow Americans. It has been a privilege to serve with him and I wish him the best in his retirement.” ###
02.20.2014	WASHINGTON – House Co-Chairs of the Next Gen 9-1-1 Caucus, Reps. John Shimkus (R-Ill.) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), today applauded the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) for voting in favor of proposed standards for wireless providers to ensure accurate caller location information is automatically provided to public safety officials for indoor as well as outdoor wireless calls to 9-1-1 call centers. “We’ve made great progress on improving location reporting for outdoor wireless calls to 9-1-1,” Shimkus said. “Setting standards for indoor location accuracy is the next logical step as more and more Americans rely on their mobile phones in emergencies. I’m pleased to see the FCC agrees.” “By some estimates, 70 percent of 9-1-1 calls today are placed from wireless phones, demonstrating the powerful effect mobile technology has had on public safety,” said Eshoo, who also serves as Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “Yet, when these calls are made from indoors, first responders still have difficulty obtaining accurate location information. If their smartphone app can pinpoint their location almost instantaneously, consumers rightfully expect our first responders should be able to do the same in an emergency. I welcome the newly approved FCC benchmark for 9-1-1 call location accuracy as it takes public safety a step further toward that goal.” Reps. Shimkus and Eshoo sent a letter to the FCC on January 15th requesting the Commission do more to ensure first responders have the necessary information to locate calls made to 9-1-1 call centers from indoor locations. ###
02.19.2014	MARYVILLE, Ill. – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) issued the following statement on the Vice President’s visit to Granite City and the fifth anniversary of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA): “While I support the efforts to expand and grow America’s Central Port, the stimulus as a whole was a failure. The fact is the stimulus included very little infrastructure spending, so touting infrastructure improvements hardly tells the full story of the stimulus. “What the stimulus did include was a lot of waste, with funding for bankrupt companies like Solyndra, which cost taxpayers over $500 million alone. Other examples include the $3.4 million turtle tunnel in Florida and numerous studies that had no economic or job-creating value. “Another aspect of its failure is evident in the Illinois’ unemployment rate, which has not improved from the 8.5 percent in February 2009 to December 2013’s 8.6 percent. This does not include the many people who are feared to have left the job search altogether. “According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, each job created cost somewhere between $98,810 and $488,235. The worst part is that the long term costs of the stimulus will actually reduce our nation’s gross domestic product.” An analysis of ARRA from the Joint Economic Committee can be found here: https://go.usa.gov/Bwwx ###
02.18.2014	Effingham, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown. “These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone or having to drive to Effingham,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.” A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Douglas County on Thursday, February 27, from 10:30 a.m. till 12 noon at the Villa Grove Municipal Building, 612 East Front Street. Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ local office at 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401. The telephone number is (217)347-7947. Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours. ###
02.12.2014	Washington – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) released the following statement after voting to increase the federal government's borrowing authority through March 15, 2015: "When you pass a budget agreement in December that implies raising the debt limit and then you pass an appropriations bill in January that implies raising the debt limit, how do you then turn around in February and say no to raising the debt limit? We can now head into this year going through regular order on the appropriation bills, clean-up federal spending line by line and rein in the President’s alarming executive power grab." The bill passed the House (221-201) and the Senate (55-43). The legislation now goes to the president, who is expected to sign it into law.
02.11.2014	Danville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents in Vermilion County later this month. Shimkus will be at his office on the second floor of the U.S. Courthouse, 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, on Thursday, February 20, from 2:30 till 4 p.m. Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on February 20 in Danville should call (217)446-0664. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping waiting times to a minimum. "In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.” For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at 201 N. Vermilion St., Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832. Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. On the website constituents may sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter account and a staff Facebook page that are updated daily. Those requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made. ###
02.07.2014	Washington - Coinciding with the theatrical release of The Monuments Men movie today, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) announced his cosponsorship of H.R. 3658, to award the Congressional Gold Medal to the real life men of the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives program. “It’s almost unbelievable,” Shimkus remarked. “This small group of men, only about 350 in all, were able to find and return nearly five million works of art stolen by the Nazis during World War II. A mission like that is unprecedented in the history of warfare.” While initially charged with the protection of historic churches, cathedrals and monuments from Allied air and artillery strikes, the Monuments Men mission expanded in the last years of the war as they learned of Hitler’s order to destroy plundered cultural artifacts if Germany fell. The priceless relics rescued by the Monuments Men included works by Michelangelo, van Gogh, Monet, Picasso, Rembrandt, and da Vinci. “Recognizing them with the Congressional Gold Medal honors the sacrifices and successes of the Monuments Men in preserving western history and culture for the enjoyment and inspiration of future generations,” Shimkus said. Eleven of the 350 Monuments Men have connections to Illinois -- seven of them (in bold below) in or around the 15th District: Charles Sattgast – Born in Mount Vernon, IL; BA at Southern Illinois University Lewis Williams – Born in Champaign, IL (1918); Professor at Northwestern Richard Barancik – Born in Chicago, IL (1924); BS in Architecture at University of Illinois; Architect in Chicago (1950-1993) Seymour Pomrenz – Educated at the Spertus College of Jewish Studies, the University of Chicago, and University of Illinois Walter Hauser – Educated at the University of Chicago Leslie Poste – PhD Graduate Library School at the University of Chicago (1958) John Skilton – Employed at the Chicago Art Institute Morrie Grinbarg – Employed at the Department of Art at University of Chicago Robert Hansen – Employed at Bradley University Henry Newton – Born in Rankin, IL (1896) Turpin Bannister – Professor of Architecture at the University of Illinois John Hetrick – Professor at University of Illinois Edwin Rae – Professor at the University of Illinois (1939-1979) More information on the Monuments Men can be found on the Monuments Men Foundation website: www.monumentsmenfoundation.org/ ###
02.05.2014	Washington – Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act (HR 3590) in the House on Wednesday. This legislation combined a number of bills into one package that supports the rights of hunters and fishermen. “The federal government has a tendency to over-regulate and get into our lives in ways it shouldn’t,” Shimkus said. “This bipartisan bill dealt with traditional sportsmen’s issues and giving people recreational freedom.” Some of the provisions include: reaffirms that fishing, hunting, and shooting are activities that should be allowed to continue or not be blocked on public lands operated by the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management. protects Second Amendment rights on Army Corps of Engineers property. reiterates and clarifies existing law to protect lead bullets and tackles from increased costs due to federal regulation for hunters, sports shooters, and fishermen. grants Secretary of Interior authority to allow states to issue electronic duck stamps. declares recreational hunting and fishing as environmentally acceptable. “While I am not aware of any specific issues in Illinois, you send me to Washington to protect your rights, and I support keeping publicly owned lands open to use by the people,” Shimkus added. Groups supporting this legislation included Ducks Unlimited, National Rifle Association, Quail Forever, and Whitetails Unlimited among others. ###
01.31.2014	Maryville, Illinois - After hearing from numerous constituents and local propane dealers, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) wants constituents to know that he is fully aware of the issue and wants to share what information he has been able to discover about the problem. Regarding exports – According to the National Propane Gas Association, since 2008 exports of propane have risen; however, U.S. production of propane has also increased much more than the amount of those exports every year, except for a small difference in 2013. Regarding pipelines – Central and southern Illinois propane is shipped in from Kansas via the Mid-American Pipeline. Although two other pipelines can transport propane to the Kansas hub, one pipeline has had “capacity constraints.” Regarding demand – The economic principle of supply and demand is also playing a role in this year’s shortages. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the region Illinois is in (which also includes Wisconsin, Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio) has had a 15 percent increase in heating degree days this winter, which means a higher demand for propane. This was the largest increase outside of the south. Additionally, the late harvest increased use in drying grain. State actions – Both the states of Illinois and Texas has lifted some restriction on truck drivers and trucks in order to allow for more propane to be shipped via truck to areas of the country in need. Assistance – Even if you have never sought assistance for heating expense before, the LIHEAP program does exist. Income levels are $16, 755 for a single and for a family of four $34,575 in order to qualify. Applications are made at local community action agencies. For more information, feel free to contact my Maryville office at 618-288-7190. “Now, what can Congress do to help,” Shimkus asked. “While there is not a single swift action that will fix this problem, a letter is being sent to the President that I have joined asking him to do anything in his power to help. There are not specific requests made, but this will bring the issue to his attention by Members of Congress. “In addition I voted for a bill that the House passed last November that would reform the process for the permitting of natural gas pipelines. While this wouldn’t help immediately, the Senate needs to take up the bill in order for additional pipelines to be built. “I wish there was a way to fix the problem immediately,” Shimkus noted. “But from the information we have been given, unfortunately there is no quick fix.” ###
01.29.2014	Washington - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for the Agricultural Act of 2014, the farm bill conference report. The bill passed the House Wednesday and is expected to pass the Senate and be signed into law. Important farm policy reforms in the legislation include repeal of Direct Payments, strengthening of crop insurance, consolidating 23 conservation programs into 13, and many others. “One of the major reforms is in the food stamp program (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program or SNAP – in Illinois, Link), and eight billion dollars in savings come from food stamp reforms. A total of 23 billion dollars is saved over ten years,” Shimkus explained. The food stamp reforms include eliminating the LIHEAP loophole, prohibiting advertising and enrollment drives, eliminating medical marijuana as an eligible expense, and allowing states to pursue fraud. “In total, four current commodity programs are repealed. In addition to Direct Payments, Counter-Cyclical Payments, Average Crop Revenue Election program, and Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments will end,” Shimkus added. “The farm bill moves toward risk management by encouraging participation in the Price Loss Coverage and Agriculture Risk Coverage programs, in addition to crop insurance.” Many agriculture groups supported the bill, including American Farm Bureau Federation, American Soybean Association, Illinois Farm Bureau, National Corn Growers Association, and National Rural Electric Cooperative Association. ###
01.28.2014	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) issued the following statement regarding the President’s State of the Union speech: “These speeches are always more political than whoever the President is wants to make it seem. President Obama – in an election year – took a more liberal, activist tone. I happen to disagree with many of his ideas. “Promises made in speeches are also not automatically the law of the land. However, President Obama wants to start using executive authority to take more actions without Congress’ involvement. This is an unprecedented challenge to Congress by a President. “While the President talks about energy security, his EPA has taken several steps that will hinder what was becoming a growing coal industry. I’m afraid of what his pen or his EPA might do to other energy issues that benefit Illinois. “The President talks about jobs, yet his Administration has taken more steps to stymie job growth than to create jobs. The House has sent hundreds of bills over to the Senate that would directly or indirectly help job creation. “Finally, I want to say that the failures of Obamacare go beyond a website that doesn’t work. Here in Illinois, we are prime examples of the fiasco of Obamacare – we have had thousands more people receive cancellation notices from insurance companies than we have signed up on the website.” Congressman Shimkus’ guest at the State of the Union was Danville Mayor Scott Eisenhauer. Danville is the largest city in the 15th Congressional District. And in recent years, Members have chosen seat mates of the opposing party, and Shimkus sat with Congressman Tim Bishop (D, New York-1). ###
01.28.2014	Washington, DC - As a cosponsor of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (HR 7), Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is pleased that the full House of Representative passed the bill with a bipartisan majority Tuesday. Congressman Chris Smith of New Jersey, the pro-life leader in the House, introduced the bill that prohibits federal funds from covering health benefits that pay for abortions and prohibits federal health services from providing abortions. “As a 100 percent pro-life Christian, I was proud to assist in passing this bill but was also required by faith to do so,” Shimkus explained. “This legislation would make permanent current policies, including the Hyde amendment, Helms amendment, Smith amendment, and Dornan amendment that ban abortion funding in various government agencies or programs. “The bill now moves to the Senate, where the Democratic majority is unlikely to bring the bill up for a vote,” Shimkus added. “But the House has made its position known, so when appropriations bills are discussed…these bans on abortion funding will still make it into law.” ###
01.23.2014	Washington, DC – In response to the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) decision to deny the state of Illinois’ request for public assistance following the devastating storms on November 17, 2013, U.S. Reps. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), John Shimkus (R-Ill.), Aaron Schock (R-Ill.), Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), Cheri Bustos (D-Ill.), and Bill Enyart (D-Ill.) today introduced bipartisan legislation to finally bring fairness to the FEMA disaster declaration process. “Time and time again we’ve seen FEMA deny downstate communities from receiving federal assistance following storms,” said Davis. “Gifford and Washington are two of the most recent examples, but just two years ago Harrisburg in Southern Illinois was denied as well. It simply isn’t right when a storm leaves behind damage in Missouri, Illinois and Kentucky and the only communities to be denied federal assistance are in Illinois. The current system puts downstate and rural communities at a strong disadvantage, and that has to change.” “Downstate Illinois is disadvantaged when disasters strike, due to our population upstate," said Shimkus. "This legislation helps to address that problem and would allow communities like Gifford and Brookport, who were hit by tornadoes last year, a chance to be eligible for FEMA Public Assistance. A million dollars to Chicago may not matter much, but it does to my constituents.” "Federal assistance should be there in times of disaster wherever it strikes," said Enyart. "Communities in need should not be penalized because of their location or arbitrary formulas beyond the control of victims. This legislation will help level the playing field for towns like those that have been impacted in Illinois." "The communities across our region of Illinois should receive fair treatment when it comes to qualifying for federal disaster assistance," said Bustos. "This bipartisan effort will help ensure downstate Illinois communities are competing on a level playing field with other communities across the country when it comes to qualifying for the FEMA support they need to recover from natural disasters." "The initial denial by FEMA for a Public Assistance disaster declaration for Illinois' most recent disaster is unacceptable,” said Schock. “That decision was based on a flawed system which disadvantages the small and rural communities trying to recover from the devastating emotional and economic impact of the November storms. The City of Washington, IL and the surrounding areas have independently demonstrated the case for disaster assistance. With more than 500 homes destroyed in Tazewell County alone and accumulated public damages assessed in excess of $20 million, there is simply no excuse for the federal government not to provide the most robust amount of assistance possible." “When a disaster hits a small town, it affects everybody because of the close ties of the community, yet we see these towns being penalized due to an unfair formula that favors bigger cities,” said Kinzinger. “Our formula for distributing federal disaster resources should be based on where the need is greatest, not arbitrary population numbers, and this legislation does just that.” "On November 17th, 2013 our community was unbelievably devastated by an EF4 Tornado. We have over 1,100 homes damaged or destroyed," said Mayor Gary Manier, City of Washington. "We were told that the Federal Government would be there to help us recover. Now we have learned our Public Assistance disaster declaration request to FEMA was denied because we did not have enough devastation. We discovered early on in this process that the formula for the State of Illinois was excessively high and based on our state's population. This formula is a serious disadvantage to smaller communities who, regardless of the magnitude of the disaster, may never qualify for Federal Assistance. I am thrilled our members of Congress are working to right this wrong." According to a report by the Congressional Research Service (CRS), FEMA already takes into account several factors when determining the need for Public and Individual Assistance. However, there is currently no standard to determine which factor is more important than another, which leads to a highly subjective and uncertain process that leaves states and communities in limbo for weeks as their application is considered. The Fairness in Federal Disaster Declarations Act of 2014 will provide more certainty to states and small communities impacted by disasters by giving FEMA a clearer, more substantive formula when evaluating disaster areas. This bill assigns a specific weight to each of the factors already used by FEMA, and adds other economic factors for the agency to consider when determining whether or not a disaster area should receive federal assistance. Below is the formula breakdown for public assistance specified in the legislation and a description of each factor currently used by FEMA: Estimated cost of the assistance (10 percent). Currently, this is the key component to FEMA’s declaration process, calculated at $1.35 times the state population. This legislation will make it less of a factor by weighing it significantly lower than localized impacts. Localized impacts (40 percent). The legislation would put greater weight on the damage assessment on a specific area, as opposed to statewide. Insurance coverage in force (10 percent). Currently, FEMA deducts the amount of insurance that should be held by a government and non-profits from the total eligible amount. Hazard mitigation (10 percent). If the cost of damage falls short of the cost of assistance threshold due to mitigation measures that lessened the disaster's impact, FEMA will take this into consideration by doing a cost-benefit analysis. Recent multiple disasters (10 percent). FEMA would take any disasters occurring within the previous 12 months into consideration and evaluate the funds that the state has committed and their impact on the state and its residents. Programs of other Federal assistance (10 percent). FEMA would take into consideration whether or not other agencies will be contributing. Other economic circumstances (10 percent). Currently these are factors not considered by FEMA. This legislation would require FEMA to consider the local assessable tax base and local sales tax, the median income in comparison to the state, the poverty rate in comparison to the state, and the unemployment rate of the state in comparison to the national rate. The formula breakdown for individual assistance would be: Concentration of damages - 20 percent; Trauma – 20 percent; Special populations – 20 percent; Voluntary agency assistance – 10 percent; Insurance – 20 percent; Average amount of individual assistance by state – 5 percent; Economic declarations – 5 percent. The bill mirrors legislation introduced by U.S. Sens. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) and Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) in 2012 but will be retroactive to include all storms that occurred in 2013. ###
01.15.2014	Washington, DC - Following the budget agreement Chairman Paul Ryan reached in December, the House passed an omnibus appropriations bill implementing federal government funding for fiscal year 2014 on Wednesday. Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for the bipartisan package. The discretionary portion of the budget includes all spending outside of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and interest on the debt. This includes $520.5 billion in defense spending, and $491.7 billion in non-defense spending in FY14. “There are several items in the overall bill that are either important to specific regions or for constituents across the district,” Shimkus noted. Items of note include: Ensuring disabled veterans and surviving families are not impacted by the cost-of-living reductions in the earlier Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. The Hyde Amendment and other bans on federal funding of abortions continue in this appropriations package as in years past. Language that assists the levee repairs ongoing in the metro-east area. A one year delay in national flood insurance rate increases. No new funding is allocated to implementation of Obamacare, and the Prevention and Public Health Fund is reduced by $1 billion. The closure of rural post offices and stopping Saturday delivery is prohibited. The Export-Import Bank is prohibited from blocking coal power plants in developing nations. The Department of Homeland Security will be required to provide detailed reports on its purchases and use of ammunition, in response to possible stockpiling by the government. Closing the chancery at the U.S. Embassy in the Holy See and merging it with the U.S. Embassy in Rome is prohibited. The number of detention beds for Immigration and Customs Enforcement rises to 34,000, the highest capacity in history. The IRS is banned from targeting “groups for regulatory scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs or to target citizens for exercising their First Amendment rights.” Funding for enforcement of the ban on incandescent light bulbs is banned. The bill passed 359-67, and the Senate is expected to vote on the bill Friday. ###
01.09.2014	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is announcing his nominations to the military service academies. The Congressman nominates, and then the academies themselves make the final determination whether a nominee receives an appointment to attend that academy. "The academies look at academics, leadership, and physical fitness in order to assure a young person is well-rounded and able to cope with the uniqueness of attending a military school," Shimkus said. "As a West Point graduate, I am very proud of these young men and women for considering an academy for their college choice and am grateful for the honor of being able to nominate.” The four military academies that require Congressional nominations are: United States Military Academy, West Point, New York; United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colorado; United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland; and United States Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, New York. High school juniors, college students, or current members of the military who are residents of the 15th District and wish to attend an academy beginning in 2015 can request a nomination packet by writing Congressman John Shimkus, 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. Those packets with complete requirements will be sent out in late summer. Potential nominees complete applications with both the Congressman's office and each individual academy. “I again offer my congratulations to these outstanding students,” Shimkus added. ### Congressman John Shimkus Military Academy Nominations - Class of 2018 Name City County Academy Adkins, Hunter Gifford Champaign USNA Auer, Zachary Collinsville Madison USAFA/USNA Bell, Zachary Trenton Clinton USAFA Camillo, Grant Highland Madison USMA Campbell, Joshua Dieterich Effingham USAFA/USMA/USNA Campbell, Mary St. Joseph Champaign USNA Coen, Paul Golconda Pope USMA Couch, Dakota Humbolt Coles USNA Cunningham, Connor Edwardsville Madison USMA/USNA Dart, Noah Newton Jasper USAFA/USMA/USNA Davis, James Dieterich Effingham USAFA Ghast, Landon Newton Jasper USAFA Kaper, Alex Mahomet Champaign USMA/USNA Lowery, Robert Boles Johnson USAFA Merritt, Austin Chrisman Edgar USNA Murphy, Spencer Highland Madison USNA Rodgers, Cort Mt. Carmel Wabash USAFA/USMA Scheve, Reed Metropolis Massac USAFA/USMA Sefton, Matthew Brownstown Fayette USAFA Smith, Brockton Tuscola Douglas USNA Stepina, Nicco Casey Clark USNA White, Matthew Shelbyville Shelby USMA/USNA USMA = United States Military Academy (West Point) USAFA = United States Air Force Academy USNA = United States Naval Academy
01.08.2014	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is again asking constituents for participation in his “Valentines for Heroes” program. The Congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution throughout the region to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands of valentines have come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” Shimkus said. “Constituents have been overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present. “School classes, church youth groups, home schoolers, and individuals have all helped brighten a soldier or veterans day,” he added. This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 7 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062 City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832 The few basic rules to follow are to return signed valentines without addressing them to a specific person; without signing your last name or including your address; and without sealing them in individual envelopes. All valentines are reviewed for content and appropriateness before distribution. ###
12.12.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for House passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that sets spending guidelines for the current fiscal year (2014) and the next fiscal year (2015.) House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan reached the deal with Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray. “While the agreement increases the security spending slightly, there is an overall net deficit reduction of an additional $23 billion on top of the previous Budget Control Act that I also supported,” Shimkus explained. “In addition, some pension controls are instituted as well as other savings.” Some of the cost saving provisions include: stopping criminals from receiving unemployment checks; stopping dead people from receiving government payments; and ending interest rate bonuses for some energy company deposits with the government. With regard to federal pension savings…future federal employees will pay 1.3 percent more toward their retirement, and working age military retirees will get a slightly lower cost-of-living increase. “These are all modest reforms, yet they are reforms that will pass a Democrat Senate and get signed into law by the President,” Shimkus noted. “We continue to reduce the deficit without raising income taxes.” ###
11.21.2013	Washington, DC - Republican members of the Illinois Congressional delegation today wrote to Governor Patrick Quinn asking how the state will verify that those who self-report as Medicaid eligible through seeking Obamacare coverage will be verified as eligible. The letter followed the state’s announcement earlier this month that only 1,370 people had selected private plans and nearly 20,000 were deemed Medicaid eligible. The letter explains: “We are writing to gather more information regarding those estimates to better understand how many Illinois residents have: (1) completed applications and purchased a private plan, and (2) been deemed possibly eligible for Medicaid but not previously enrolled versus those newly eligible to the program.” The state will bear a higher burden of the cost of those who were previously eligible for Medicaid yet were not signed up. Newly eligible Medicaid recipients are reimbursed higher under Obamacare. And an audit for fiscal year 2010 showed Illinois overpaid $171 million under Medicaid. Senator Mark Kirk and Congressmen John Shimkus, Peter Roskam, Aaron Schock, Randy Hultgren, Adam Kinzinger, and Rodney Davis all co-signed the letter (attached). A series of six specific questions were included in the letter. Among them were: “What procedures does the state of Illinois have in place to ensure applications they receive from the FFM (federally facilitated marketplace) will be accurately categorized as previously eligible, newly eligible, or not eligible for Medicaid?” “What policies has the state of Illinois implemented to limit any future overpayments associated with eligibility errors…?” The letter also asks for monthly reports from the state on matters related to Medicaid applications and the breakdown of eligibility. Earlier this month the delegation wrote the state’s Director of Insurance seeking information about the number of Illinoisans whose health insurance policies were cancelled due to implementation of Obamacare. That letter has yet to be responded to. ### Delegation to Quinn Medicaid.pdf
11.21.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported House passage of three bills in Washington this week that is consistent with an all-of-the-above energy policy he has advocated for years. On Wednesday the Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act (HR 1965) and the Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act (HR 2728) both passed. Thursday the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act (HR 1900) passed. All had bipartisan support and now move to the Senate. “While our reliance on foreign oil is decreasing, we must continue to press for more domestic and North American energy exploration and advancement,” Shimkus said. “Drilling for oil and gas, building pipelines and terminals, and allowing the states to maintain some regulatory permissions are vital to growing our economy.” The Federal Lands Jobs legislation deals with onshore energy production by requiring new lease sales and timely permit approval. “The production on federal lands is down to levels not seen since the ‘80s,” Shimkus noted. “We need to access our country’s natural resources and speed up the process to get the wells into production.” The Protecting States’ Rights legislation would leave the regulation of hydraulic fracturing (fracking) to the states, if the state has implemented its own rules. “I supported Illinois’ passage of fracking rules and hope that IDNR can implement them as quickly as possible,” Shimkus added. The Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting legislation would hold agencies responsible for permitting to timelines in order to get certainty into the process. ###
11.15.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has heard the stories of many people across the 15th Congressional District who have lost their current health insurance or have seen their premiums skyrocket due to the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). Friday, the House passed the Keep Your Health Plan Act (HR 3350) in an attempt to counter the President’s false claims that you could keep your plan if you liked it. The President has since acknowledged that his statements were inaccurate and has proposed more changes to the law bypassing Congressional approval. “The President attempted to preempt action on HR 3350 by issuing even more exemptions to Obamacare, but another regulatory change is not sufficient to solve the problems created by the new healthcare law,” Shimkus said. “We need the certainty of legislation passed by Congress.” The Keep Your Health Plan Act would allow plans currently available on the individual market to continue next year, providing Americans the opportunity to enroll in them without penalty. Despite the President's promise, millions of Americans have been told they are losing their healthcare plans and access to their doctors because of Obamacare. The Keep Your Health Plan Act aims to remove the resulting anxiety and provide choices to the American people. “One of the main reasons I supported this legislation was because of hearing numerous stories from constituents of mine and Americans across the country who have lost their coverage they liked as a direct result of Obamacare,” Shimkus added. “Many have shared their experiences online at www.gop.gov/yourstory. I invite anyone else with a notable story to do the same.” With 39 Democrats joining the majority, the legislation passed 261-157 and now moves to the Senate. ###
11.14.2013	Washington, DC- Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported House passage of two pieces of legislation related to legal reforms. On Wednesday the House passed the Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency (FACT) Act (HR 982), which would require that trusts formed through bankruptcy proceedings to benefit victims of asbestos be required to file quarterly statements. “These statements would simply allow the public to see who is getting paid how much from these trusts,” Shimkus said. On Thursday the House passed the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act (HR 2655), which would remove the provisions prohibiting sanctions against attorneys who file misinformation and then correct it later. “Basically, if you file incorrectly, you would be held responsible for that misrepresentation to the federal court and would not be allowed to fix it later,” Shimkus explained. “This makes it imperative that lawsuits are filed correctly the first time.” Both measures passed with bipartisan majorities and now head to the Senate. ###
11.05.2013	Washignton, DC - Six members of the Illinois Congressional delegation have written to Andrew Boron, director of the Illinois Department of Insurance, seeking answers to questions as their constituents deal with the fallout from the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). Congressmen John Shimkus, Peter Roskam, Aaron Schock, Adam Kinzinger, Randy Hultgren, and Rodney Davis sent the letter Monday seeking answers to the following questions: How many plan cancellation notices have been sent to private-individual health insurance policyholders in Illinois this year? What was the total number of Illinois residents insured by private-individual insurance policies in the most recent year where data is available? According to the most recent data you have available, what was the average year-over-year change in cost, if any, for those private-individual insurance policies? What is the estimated average cost increase for a private-individual insurance policy on the individual market in Illinois for 2014? In the letter, the group notes, “We have all had constituents share with us similar notices they have received from their insurer. Thus, we are concerned these are not isolated incidents outside of Illinois. If the intent of the law was to expand coverage to the uninsured while ensuring those who like their health insurance plan can keep it, we would like to know the impact the ACA is having on individual insurance market consumers in the state of Illinois.” In addition to cost, the letter also notes concerns regarding access to family physicians as a result of the law’s implementation. Reports from other states show hundreds of thousands of people have been terminated from their existing health insurance policies. Congressional Insurance Letter.pdf
10.23.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted to pass the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA, HR 3080), the first water resources bill to pass the House in six years. “This bill is vital to our nation’s economy, as it directly helps manage our maritime and waterways transportation system,” Shimkus said. “And Illinois is key in our nation’s river transportation network with the Illinois, Kaskaskia, Wabash, Ohio, and Mississippi rivers all affected by WRRDA.” Key highlights of the legislation include: Reforms to bureaucracy that cut red tape along with streamlined environmental reviews that should accelerate projects to completion. De-authorizes $12 billion in inactive projects. Increases Congressional oversight of projects creating a transparent process for review and prioritizing. Allows non-federal interests to contribute financially in order to move projects forward faster. Invests in ports and water infrastructure benefiting navigation, trade, and commerce, which aids everyone through job creation and economic growth. Organizations that supported passage of the bill included the American Farm Bureau Federation, National Association of Flood and Stormwater Management Agencies, National Association of Home Builders, National Association of Manufacturers, U. S. Chamber of Commerce, and Waterways Council. The bill passed the House 417-3, and the Senate passed its own version earlier this year. A Conference Committee will now be appointed to work out the differences between the two. ###
10.16.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for the compromise reached by Senators in the budget stalemate. The deal funds government operations through January 15, 2014, and extends the debt ceiling to February 7, 2014. “In addition to the problems with Obamacare, I am deeply concerned about our nation’s long-term fiscal situation,” Shimkus noted. “I am very hopeful that the budget conference committee, which is part of the overall agreement, will be successful in addressing the mandatory spending issues we face. “And as Senator McConnell said in his remarks…the spending restraints negotiated in the Budget Control Act remain in place, and we will have two years of reduced government spending for the first time since the Korean War.” House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan has already announced a breakfast meeting Thursday with Senate Budget Committee Chairman Patty Murray to begin the process of moving forward toward the December budget conference deadline. ###
09.20.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) issued the following comments following House passage of a continuing resolution (H.J.Res. 59) that would fund the federal government into December, defund Obamacare, and prevent a government shutdown:“My constituents have been very vocal in expressing their displeasure with our spending habits in Washington. They are equally vocal about defunding Obamacare (Affordable Care Act).“This short-term spending plan gives Congress and the President time to work out the appropriations for the full fiscal year. I would hope that between the CR and the upcoming debt ceiling debate, we can reach long-term agreements.”###
08.28.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, college students, and anyone interested should apply now for summer 2014 admission.“As the school year begins, many students are thinking about what’s next. As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, I am eager to provide information and assistance with nominations to the military academies,” Shimkus stated.To be eligible for appointment, you must be a United States citizen; at least 17 and not more than 23 years of age on July 1, 2014; unmarried; not pregnant; have no dependents; and a legal resident of the 15th Congressional District of Illinois. Average acceptable ACT scores are 24 in English/reading and 25 in math.Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Those seeking more information or who are interested in applying for any or all of the academies should write or call for an application packet from Congressman John Shimkus, 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062; (618)288-7190.Completed applications must be received by November 5, 2013. The Congressman nominates to the academies; however, academy officials actually make the final selection regarding admission. Those accepted into an academy will be notified in early 2014.“I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact us now,” Shimkus added. “There are several steps in this process, and applications must be filed with both my office and online with the individual academies.”###
07.31.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is pleased to announce funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to the Charleston Fire Department. The grant program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U. S. Department of Homeland Security.Charleston will be receiving $9,500 in Fire Prevention and Safety Grant funds. The district will use the funds to purchase smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors for a local advocacy program."The Charleston Fire Department should be commended for their successful efforts in obtaining this competitive federal grant, as well as for their pro-active efforts to make the community safer," Shimkus said. "My office is pleased to assist with fire grants or any other federal grant program application. Just contact one of my local offices for assistance.”Fire departments and non hospital-affiliated emergency medical services are eligible for AFG grants. Those serving less than 20,001 residents are required to provide a five percent non-federal match for these one time grants. Departments serving between 20,001 and 50,000 residents must provide a ten percent match, and larger departments must provide a 20 percent match. ###
07.25.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for House passage of the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2013 (HR 2218). The bill passed with bipartisan support and now moves to the Senate for consideration.“This is legislation that I cosponsor and helped move through the subcommittee I chair and the full Energy and Commerce Committee,” Shimkus noted. “The underlying purpose of the bill is to allow the states to manage coal ash instead of Washington taking a one-size fits all approach that designates coal ash as hazardous waste.“The states are capable of managing this issue. The legislation is pro-coal and pro-environment, as we establish minimum standards and allow the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to step in if the individual state isn’t meeting those minimums,” he added.Currently, 38 percent of coal ash is recycled, which saves on landfill space. Concrete products are the most common use of coal ash, but it is also used in the production of shingles and wallboard.Over 200 organizations expressed their support for the bill, including the Association of American Road & Transportation Builders Association, Illinois Electric Cooperatives, National Mining Association, The Roofing Institute, and U.S. Chamber of Commerce.Shimkus spoke on the floor of the House in support of the bill. That speech can be seen at www.youtube.com/repshimkus.###
07.25.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown.“These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.”A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Clinton County on Thursday, August 8, 10:30 a.m. – 12 noon at the New Baden Village Hall, 1 East Hanover Street.Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ office at 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. The telephone number is (618)288-7190. More information on services offered by the Congressman's office is also available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. You may sign up for a weekly e-newsletter on the website in order to stay informed of the Congressman and issues from Washington, DC. In addition, Shimkus hosts Facebook, Twitter, and You Tube websites.Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours.###
07.24.2013	WASHINGTON – The following statement was issued today by Illinois House Republicans, including Congressman Peter Roskam (IL-06), Congressman Rodney Davis (IL-13), Congressman Randy Hultgren (IL-14), Congressman John Shimkus (IL-15), Congressman Adam Kinzinger (IL-16) and Congressman Aaron Schock (IL-18), following President Obama’s speech on jobs and the economy at Knox College, Illinois:“Today, President Obama made his 19th pivot back to what has always been most important to Americans, jobs and the economy. With its 9.2% unemployment rate, full-blown budget crisis and sky-high taxes, our shared home state of Illinois is an example of government making all the wrong economic choices. However, no amount of presidential pivots and speechmaking will change the fact that too many Illinoisans are out of work. It doesn’t have to be this way.“House Republicans have never strayed from our focus on creating jobs and strengthening our economy. We are developing a tax reform package for individuals and businesses that would increase American competiveness in the global economy. We have passed a jobs and skills training package, approved the Keystone XL Pipeline, acted to protect families and individuals from a costly healthcare law and put forth a plan to permanently fix our student loan crisis. These proposals would immediately and demonstrably boost the economy, and set the foundation for long-term growth. We agree with the president, too many Americans are struggling in today’s economy, and we stand ready to work toward real, bipartisan solutions, not listen to another stump speech.”Learn more about the House GOP's plan for economic growth and jobs at gop.gov/jobs.###
07.17.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for two bills that would delay implementation of the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) for both businesses and individuals. Both bills passed the House with bipartisan support.“The President has unilaterally announced that businesses will have a one year delay in implementing his signature piece of legislation, and one of today’s votes makes that delay official,” Shimkus said. “This Administration sometimes thinks it can pick and choose what laws to enforce, but in this case we agree that the law should be changed.“In addition, if the President wants to delay Obamacare implementation for businesses, because the system is not ready. Then the provisions that apply to the individual mandate should also be delayed, even though I would prefer total repeal,” he added.Authority for a Mandate Delay Act (HR 2667) officially would delay the Employer Mandate one year to December 31, 2014. Employers with at least 50 full-time (30 hours per week) employees are currently required to offer employees an employer-sponsored health insurance plan or pay a penalty up to $3,000 per employee. The Administration announced its decision to postpone this requirement via a blog post.The Fairness for American Families Act (HR 2668) would delay the Individual Mandate from 2014 to 2015. This provision requires individuals to pay a financial penalty via their tax return if they do not maintain minimum health insurance coverage as determined by the government.###
07.09.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is recovering following non-surgical heart procedures at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis, Missouri. He underwent an electrophysiology test then an ablation earlier today, and doctors expect a full and healthy recovery.Shimkus noticed an abnormal heart rhythm and sought medical advice prior to today’s scheduled procedures.Following the procedures, he will be recuperating at home; thus, he will miss all House votes in Washington this week. In addition, he will be unable to attend a hearing in the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy that he chairs.It is anticipated that Shimkus will return to his normal work schedule the week of July 15. In March 2005 Shimkus had open heart surgery to repair a genetic valve condition. This heart arrhythmia is also a genetic condition.###
06.26.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is pleased to announce funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to the Christy Fire Protection District, headquartered in Sumner. The grant program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U. S. Department of Homeland Security.Christy FPD will be receiving $89,205 in Operations and Safety funds. The district will use the funds to purchased self-contained breathing apparatus. The district serves areas of Crawford, Lawrence, and Richland counties."The Christy fire district should be commended for their successful efforts in obtaining this competitive federal grant," Shimkus said. "My office is pleased to assist with fire grants or any other federal grant program application. Just contact one of my local offices for assistance.”Fire departments and non hospital-affiliated emergency medical services are eligible for AFG grants. Those serving less than 20,001 residents are required to provide a five percent non-federal match for these one year grants. Departments serving between 20,001 and 50,000 residents must provide a ten percent match, and larger departments must provide a 20 percent match.###
06.20.2013	Danville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents in Champaign County next month. Shimkus will be at the Village of Mahomet Administration Building, 503 East Main Street, on Wednesday, July 3, from 3:00 till 4:30 p.m.Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on July 3 in Mahomet should call (217)446-0664. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping wait times to a minimum."In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.”For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832.Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may also sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter (@RepShimkus) account and a Facebook page.Those requiring special accommodations should call (217)446-0664 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made.###
06.18.2013	Harrisburg, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents in Saline County next month. Shimkus will be at the Eldorado City Hall, 901 Fourth Street, on Tuesday, July 2, from 10:00 till 11:30 a.m. Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on July 2 in Eldorado should call (618)252-8271. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping wait times to a minimum. "In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.” For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946. Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may also sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter (@RepShimkus) account and a Facebook page. Those requiring special accommodations should call (618)252-8271 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made. ###
06.18.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (HR 1797) in the U.S. House Tuesday.“As modern science advances, we are gaining a better understanding of childhood development from conception to birth,” Shimkus noted. “Scientists are now finding that by 20 weeks after conception, babies can experience pain.“I – and millions of others – were shocked and horrified by the actions of Dr. Kermit Gosnell. We must act to prevent future Gosnells from performing similar abortions.“The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act will provide national protection to unborn children who are capable of feeling pain and will penalize those who perform abortions after 20 weeks,” Shimkus added. “New scientific evidence about pre-natal development and Dr. Gosnell’s trial compels us to examine this issue.” Exemptions exist for pregnancies that are a result of rape or incest against a minor if those were reported to authorities and for the physical life of the pregnant woman.The measure passed the House but is unlikely to be brought up for a vote in the Senate. The President already issued a veto threat.###
06.14.2013	Danville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown. “These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone or having to drive to Danville,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.” A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Ford County on Monday, June 24, 1:00 till 2:30 p.m. at the Paxton Civic Center, 601 South Fall Street. Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ office at 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832. The telephone number is (217)446-0664. More information on services offered by the Congressman's office is also available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. You may sign up for a weekly e-newsletter on the website in order to stay informed of the Congressman and issues from Washington, DC. Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours. ###
06.07.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is announcing his co-sponsorship of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (HR 7), which was introduced last month by Congressman Chris Smith of New Jersey. “As a Christian who is 100 percent pro-life, I am saddened by the destruction of human life that continues in our country,” Shimkus said. “While we cannot outlaw abortion due to the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court ruling, we certainly should not spend taxpayer funds on it.” This legislation would establish a government-wide ban on abortion funding that is currently put on in the annual appropriations process, including the Hyde amendment, Helms amendment, Smith amendment, and Dornan amendment. Those amendments ban abortion funding in various government agencies or programs. Shimkus is also a cosponsor of the Health Care Conscience Rights Act (HR 940) introduced by Congresswoman Diane Black of Tennessee. This legislation would exempt individuals and health care organizations from the Obamacare mandate to have abortion coverage in insurance or to perform abortions in facilities. There could also be no penalty for opting out of abortion coverage. Additional pro-life legislation that Shimkus is co-sponsoring includes:+ Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act (HR 732) – prohibits transportation of a minor across state lines for the purpose of an abortion.+ Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act (HR 217) – prohibits family planning funding to organizations that provide abortions. ###
06.05.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) reports that the U.S. House passed the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (HR 2216) Tuesday night 421-4. This was the first of 12 appropriation bills that fund the federal government to pass the House. The legislation would fund Veterans Benefits Administration programs, including readjustment benefits and housing, and the Veterans Health Administration. The $73.3 billion in discretionary funding is an increase over last year’s appropriation. “Some items of local interest would be that any new hospital construction is prohibited and that funds are provided for an electronic medical records system,” Shimkus noted. “In addition, overtime funds were directed to those regions – including Illinois – which have disability applications pending for over one year.” The bill also prohibits funds from being spent to relocate prisoners from Guantanamo Bay, prohibits first class travel by government employees, promotes American steel in any construction projects, and requires E-verify for contracted companies. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration; however, the President has indicated that he will veto any appropriation bills until a larger budget deal is reached. ###
06.03.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is writing Governor Quinn urging him to sign the fracking bill, SB 1715, into state law. “This bill has the strictest environmental protections in the nation, and at the same time has the support of the oil and gas industry,” Shimkus noted. “Establishing the guidelines for fracking in the state will bring immediate jobs to the rural areas of Illinois that I represent.” The General Assembly passed the bill with wide bipartisan majorities in both the House and Senate last week. ### Shimkus to Quinn on fracking.pdf
05.23.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) supported House passage of the Smarter Solutions for Students Act (HR 1911), which passed Thursday. “Without taking action, student loan rates would go from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1,” Shimkus explained. “The House Republican solution is to take this out of the political process, and tie student loan interest rates to the 10 year Treasury note rate.” Student loan debt is second only to home mortgages with a balance of nearly $1 trillion nationwide. The average student graduates with $26,000 in loans. “In reality, many students have far greater debt that can be a burden. This plan could result in lower interest rates at the current time,” Shimkus added. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. ###
05.22.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted in the House Wednesday for legislation that would enable construction of the Keystone XL pipeline (HR 3), which would bring North American crude oil to the Midwest and Gulf Coast refineries. “The Administration is holding up this project that would create 20,000 direct jobs with its construction and thousands of additional spinoff jobs. This bill takes the President out of the decision making and allows the project to move forward,” Shimkus said. “A report issued earlier this week cited crude oil prices as the reason for high gas prices. Keystone XL brings more crude oil into the United States,” he added. Both business groups and labor agree that the Keystone XL pipeline should be built, including the Associated General Contractors of America, Chamber of Commerce of the United States, International Union of Operating Engineers, and Laborers’ International Union of North America among many others. The bill passed with bipartisan support, 241-175. Congressman Lee Terry of Nebraska was the sponsor, and the pipeline would run through his state. “This project doesn’t even involve spending federal money and has been studied for years. It should be approved today,” Shimkus noted. ###
05.16.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for a bill (HR 45) that would repeal the entire Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or Obamacare as it is referred to. The bill passed the House Thursday.“The Republican House has voted on this before, and we understand that the Democratic Senate will not take this up; however, it is important to restate our opposition to this Washington takeover of healthcare,” Shimkus said. “All the promises the President and his supporters made about this legislation are now falling through.”Examples of the false promises include:+ lower premiums…the Secretary of Health and Human Services herself admitted that premiums will go up.+ you can keep the plan you have…between 20 and 65 million American may lose their employer-sponsored insurance according to studies, including the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. This does not include the millions of others who face reduced benefits under their plans.Additional problems:+ tax hikes and compliance costs…Obamacare contains 21 tax hikes, totally over $800 billion dollars, and the Obama Administration itself estimates that it will take over 190 million hours annually to comply with the law.+ jobs and the economy…numerous examples of surveys and specific companies have said they will keep employees at part-time status either to not come under Obamacare provisions or will not hire additional staff due to the cost of Obamacare.“Unemployment continues to remain at levels higher than I would like to see,” Shimkus noted. “Part of the issue is the reluctance on the part of businesses to hire new employees, which can be attributed to Obamacare. We need to get rid of the law in order to help our economy get back on its feet.“Eight different parts of Obamacare have already been repealed, and we will likely have to continue down that path since the Senate is unlikely to move on this bill repealing the entire law.”###
04.25.2013	Washington, DC - In an Energy and Commerce subcommittee hearing today, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) asked questions about the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) Lifeline program and mentioned the Obamaphone.net website, which was shortly thereafter taken down. The phrase “Obama phone” was initiated by a supporter of the President in a video that is still available online. And the obamaphone.net website directed potential applicants through the process of obtaining a free government cell phone. “While the intent of the Lifeline program has some merit providing a vital connection for the elderly or poor, it has grown into free cell phones for way too many people,” Shimkus said. “I am pleased that the FCC has taken some steps to reign the program in, but they still do not even have a budget for the Lifeline program.” In the hearing, Shimkus also pointed out that regardless of the program’s intent, “You are doing a terrible job of marketing it. Because, you have lost the public opinion on this, and it’s tough to get the genie back in the bottle.” A video of his comments and questions is available at www.youtube.com/repshimkus. ###
04.19.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Illinoisans work till April 25 on average to pay for all their federal, state, and local taxes, according to Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15). The average for the nation as a whole was April 18. “The total taxes combined amount to $4.22 trillion – over 29 percent of the nation’s income. That percentage equates to 108 days of the year for the national average,” Shimkus explained. “Illinois is tied for the fourth highest tax burden,” he noted. “This is not a good statistic for our state. Job creation is hindered, and businesses are forced out to lower tax states.” The states with the earliest Tax Freedom Day or lowest tax burdens are Louisiana and Mississippi (March 29). The state with the highest tax burden and latest Tax Freedom Day is Connecticut on May 13. The Tax Foundation in Washington, DC, calculates the Tax Freedom Day based on available statistical information. Income levels do affect a state’s share of federal tax burden. ###
04.05.2013	Edwardsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) used a local Farm Bureau office to announce his intent to introduce legislation that would reauthorize the Animal Drug User Fee Act (ADUFA). The original law went into effect in 2003 and was extended in 2008. It expires this year. “This legislation will provide the resources necessary for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to enhance the approval process for drugs that affect food safety as well as helping pets live longer and healthier lives,” Shimkus explained. “Veterinarians will be able to better treat, control, and prevent diseases. And livestock and poultry producers will be able to keep food animals healthy. Consumers and pet owners will all benefit,” he noted. Participating in the announcement was Darryl Brinkmann of Carlyle, representing the Illinois Farm Bureau. Mr. Brinkmann is also a cattleman. Dan Sprague with The Maschhoffs represented the Illinois Pork Producers Association. Companion legislation to reauthorize the Animal Generic Drug User Fee Act (AGDUFA) will be introduced concurrently by Congressman Cory Gardner (R, Colorado-4). A legislative hearing on these bills will be held in the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health on Tuesday, April 9. Shimkus serves as a senior member on that subcommittee. “This reauthorization is important for both food safety and animal health. I look forward to moving this legislation through committee and House passage in a bipartisan fashion,” Shimkus added. ###
04.03.2013	Effingham, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown. “These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone or having to drive to Effingham,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.” A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Shelby County on Wednesday, April 17, 10:30 a.m. till 12 noon at the Moweaqua City Hall, 122 North Main Street. Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ local office at 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401. The telephone number is (217)347-7947. More information on services offered by the Congressman's office is also available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. You may sign up for a weekly e-newsletter on the website in order to stay informed of the Congressman and issues from Washington, DC. Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours. ###
04.02.2013	Danville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is now accepting entries for the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. The contest is open to high school students in the 15th Congressional District, and entries are due by April 26. “This is an annual competition that we are pleased to participate in,” Shimkus said. “The winning artwork from my district gets to hang in Washington, DC, in a tunnel that connects the Cannon House Office Building and the Capitol. Thousands of staff and visitors will see the artwork.” Acceptable mediums include: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, photographs, computer-generated art, and mixed media. Artwork must be two-dimensional, no larger than 28 inches by 28 inches by four inches including the frame, cannot weigh more than 15 pounds, and be original in content. Finalists will be posted on the Congressman’s Facebook site for voting by the public. The winning entry is then invited to participate in a ceremony in Washington, and Southwest Airlines will fly the winner and a guest out for free. Entries must be accompanied by a Student Information and Release Form, which includes a release by the student, art teacher, and a parent. Guidelines and the form are posted on Shimkus’ website at www.shimkus.house.gov under Constituent Services. For more information contact Shimkus’ Danville office at 217-446-0664. Entries may be delivered to any of Shimkus’ offices in Danville, Effingham, Maryville, or Harrisburg prior to the April 26 deadline. ###
03.28.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown. “These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone or having to drive to Maryville,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.” A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Washington County on Thursday, April 11, 12:00 – 1:30 p.m. at the Washington County Farm Bureau, 246 West St. Louis Street (Route 15), Nashville. Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ office at 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. The telephone number is (618)288-7190. More information on services offered by the Congressman's office is also available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. You may sign up for a weekly e-newsletter on the website in order to stay informed of the Congressman and issues from Washington, DC. Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours. ###
03.22.2013	Danville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents on in both Douglas and Champaign counties. Shimkus will be at Room 218 of Rantoul Village Hall, 333 South Tanner Street, from 3:30 – 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, April 3, and at the County Board Room of the Douglas County Courthouse, 401 South Center Street, Tuscola, from 9:30 – 11:00 a.m. on Thursday, April 4. Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on April 3 in Rantoul or April 4 in Tuscola should call (217)446-0664. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping wait times to a minimum. "In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.” For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832. Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may also sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter (@RepShimkus) account and a Facebook page. Those requiring special accommodations should call (217)446-0664 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made. ###
03.22.2013	Harrisburg, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown. “These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone or having to drive to Harrisburg,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.” A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Hamilton County on Thursday, April 4, 10:00 till 11:30 a.m. in the Basement Meeting Room of the Hamilton County Courthouse, 100 South Jackson Street, McLeansboro. Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ local office at City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946. The telephone number is (618)252-8271. More information on services offered by the Congressman's office is also available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. You may sign up for a weekly e-newsletter on the website in order to stay informed of the Congressman and issues from Washington, DC. Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours. ###
03.21.2013	Government Also Funded Through September Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) voted for a federal budget outline for fiscal years 2014-2023 that brings it into balance over those ten years. The plan, sponsored by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R, Wisconsin-1), cuts wasteful spending, updates the tax code, reforms welfare programs like Medicaid, and strengthens Medicare in order for it to deliver promises into the future. “Washington needs a dose of fiscal sanity. And bringing the federal budget into balance over ten years will allow the economy to grow,” Shimkus said. “As Speaker Boehner pointed out, we have spent more than we take in for 50 of the last 60 years. That has got to stop. “The Republican budget plan tackles our real spending problems, repairs our safety net programs that protect the poor, addresses the tax code, and responsibly balances our budget. “The Senate’s proposed budget raises taxes $1.5 trillion and seeks another stimulus, never balancing the budget in the process,” Shimkus added. “This reminds me of how the State of Illinois has tried – yet failed – to balance its budget with a tax hike.” Two Stanford professors published a commentary in Monday’s Wall Street Journal that noted, “According to our research, the spending restraint and balanced-budget parts of the House Budget Committee plan would boost the economy immediately. With the Budget Committee’s proposed tax reform included, the immediate impact would be even larger.” They continue, “Also, by 2023, the publicly held federal debt relative to GDP would decline to 55% from its current high level of 76%.” “That means this plan moves us away from the problems seen in Greece and other European countries, which also have high government dependency, toward fiscal sanity and economic stability,” Shimkus stated. The House passed its budget plan March 21 on a strictly partisan vote of 221-207. The Senate is also expected to pass its budget this week. It is unlikely the two will agree to a joint budget resolution, but a Conference Committee will be established in order to attempt to reach an agreement. In addition to the ten year budget outline, the House approved the funding for the remainder of fiscal year 2013, which ends September 30. The total spending constraints of sequestration remain in place. “While no one wants to see furloughs and other cuts, we must start to take the steps necessary to bring our budget into balance,” Shimkus noted. “The only solution is to look at our big spending items, which are Social Security and Medicare.” Shimkus’ comments on the House floor regarding the budget can be viewed on his YouTube website at youtube.com/repshimkus. ###
03.15.2013	Harrisburg, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents on Tuesday, March 26, in Saline County. Shimkus will be at his office in Room 12 of Harrisburg City Hall, 110 East Locust Street, from 10:00 – 11:30 a.m. Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on March 26 in Harrisburg should call (618)252-8271. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping wait times to a minimum. "In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.” For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at City Hall Room 12, 110 E. Locust St., Harrisburg, IL 62946. Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may also sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter (@RepShimkus) account and a Facebook page. Those requiring special accommodations should call (618)252-8271 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made. ###
03.15.2013	Harrisburg, Illinois...Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents on Tuesday, March 26, in Saline County. Shimkus will be at his office in Room 12 of Harrisburg City Hall, 110 East Locust Street, from 10:00 – 11:30 a.m.Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on March 26 in Harrisburg should call (618)252-8271. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping wait times to a minimum."In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.”For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at City Hall Room 12, 110 E. Locust St., Harrisburg, IL 62946. Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may also sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter (@RepShimkus) account and a Facebook page.Those requiring special accommodations should call (618)252-8271 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made.###
03.13.2013	Effingham, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is pleased to announce funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program to the St. Peter Fire Protection District. The grant program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U. S. Department of Homeland Security. St. Peter will be receiving $49,400 in Operations and Safety funds. This program funds firefighter training; firefighter equipment; firefighter personal protective equipment; firefighter wellness and fitness; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. "St. Peter is to be commended for their successful efforts in obtaining this competitive federal grant," Shimkus said. "My office is pleased to assist with fire grants or any other federal grant program application. Just contact my Effingham office at 217-347-7947.” Fire departments and non hospital-affiliated emergency medical services are eligible for AFG grants. Those serving less than 20,001 residents are required to provide a five percent non-federal match for these one year grants. Departments serving between 20,001 and 50,000 residents must provide a ten percent match, and larger departments must provide a 20 percent match. ###
03.13.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) recognized the Nashville Community High School Class 2A state champion Hornettes on their victory by entering a statement into the permanent record of the United States House of Representatives. The statement reads: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge the outstanding victory of the Nashville Community High School Hornettes girls' basketball team in the recent State Championships. “The Hornettes put together an outstanding performance against their division's top ranked team to take the Class 2A State Championship 42-29. I would like to congratulate Coach Wayne Harre, whose efforts over the past 12 seasons as well as those of Nashville High School's coaching staff, teachers and administrators, have brought to fruition the talent of our youth and seen these fine young ladies achieve an outstanding result. “These young ladies: Erica Brown, Madi May, Katy Kosydor, Kiley Pelker, Emily Gill, Shawn Rennegarbe, Rachel Reid, Jordi Harre, Hannah Yung, Shaye Harre, Alli Kellerman, Haylee Kania, Jeni Krawiecki and Madison Frerker have represented themselves, their school, and their community with distinction. I look forward to watching their future successes in both their academic and athletic pursuits and wish them all the best in these endeavors. “Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the Nashville Hornettes on a job well done.” This Congressional Record entry can be accessed online at https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CREC-2013-03-04/pdf/CREC-2013-03-04-pt1-PgE233-6.pdf#page=1. ###
03.08.2013	Danville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown. “These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone or having to drive to Danville,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.” A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Champaign County on Monday, March 18, 10:00 till 11:30 a.m. at the St. Joseph Village Hall Board Room, 207 East Lincoln Street. Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ local office at 201 North Vermilion Street, Suite 218, Danville, IL 61832. The telephone number is (217)446-0664. More information on services offered by the Congressman's office is also available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. You may sign up for a weekly e-newsletter on the website in order to stay informed of the Congressman and issues from Washington, DC. Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours. ###
03.08.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents on Friday, March 22, in Madison County. Shimkus will be at the Highland City Hall, 1115 South Broadway (Route 160), from 1:30 – 3:00 p.m. Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on March 22 in Highland should call (618)288-7190. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping wait times to a minimum. "In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.” For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may also sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter (@RepShimkus) account and a Facebook page. Those requiring special accommodations should call (618)288-7190 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made. ###
03.06.2013	Effingham, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has a tradition of having his staff hold office hours in addition to those he holds himself. This is an opportunity to meet with someone from Shimkus’ office in your hometown. “These office hours allow you to meet face to face with my staff instead of over the telephone or having to drive to Effingham,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding my office or the federal government.” A member of Shimkus’ staff will be in Richland County on Wednesday, March 13, 10:00 till 11:30 a.m. at the Richland County Board Room, 211 West Market Street, Olney. Those who cannot attend in person may contact Shimkus’ local office at 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401. The telephone number is (217)347-7947. More information on services offered by the Congressman's office is also available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. You may sign up for a weekly e-newsletter on the website in order to stay informed of the Congressman and issues from Washington, DC. Constituents requiring special accommodations should call at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours. ###
03.01.2013	Effingham, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) will be available to meet with local constituents on Monday, March 11, in Fayette County. Shimkus will be at the Oval Office in the Fayette County Courthouse, 221 South Seventh Street, Vandalia, from 2:30 till 4:00 p.m. Those interested in scheduling an appointment with Shimkus on March 11 in Vandalia should call (217)347-7947. Appointments are not necessary but are helpful in keeping wait times to a minimum. "In these sessions I get to hear personally from people about the problems they are facing in dealing with the federal government or hear their positions on issues that I am voting on," Shimkus explained. "These are one-on-one meetings in order to give individuals privacy and allow them to speak honestly and open about their concern with me.” For those unable to attend in person, you may contact Congressman Shimkus by mail at 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401. Shimkus maintains a website at shimkus.house.gov that has a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may also sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website or send a message to the Congressman. He also has a Twitter (@RepShimkus) account and a Facebook page. Those requiring special accommodations should call (217)347-7947 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that arrangements can be made. ###
03.01.2013	Maryville, Illinois - “Whether it’s the sequester or some other set of spending cuts, the reality is that with a $16.6 trillion debt…we must cut spending,” Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) said on the first day across-the-board spending cuts went into effect. “While the point of putting sequestration into place was to force a ‘grand bargain’ as some have called it, I do not see a big package to deal with long-term issues coming forth soon,” he noted. “The House has twice passed bills that would substitute the cuts with specific cuts that would be more manageable, and the Senate has not passed any type of substitute. “While there is talk of furloughs and other cuts, how do you cut a budget without some reduction in services? And most cities and states went through a similar process a few years ago. The federal government is finally catching up. “In order for the budget to really be fixed, we must look at reforms to Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid,” Shimkus added. “If we do not, we will never balance the federal budget.” ###
02.15.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Following his election to the new 15th Congressional District last November, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has relocated his district offices. “In order to serve the 700,000 plus residents of this district, I am opening four offices in all regions of the 33 county district,” Shimkus said. “While some people still want to physically come to the office, we can assist over the phone or via fax and email in many cases. “I urge constituents to also use my website (shimkus.house.gov) to get information or contact me,” Shimkus added. The new district office addresses and telephone numbers are: 15 Professional Park Drive Maryville, IL 62062 (618)288-7190 201 North Vermilion Street Suite 218 Danville, IL 61832 (217)446-0664 This office is in the Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse in downtown Danville. 101 North Fourth Street Suite 303 Effingham, IL 62401 (217)347-7947 This office is in the Effingham County Building across from the Courthouse. City Hall Room 12 110 East Locust Street Harrisburg, IL 62946 (618)252-8271 This office is in the basement of Harrisburg City Hall. The Congressman’s Washington office remains: 2452 Rayburn Washington, DC 20515 (202)225-5271 ###
02.15.2013	Washington, DC - The House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy, chaired by Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15), held a hearing today on “The Role of the States in Protecting the Environment Under Current Law.” Shimkus contends that the states are in a better position many times to regulate the specific needs in their communities rather than a one size fits all approach dictated by Washington. The hearing heard from state regulators about their activities and involvement implementing state and federal laws. In his opening statement Shimkus said: “This hearing will help raise awareness and set the stage for future discussions we are going to have on environmental protection. Many of us get caught up with what the U.S. EPA thinks or what it can do and fail to focus on the states and what they can and must do. “The states are by no means junior regulators or the minor leagues of environmental protection. Rather, their plate is twice as full. To carry out federal environmental law, states have a lot of delegated authority. But states also have their own protective laws. Often, beyond anything the federal government has asked. “State regulators have every bit the same educational background, expertise, desire to protect the environment, and sense of professionalism as any employee at EPA, with the added bonus of actually living in the communities they are trying to make safe. They intimately know the terrain being regulated.” Specifically, fracking is an issue that is currently dealt with at the state level. Shimkus cited Maryland and other states as having implemented rules and regulations that are working. “I want to encourage the General Assembly to pass common sense legislation that will allow for the development of new natural gas production in our state,” Shimkus added. “The Senate reached a unanimous agreement last year, and I hope they take this issue up again.” The Illinois Chamber Foundation’s study found that over 40,000 jobs and $9 billion in economic activity could be generated if natural gas development moved forward. “The missing piece is state guidelines,” Shimkus noted. ###
02.12.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) issued the followed statement on the President’s State of the Union speech: “The President laid out an agenda for our nation that I disagree with. He proposed many ideas about making government bigger and more intrusive. He wants to raise taxes, limit gun ownership, and over-regulate the climate…none of which will help grow the economy and reduce the unemployment rate. “Our national debt stands at over $16 trillion, and yet the President claims we’re over half-way towards a ‘goal’ for deficit reduction. House Republicans have promised to restrain spending so that we achieve a balanced budget in ten years without additional tax increases. “Democrat Whip Steny Hoyer recently chided me on the House floor for saying that the sequester budget cuts were going to happen. House Republicans passed sequester replacements twice already, so Democrats need to come up with equal cuts then, or – as I said – the across the board sequester cuts will happen. “While I sympathize with the families of gun violence, legal gun owners should not be punished for the actions of criminals. States, including Illinois, should fully participate in existing law and provide mental health and criminal information to the federal database for background checks. “Any push with regard to climate change should come through legislative action by Congress, not through fiat by the President. Cap-and-trade legislation has already failed in the Democrat controlled Senate. This bi-partisan opposition remains in Congress and trying to resurrect these failed policies or pursing efforts such as a carbon tax are misguided and would only serve to create further job loss and raise costs to working families still struggling to pay their bills. “Now, is renewable energy a valuable part of our energy portfolio – yes. But, can it replace base load generating facilities – no. By putting our coal generating power plants out of business, the President and his Administration are harming the economy. They are taxing us through regulations and putting all our eggs in one basket when it comes to sustainable low-cost electricity generation. “One of my overused refrains is that in order to have employees, you must have employers. Employers will not add jobs or start new business ventures when our government continues to create uncertainty about taxes and regulations. The President doesn’t seem to get that. “On the big issues of our budget, spending, and taxes, the President doesn’t seem willing to work with the Republican majority in the House. In fact, he’s moved farther away than ever.” ###
02.11.2013	Danville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) today visited the VA Illiana Health Care System (VAIHCS), handing out valentines to patients while expressing support for the Danville facility. A proposal to restructure VAIHCS programs and services has gone up the VA’s chain of command, drawing reaction from stakeholders worried about the loss of staff and supportive jobs, as well as the effect on the local economy. “At tomorrow night’s State of the Union address, I intend to again personally invite Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki to visit the campus and discuss VA plans for Danville,” Shimkus said. “I previously invited the secretary about a year ago, when I expressed my opposition to a proposal for a second campus in Champaign-Urbana, which would in reality move all primary care out of Danville. Until he sees the fine work being done here, I don’t believe the VA should reduce the scope of its services in Danville.” As part of his annual Valentines for Heroes program, Shimkus delivered some of the thousands of valentines collected by his offices for distribution to veterans and active-duty military in and around his Congressional district. “I am continually overwhelmed by the kindness and support given by my constituents toward our veterans and military men and women,” Shimkus said. “The program seems to get bigger and bigger every year.” ###
02.06.2013	Washington, DC... Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) joined colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday in voting for the Require a PLAN Act, H.R. 444, which passed 253-167. The bill would require the President to produce a balanced budget or submit a plan that indicates the earliest year he believes balance can be achieved and the policies he would implement to get there. “While House Republicans have passed responsible budgets in an attempt to restore economic growth, the President is expected to miss the legal deadline for his annual budget proposal for the fourth time in five years,” Shimkus noted. “He continues to show he is not serious about solving our nation’s spending problem. That is not acceptable. “With the previously passed No Budget, No Pay Act, the House served notice to the Senate that without a budget, members should not get paid. It is time to make the President act on his legal responsibility for the budget, as well, so that we can reduce the mountains of debt facing our children and grandchildren.” ###
02.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen John Shimkus (IL-15), Rodney Davis (IL-13), and Bill Enyart (IL-12) joined forces on behalf of southwestern Illinois families and businesses to urge the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) to approve a plan that ensures the Metro East levees stay accredited. The Congressmen wrote a letter to IEPA Hearing Officer Dean Studer in support of the Southwestern Illinois Flood Prevention District Council’s (FPD Council) proposed repairs to the 74 mile levee system. Without IEPA’s permit the levee system could lose accreditation, which would force southwestern Illinois families and businesses to pay higher insurance rates and would pose significant economic risks to the region. The three Congressmen believe that FDP Council’s proposal will not jeopardize water quality while protecting Southern Illinois homeowners and businesses and are submitting their comments regarding the Section 401 Water Quality Certification Hearing. The letter reads: Hearing Officer Studer: As Members of Congress representing areas of Madison, Monroe and St. Clair counties, we are well aware of the vital protection the St. Louis Metro East levees provide to our constituents. The repairs proposed by the Southwest Illinois Flood Prevention District Council (FPD Council) will ensure the 74-mile levee system will remain accredited by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). A deaccreditation will designate areas behind the levee as Special Flood Hazard Area, leading to higher insurance rates for individuals and businesses behind the levees and devastating the local economy. After working closely with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA), the FPD Council has proposed a plan that will protect homes and businesses while keeping the importance of the region’s water quality in mind. Evaluations conducted by the FPD Council’s consultants in conjunction with the IEPA have shown the proposal will have little or no impact on water quality, leading to IEPA’s tentative determination to issue Section 401 Water Quality Certifications. We support the efforts of the FPD Council to ensure the safety of our constituents and the economic health of the St. Louis Metro East area and respectfully urge the IEPA to issue the three Section 401 Water Quality Certifications submitted by the FPD Council. The letter was submitted electronically on January 31. IEPA is accepting comments until February 4 on its preliminary assessment that water quality would be attained. ###
01.30.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) has joined 76 colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama opposing his recently announced gun control proposals. Pertinent excerpts include (A copy of the full letter is attached.): “The desire for prompt action should never cause us to overlook our founding document, our most sacred beliefs, the Constitution.” “Your proposals do not adequately recognize that simply having access to a firearm does not cause murderous intent or criminal nature.” “A gun does not turn an otherwise law-abiding citizen into a murderer, but that gun may protect a law-abiding citizen from one.” Shimkus added, “As a pro-Second Amendment advocate in Congress, I was not surprised by the proposals from the President and Senator Feinstein. What I am concerned about is the President not working with Congress. Our letter expresses a desire for that over unilateral action from the Administration. “There are many laws currently on the books that need to be fully enforced. We do not need more laws. In addition, states need to be doing their part in providing criminal and mental health records into the background check system. Finally, we must understand that we cannot regulate the evil that creates a lack of respect for human life.” ###
01.29.2013	Contact: Haley Morris (Enyart): Haley.Morris@mail.house.gov Steven.Tomaszewski (Shimkus) Steven.Tomaszewski@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representatives John Shimkus (IL-15) and Bill Enyart (IL-12) announced today that they will co-chair the Congressional Coal Caucus to promote Southern Illinois coal and good jobs. Illinois reported a record year for coal production in 2012 thanks in large part to Southern Illinois workers and mines. As co-chairs of the Congressional Coal Caucus, Congressmen Shimkus and Enyart will work together to advance Southern Illinois coal production, workers, and good jobs that strengthen our middle class. Shimkus said: “Coal helps keep our electric utility costs down, as well as providing jobs to thousands of Illinoisans. We need to work to increase both the employment and use of coal by advancing rules and regulations that don’t unnecessarily shut down mines and power plants. One of those ways is through bipartisan coal ash legislation that passed the House last year. I will work with Congressman Enyart to advance that and other measures that promote jobs and low cost power.” Enyart said: “I’m proud to co-chair the Congressional Coal Caucus with Congressman Shimkus because Southern Illinois’ dedicated workforce and abundant natural resources like coal are key to rebuilding our economy and strengthening the future for our children and grandchildren. Our coal industry in Southern Illinoiscan provide new opportunity and good jobs that support middle class families and power our communities.” Enyart recently delivered a speech on the U.S. House Floor recognizing Southern Illinois coal and workers. Watch it here: https://www.c-spanvideo.org/clip/4303150 . ###
01.25.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is announcing his nominations to the four military service academies. The Congressman nominates, and then the academies themselves make the final determination whether a nominee receives an appointment to attend that academy. "The academies look at academics, leadership, and physical fitness in order to assure a young person is well-rounded and able to cope with the uniqueness of attending a military school," Shimkus said. "As a West Point graduate, I am very proud of these young men and women for considering an academy for their college choice and am grateful for the honor of being able to nominate.” The four military academies that require Congressional nominations are: United States Military Academy, West Point, New York; United States Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colorado; United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland; and United States Merchant Marine Academy, Kings Point, New York. These nominations were made from within the Congressman’s old 19th District boundaries, not his current 15th District. High school juniors, college students, or current members of the military who are residents of the 15th District and wish to attend an academy beginning in 2014 can request a nomination packet by writing Congressman John Shimkus, 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062. Those packets with complete requirements will be sent out in late summer. Potential nominees complete applications with both the Congressman's office and each individual academy. ### Nominees to U.S. Military Academies - Class of 2017 AIR FORCE ACADEMY Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Jake Grimes Dieterich Deven Hudson-Greenlee Centralia Jeffrey Keitel Effingham Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Trevor Perrott Olney Matthew Sefton Brownstown Brittany Wheat Stewardson MILITARY ACADEMY (West Point) Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Philip Rexing McLeansboro Cory Snyder Jerseyville Andrew Young Harvel MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Chloerisa Carr Harrisburg Harry Garner Maryville Lucas Smith Vandalia NAVAL ACADEMY Jeffery Bradley Vandalia Nicholas Ferrari Edwardsville Lucas Foppe Breese Nicholas Fulkrod Bethalto Harry Garner Maryville Devon Krueger Dow Steven Munie Collinsville Lucas Smith Vandalia Abigail Steck Rochester Scott Van Hoy Alton AIR FORCE ACADEMY Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Jake Grimes Dieterich Deven Hudson-Greenlee Centralia Jeffrey Keitel Effingham Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Trevor Perrott Olney Matthew Sefton Brownstown Brittany Wheat Stewardson MILITARY ACADEMY (West Point) Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Philip Rexing McLeansboro Cory Snyder Jerseyville Andrew Young Harvel MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Chloerisa Carr Harrisburg Harry Garner Maryville Lucas Smith Vandalia NAVAL ACADEMY Jeffery Bradley Vandalia Nicholas Ferrari Edwardsville Lucas Foppe Breese Nicholas Fulkrod Bethalto Harry Garner Maryville Devon Krueger Dow Steven Munie Collinsville Lucas Smith Vandalia Abigail Steck Rochester Scott Van Hoy Alton AIR FORCE ACADEMY Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Jake Grimes Dieterich Deven Hudson-Greenlee Centralia Jeffrey Keitel Effingham Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Trevor Perrott Olney Matthew Sefton Brownstown Brittany Wheat Stewardson MILITARY ACADEMY (West Point) Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Philip Rexing McLeansboro Cory Snyder Jerseyville Andrew Young Harvel MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Chloerisa Carr Harrisburg Harry Garner Maryville Lucas Smith Vandalia NAVAL ACADEMY Jeffery Bradley Vandalia Nicholas Ferrari Edwardsville Lucas Foppe Breese Nicholas Fulkrod Bethalto Harry Garner Maryville Devon Krueger Dow Steven Munie Collinsville Lucas Smith Vandalia Abigail Steck Rochester Scott Van Hoy Alton AIR FORCE ACADEMY Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Jake Grimes Dieterich Deven Hudson-Greenlee Centralia Jeffrey Keitel Effingham Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Trevor Perrott Olney Matthew Sefton Brownstown Brittany Wheat Stewardson MILITARY ACADEMY (West Point) Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Philip Rexing McLeansboro Cory Snyder Jerseyville Andrew Young Harvel MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Chloerisa Carr Harrisburg Harry Garner Maryville Lucas Smith Vandalia NAVAL ACADEMY Jeffery Bradley Vandalia Nicholas Ferrari Edwardsville Lucas Foppe Breese Nicholas Fulkrod Bethalto Harry Garner Maryville Devon Krueger Dow Steven Munie Collinsville Lucas Smith Vandalia Abigail Steck Rochester Scott Van Hoy Alton AIR FORCE ACADEMY Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Jake Grimes Dieterich Deven Hudson-Greenlee Centralia Jeffrey Keitel Effingham Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Trevor Perrott Olney Matthew Sefton Brownstown Brittany Wheat Stewardson MILITARY ACADEMY (West Point) Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Philip Rexing McLeansboro Cory Snyder Jerseyville Andrew Young Harvel MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Chloerisa Carr Harrisburg Harry Garner Maryville Lucas Smith Vandalia NAVAL ACADEMY Jeffery Bradley Vandalia Nicholas Ferrari Edwardsville Lucas Foppe Breese Nicholas Fulkrod Bethalto Harry Garner Maryville Devon Krueger Dow Steven Munie Collinsville Lucas Smith Vandalia Abigail Steck Rochester Scott Van Hoy Alton AIR FORCE ACADEMY Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Jake Grimes Dieterich Deven Hudson-Greenlee Centralia Jeffrey Keitel Effingham Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Trevor Perrott Olney Matthew Sefton Brownstown Brittany Wheat Stewardson MILITARY ACADEMY (West Point) Meredith Daniels Iuka Chase Finks Taylorville Charles Keller Effingham James Moore Springfield Philip Rexing McLeansboro Cory Snyder Jerseyville Andrew Young Harvel MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY Chloerisa Carr Harrisburg Harry Garner Maryville Lucas Smith Vandalia NAVAL ACADEMY Jeffery Bradley Vandalia Nicholas Ferrari Edwardsville Lucas Foppe Breese Nicholas Fulkrod Bethalto Harry Garner Maryville Devon Krueger Dow Steven Munie Collinsville Lucas Smith Vandalia Abigail Steck Rochester Scott Van Hoy Alton
01.24.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) today announced that he will introduce legislation to name the new Mississippi River Bridge after St. Louis Cardinals’ legend Stan Musial. Davis will be joined in introducing the legislation by Reps. John Shimkus (R-Ill.) and Ann Wagner (R-Mo.), original co-sponsors of the bill. “Stan Musial was more than just one of the greatest baseball players of all time. He was an ambassador for the game of baseball, a war veteran and a kind, upstanding person,” said Davis. “To me, this is a great way to recognize the life and legacy of ‘Stan the Man’ to ensure that he will be remembered by future generations to come and for Cardinals fans to feel a sense of pride and respect each time they cross the river.” “While the Mississippi River often serves as a dividing line between Missouri and Illinois in our region, the St. Louis Cardinals have been able to bridge that divide and have thousands of Illinois fans,” said Shimkus. “Stan Musial is one of the Cardinals’ icons. I cannot imagine a better solution to the naming of the bridge.” "Stan Musial was more than just a great baseball player; he emboldened the virtues of an outstanding citizen,” said Wagner. “As a World War II veteran, he left his professional baseball career to serve his country and never lost his zeal for public service. Throughout his life he always put his community first and he will be truly missed. Hopefully this bridge will remind the people of the St. Louis region about the greatness of 'Stan the man' and the virtue of public service and community." The legislation directs the U.S. Department of Transportation to rename the new I-70 bridge across the Mississippi the “Stan Musial Memorial Bridge.” The bridge is slated to open in 2014. Stan Musial played his entire career for the St. Louis Cardinals and is recognized as one of the greatest hitters of all time. He was named the National League Most Valuable Player three times, won three World Series titles and was named to the Major League Baseball Hall of Fame in 1969. Musial passed away on January 19, 2013. ###
01.23.2013	Washington, DC - “Budgeting in Washington is not an easy process, nor is it logical,” Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) explained. “We first start with a budget, which sets the size of the federal spending pie. Then, after determining the size of the pie, the appropriations process divides the pie into the various federal agencies. “The House has routinely passed budgets under Republican control, and the last two years our budgets have dealt with containing our long-term Medicare spending. However, the Senate has not passed a budget since 2009,” he noted. “The No Budget, No Pay Act of 2013 puts the issue of the debt ceiling aside until both the House and Senate pass budgets,” Shimkus added. “And if one body or the other does not pass a budget, then their salaries would be withheld until a budget is passed, as required by law.” The No Budget, No Pay Act (HR 325) requires the adoption of a budget resolution by April 15. The Treasury Department is also authorized to pay existing bills due through May 18. “It is very difficult to control our spending, when no budget exists over in the Senate. And when the House brings forward its budget, we will do two things – limit discretionary spending to $974 billion, which is the number I supported as part of sequestration; and reach a balanced budget within ten years. “This is the first step in very tough choices that we must make in the months to come,” Shimkus said. ###
01.11.2013	Maryville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) is again asking for participation in his “Valentines for Heroes” program. The Congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution throughout the region to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands of valentines have come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” Shimkus said. “Constituents have been overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present. “School classes, church youth groups, home schoolers, and individuals have all helped brighten a soldier or veterans day,” he added. This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 8 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: * 15 Professional Park Drive, Maryville, IL 62062 * City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 * 101 North Fourth Street, Suite 303, Effingham, IL 62401 * Lobby of 28 West North Street, Danville. This will be a drop-off location only, as the Congressman’s new office is not yet operational in Danville. The few basic rules to follow are to return signed valentines without addressing them to a specific person; without signing your last name or including your address; and without sealing them in individual envelopes. All valentines are reviewed for content and appropriateness. ###
01.03.2013	Will Serve as Chairman of Subcommittee Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) was sworn into office on the floor of the United States House of Representatives this afternoon along with all Members of Congress. Shimkus will be representing the new 15th District, serving 33 counties of the State of Illinois. “Having this privilege to serve the people as a Member of Congress is an honor that I do not take lightly,” Shimkus said. “This job has allowed me to witness events and meet people I would not have otherwise been able to do. “It also provides difficult moments like those earlier this week when hard decisions are required,” he added. “I also have the opportunity to help the people of this district by being their advocate when they have a problem with the federal government,” Shimkus stated. “My staff has assisted thousands over the years, and I know that we will continue that same quality service in the new district.” In Illinois Shimkus plans to have offices in Maryville, Effingham, Danville, and Harrisburg. Locations, hours, telephone numbers, etc. will be announced once they are all fully operational. In Washington Shimkus will continue to serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee. He will chair the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy and serve on three additional subcommittees…Health, Communications and Technology, and Energy and Power. “I love serving on this committee, as it has its roots in the Commerce Clause of the Constitution and was created back in 1795,” Shimkus noted. In the 113th Congress, Shimkus’ subcommittee will continue to ensure that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Energy carry out the Nuclear Waste Policy Act; pass a bill to establish consistent national standards for coal ash that are implemented by the states; ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency does not attempt to intervene in regulation of oil and gas industry exploration through hydraulic fracturing which states have been successfully regulating on their own for many years; and continue oversight of the Department of Homeland Security’s chemical facilities antiterrorism program. As a graduate of West Point and Army veteran, Shimkus continues his involvement with the military and foreign affairs through his service on the United States Military Academy’s Board of Visitors and as a delegate to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In addition, Shimkus is the Republican House co-chair of the Next Gen 911 Caucus, which deals with first responders and technology. Shimkus has his bachelor’s degree in general engineering from the USMA, a teaching certificate from Concordia University Irvine, and his MBA from Southern Illinois University Edwardsville. Shimkus, his wife Karen, and three sons live in Collinsville. They attend Holy Cross Lutheran Church. ### ###Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) was sworn into office on the floor of the United States House of Representatives this afternoon along with all Members of Congress. Shimkus will be representing the new 15th District, serving 33 counties of the State of Illinois. “Having this privilege to serve the people as a Member of Congress is an honor that I do not take lightly,” Shimkus said. “This job has allowed me to witness events and meet people I would not have otherwise been able to do. “It also provides difficult moments like those earlier this week when hard decisions are required,” he added. “I also have the opportunity to help the people of this district by being their advocate when they have a problem with the federal government,” Shimkus stated. “My staff has assisted thousands over the years, and I know that we will continue that same quality service in the new district.” In Illinois Shimkus plans to have offices in Maryville, Effingham, Danville, and Harrisburg. Locations, hours, telephone numbers, etc. will be announced once they are all fully operational. In Washington Shimkus will continue to serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee. He will chair the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy and serve on three additional subcommittees…Health, Communications and Technology, and Energy and Power. “I love serving on this committee, as it has its roots in the Commerce Clause of the Constitution and was created back in 1795,” Shimkus noted. In the 113th Congress, Shimkus’ subcommittee will continue to ensure that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Energy carry out the Nuclear Waste Policy Act; pass a bill to establish consistent national standards for coal ash that are implemented by the states; ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency does not attempt to intervene in regulation of oil and gas industry exploration through hydraulic fracturing which states have been successfully regulating on their own for many years; and continue oversight of the Department of Homeland Security’s chemical facilities antiterrorism program. As a graduate of West Point and Army veteran, Shimkus continues his involvement with the military and foreign affairs through his service on the United States Military Academy’s Board of Visitors and as a delegate to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In addition, Shimkus is the Republican House co-chair of the Next Gen 911 Caucus, which deals with first responders and technology. Shimkus has his bachelor’s degree in general engineering from the USMA, a teaching certificate from Concordia University Irvine, and his MBA from Southern Illinois University Edwardsville. Shimkus, his wife Karen, and three sons live in Collinsville. They attend Holy Cross Lutheran Church. ###Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-15) was sworn into office on the floor of the United States House of Representatives this afternoon along with all Members of Congress. Shimkus will be representing the new 15th District, serving 33 counties of the State of Illinois. “Having this privilege to serve the people as a Member of Congress is an honor that I do not take lightly,” Shimkus said. “This job has allowed me to witness events and meet people I would not have otherwise been able to do. “It also provides difficult moments like those earlier this week when hard decisions are required,” he added. “I also have the opportunity to help the people of this district by being their advocate when they have a problem with the federal government,” Shimkus stated. “My staff has assisted thousands over the years, and I know that we will continue that same quality service in the new district.” In Illinois Shimkus plans to have offices in Maryville, Effingham, Danville, and Harrisburg. Locations, hours, telephone numbers, etc. will be announced once they are all fully operational. In Washington Shimkus will continue to serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee. He will chair the Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy and serve on three additional subcommittees…Health, Communications and Technology, and Energy and Power. “I love serving on this committee, as it has its roots in the Commerce Clause of the Constitution and was created back in 1795,” Shimkus noted. In the 113th Congress, Shimkus’ subcommittee will continue to ensure that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Department of Energy carry out the Nuclear Waste Policy Act; pass a bill to establish consistent national standards for coal ash that are implemented by the states; ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency does not attempt to intervene in regulation of oil and gas industry exploration through hydraulic fracturing which states have been successfully regulating on their own for many years; and continue oversight of the Department of Homeland Security’s chemical facilities antiterrorism program. As a graduate of West Point and Army veteran, Shimkus continues his involvement with the military and foreign affairs through his service on the United States Military Academy’s Board of Visitors and as a delegate to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In addition, Shimkus is the Republican House co-chair of the Next Gen 911 Caucus, which deals with first responders and technology. Shimkus has his bachelor’s degree in general engineering from the USMA, a teaching certificate from Concordia University Irvine, and his MBA from Southern Illinois University Edwardsville. Shimkus, his wife Karen, and three sons live in Collinsville. They attend Holy Cross Lutheran Church. ###
01.01.2013	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted late New Year’s Day to extend most of the tax rates that he first voted for under President George W. Bush. The package cut tax rates that went up January 1, 2013, and extended the farm bill. “This package will make the Bush tax cuts permanent for those under the income levels set in the agreement. Maintaining the current tax rates is important for both families and the economy,” Shimkus said. “A debate is still to come regarding more spending cuts, particularly since this agreement does not raise the debt ceiling as the President had initially wanted,” Shimkus stated. “I still believe we can have entitlement reform in the months to come.” The tax items in the package include: + permanent extension of current tax rates for those up to $400,000 income for singles or $450,000 income for couples; + permanent capital gain and dividend tax rates at 15 percent up to the same income levels and 20 percent above $400,000 and $450,000; + permanent estate tax exemption of $5 million indexed for inflation; + permanent indexing of the Alternative Minimum Tax for inflation (ending an annual fix to avoid millions of taxpayers from paying the AMT); + retains the $1,000 child tax credit; and + retains marriage penalty relief. “The typical family of four was set to see a tax hike of $2,200,” Shimkus noted. “Maintaining the current tax rates for nearly every American is vital to our economy. Both families and businesses will benefit from this agreement. “An additional benefit is that the farm bill is extended, which stops an immediate increase in milk prices and provides some certainty for our farmers in the upcoming planting season.” The package passed the Senate 89-8 very early New Years Day and the House late New Years Day. ###
10.29.2012	Highland, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) met with the owners of Korte & Luitjohan Contractors, Inc. in Highland this afternoon. The Congressman offered his support of their efforts challenging a federal government mandate authorized by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (also known as the health care reform law or Obamacare) that will require them to violate their religious beliefs or pay significant annual penalties. “While I know of the need for changes in our health care delivery system, I voted against Obamacare for many reasons,” Shimkus said. “One of those was that the federal government would have a strong hand in our health care decisions. “That has reared its head in a federal government mandate forcing businesses and religious institutions to violate their conscience, for example, by having to pay for abortion-inducing drugs. I applaud Korte & Luitjohan for filing a lawsuit and wish them the best as this process moves forward.” Korte & Luitjohan provides a group health insurance plan for its employees. The owners are fighting against having to provide mandated coverage that violates their Catholic faith. Their lawsuit was filed in East St. Louis District federal court. The American Center for Law and Justice is representing the local contractor. Their argument is the law violates the First Amendment, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, and the Administrative Procedure Act. ###
09.14.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) recognized Madison County, Illinois, on the occasion of its bicentennial by entering a statement into the permanent record of the United States House of Representatives. While he is unable to attend Saturday’s celebration, he wishes everyone attending to enjoy the statue re-dedication and the parade in Edwardsville. The statement reads: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the 200th birthday of my home county, Madison County, Illinois. Situated in southwestern Illinois, Madison County is one of the fastest growing and most diverse counties in Illinois. Whether it is the suburban hustle and bustle of Collinsville and Godfrey, the rural small-town atmosphere of Grantfork and Alhambra, the industrial might of Granite City and Wood River, the farming communities around St. Jacob and Worden, the university neighborhoods of Edwardsville, the historic charm of Alton and Highland, or the new and expanding developments in Maryville and Bethalto, Madison County has something for everyone. “Madison County is proud of its history, and optimistic about its future. Our county has produced towering figures of history, literally and figuratively: being home to Robert Wadlow, the world's tallest man, as well as the great Senator Paul Simon, jazz legend Miles Davis, and the abolitionist publisher Elijah Lovejoy. Our county was founded by Swiss, Italian, Hungarian, and Lithuanian immigrants. They farmed, mined, and worked in mills. Governor Ninian Edwards--for whom Edwardsville is named--chose President James Madison as our county's namesake. “On behalf of the more than a quarter-million proud residents of Madison County, I invite you to visit and see the National Great Rivers Museum in Alton, our many historic Route 66 sites, the Piasa Bird outside Alton, and the Lewis and Clark Historic Site. The fine, hard-working men and women of all walks of life who make our communities and our county an excellent place to live, work and raise a family welcome you. “I congratulate County Board President Alan Dunstan, and my many other friends and neighbors in Madison County on celebrating the bicentennial. May our home county continue to grow and prosper for another 200 years and beyond.” This Congressional Record entry can be accessed online at https://thomas.loc.gov/r112/r112.html; September 12, 2012; Extension of Remarks; item number 34 (HTML) or page E1493 (PDF). ###
09.12.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement with regard to the attacks on the American embassy in Cairo and the attack in Benghazi that killed Ambassador Christopher Stevens: “These attacks should be condemned as unjustified and intolerable in true democracies. Attacks on American citizens and our interests abroad demonstrate both the lack of leadership and strength we now show in the Middle East and lack of cooperation from the governments of Egypt and Libya. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the family, friends, and coworkers of Ambassador Stevens and the three Americans killed in Libya. They represented the freedom of America in a very turbulent region of the world.” ###
08.06.2012	Metropolis, Galatia, and Norris City, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) visited three Southern Illinois farms (Monday) in order to see drought damage to crops firsthand and to hear from local farmers how severely the drought is affecting both grain and livestock farmers. “I visited a farm in Clinton County two weeks ago, and I was surprised at the extent of the damage,” Shimkus said. “I am sure that today will show a similar situation, if not worse. I also know that we will talk about cattle as well.” The House passed a drought disaster bill last week, particularly for livestock farmers, as those insurance programs – unlike grain – were not currently active. The bill would continue the Livestock Indemnity Program for 2012 and 2013, the Livestock Forage Disaster Program, and other programs. On Monday Shimkus visited the farms of Jeff Weber near Metropolis, Randy Anderson near Galatia, and Kevin McArthy near Norris City. Local Farm Bureaus assisted in arranging the tour. All of Illinois, except for the Chicago area, have been declared disaster areas by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This makes several programs available to both grain and livestock farmers. Contact your local FSA office for details. In addition, Shimkus spoke on the floor of the U.S. House last week about the drought. You can see his comments on You Tube: https://www.youtube.com/repshimkus. ###
08.02.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for the Agriculture Disaster Assistance Act (HR 6233), which provides supplemental funding for agricultural disaster aid. “The 2008 farm bill had livestock programs expire in 2011, thus those farmers are not in any insurance or other protection program at this time,” Shimkus explained. “This bill continues the Livestock Indemnity Program for 2012 and 2013, the Livestock Forage Disaster Program, and several other programs.” All of these programs contain $100,000 per person or legal entity limits and also include income limitations. The program extensions are being funded through a reduction in Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) in fiscal year 2013 and by limiting acreage in the Conservation Stewardship Program. “I recently visited a farm in Clinton County and will again visit farms in deep Southern Illinois on Monday to see firsthand how this drought is affecting grain farmers and livestock producers,” Shimkus noted. ###
08.01.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to keep tax rates at their current level for one year with his vote for the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act (H.R. 8). The bill passed the House 256-171. “To raise taxes on anyone in our current economic state could be disastrous,” Shimkus stated. “Why we would want to risk higher unemployment, lower job growth, and more uncertainty for business owners?” This legislation would keep: · Existing tax rates, preventing an increase on January 1; · Maintain the $1,000 child tax credit; · Continue marriage penalty relief; · Extend death tax rate at 35 percent with a $5 million exemption; · Keep the top rate of 15 percent on dividends and capital gains; · And other tax related provisions for 2013. A report from the Ernst & Young accounting firm states that if current tax rates are not allowed to go up January 1, the economy will be hurt and over 700,000 jobs could be lost. They also say wages will fall by 1.8 percent. “A family of four earning $50,000 will see a $2,200 tax increase next year if we don’t take action now,” Shimkus said. “There is a clear choice between stopping the tax hike and trying to help the economy or allowing taxes to go up and hurting the economy.” Americans for Tax Reform and the National Taxpayer Union are just two of the organizations supporting this bill. ###
07.27.2012	Breese, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) visited the Luke Timmermann farm outside of Breese this morning to see firsthand and hear from local farmers how severely the drought is affecting agriculture. “I have driven by fields and even stopped to look closer a couple times, but the damage is much more severe than I thought,” Shimkus said. “It appears that corn has stopped growing, and beans are severely damaged. And some of the ears of corn are just shriveled up within the husks. “Since Luke is also a dairy farmer, he and others were able to fill me in on how the drought is also harming their herds. He said that milk production is down 20 percent and getting worse. “There is talk that we will be voting on a one year extension of the Farm Bill, which isn’t the best scenario, but it will include drought aid for livestock and fruits and vegetables farmers who are not covered by insurance as well as certainty for farmer who depend on crop insurance,” Shimkus added. Shimkus plans additional stops in August to view drought damage at farms. ### PHOTO ATTACHED: Shimkus, left, and Timmermann stand in what’s left of a corn field.
07.25.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for House passage of the Federal Reserve Transparency Act (HR 459) on Wednesday. The legislation would require an audit of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve banks by the Comptroller General. “As a cosponsor of this bill, I understand the need for an audit of our financial system, as the Federal Reserve has great powers and has made many decisions that have affect our economy,” Shimkus stated. “Current law prohibits such an audit of our monetary policy, thus the need for legislative action.” In addition to an audit of monetary policy decisions, the bill calls for an audit of the review of loan files of homeowners in foreclosure and how the Federal Reserve handled that crisis. Congressman Ron Paul (R, Texas) introduced the legislation. The bill had bipartisan support and passed 327-98. It now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
07.23.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) joined 78 colleagues in urging bipartisan House leadership to bring the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act, which passed the House Agriculture Committee, to a vote before the full House of Representatives. Congressman Bobby Schilling of Illinois was among those leading the effort. The letter states, in part: “The House Agriculture Committee has done its work and we now ask that you make time on the floor of the House to consider this legislation, so that it can be debated, conference, and ultimately passed into law, before the current bill expires. …Agriculture supports nearly 16 million jobs nationwide and over 45 million people are helped each year by the nutrition programs in the farm bill. The letter urges action, “The message from our constituents and rural America is clear: we need a farm bill now. We ask that you bring a farm bill up before the August District Work Period so that the House will have the opportunity to work its will. We ask that you make this legislation a priority of the House as it is critically important to rural and urban Americans alike.” The letter was sent to Speaker John Boehner, Majority Leader Eric Cantor, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer. Many farm bill policies expire September 30, thus the urgency in bringing this bill to the floor. Shimkus noted, “Now is the time to pass a full farm bill and move on to other issues. We have to do our job in Washington, which includes bringing bills to the floor and allowing the amendment process to see where the House stands. We have done it on appropriations bills; we can do it with the farm bill.” ###
07.11.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has again voted to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and additional health care related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. This is the second full repeal of Obamacare approved by the House. In addition, 30 other votes have attempted to partially repeal or defund the program. “Obamacare, as a whole, is bad for the country. It raises taxes 21 times costing over $675 billion over ten years. And it’s actually increased the cost of health insurance, not lowered the cost,” Shimkus said. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that private health insurance costs will increase $2,100 per year in 2016 due to Obamacare compared to if it had not been implemented. “It takes away an individual’s choice by mandating coverage onto everyone. The law also has increased the federal government’s role in funding abortion and plans that cover abortion,” he noted. “Another problem I have with Obamacare is the unelected Independent Payment Advisory Board that will determine whether Medicare should pay for certain treatments. This will remove decision making away from the doctor-patient relationship into a bureaucracy.” Shimkus also cited published reports that indicate Obamacare will result in job cuts and noted, “Several corporate officials testified before Congress that this law has already forced them to not expand their business, to consider moving employees into part-time status in order to avoid having them deemed full-time, and to basically spend their entire company’s profits on health insurance. That is not good for our economy, not good for employment, not good for our country. “I have voted against government-run health care consistently. I have also voted for helping to incentivize the uninsured through a market-based approach. If we are given the chance to do that again, I do support replacing Obamacare with policies that will help reduce the number of uninsured without harming the economy.” ###
07.10.2012	Washington, DC - In the wake of the U.S. Supreme Court decision on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is cosponsoring the Religious Freedom Tax Repeal Act. “The Supreme Court’s decision leaves intact a grave assault to religious freedom – the Obama Administration mandate that requires employers to provide drugs and services in their employee health care plans regardless of religious objections,” Shimkus said. “Employers that fail to comply face staggering financial penalties. That is why I believe the Religious Freedom Tax Repeal Act is necessary.” According to a February 2012 Congressional Research Report, insurers and employers that do not comply with the mandate could face a federal tax of $100 per day per employee, or $36,500 a year per employee. Elementary schools with 50 employees could face fines of more than $1.75 million per year. Religious employers with hundreds of employees could be fined tens of millions of dollars annually. “I can think of no instance in history where there has been an edict forcing individuals to either violate their deeply held religious beliefs or be required to pay a tax,” Shimkus added. “Such a tax could force many charities and religious institutions out of business or, at the very least, to divert funds intended to help the neediest members of our society.” The Religious Freedom Tax Repeal Act prohibits the federal government from enforcing the penalties of mandate non-compliance based on religious and moral convictions; it does not eliminate any of the current preventive services included in the law. ###
06.28.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court issued its ruling in Florida v. United States Department of Health and Human Services, the Obamacare decision that upheld the majority of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: “I am disappointed that the Supreme Court upheld Obamacare. This law takes away our rights as individuals to make choices about our finances and personal freedoms, like whether or not to buy insurance. I agree with the dissenters that the law is unconstitutional. “Obamacare did not lower health insurance premiums. It in fact raises premiums and raises taxes. The President himself said this was not a tax. During debate in my committee and on the floor of the House, supporters continue to deny this is a tax, yet the Administration’s defense of the bill and the Court’s decision are on the basis that this is indeed a tax. “The House will once again vote to repeal Obamacare, but the Senate will probably not even vote on such a measure. If repeal were successful, then we could start fresh with health care reforms that will lower the cost of health insurance, increase the number of insured, and put patients back in charge. “Reforms that I could support would include associated health plans, which allow membership organizations to pool their members; allowing individuals to deduct the cost of insurance like a business can; allowing insurance to be sold across state lines; creating state and regional high risk pools; and passing medical liability reform.” Shimkus is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. ###
06.21.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House passage of the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act (HR 4480), which was an accumulation of seven bills previously approved by either the House Energy and Commerce Committee on which Shimkus serves or the House Natural Resources Committee. “We are constantly asked what you doing to create jobs? Well this is another step toward creating jobs by utilizing our country’s natural resources and energy supplies,” Shimkus commented. “I’m certain the Senate will sit on their hands and not even discuss any of these issues that would help lower energy costs, which in turn, both lower the costs of goods produced in the U.S. and lower the costs of fuel and electricity for American consumers.” Some the bills incorporated into this bill were: + Strategic Energy Production Act – increase the amount of federal acreage, including the Outer Continental Shelf, leased for oil and gas exploration, development, and production. + Gasoline Regulations Act – creates a Transportation Fuels Regulatory Committee to analyze the impacts of EPA rules on gasoline, diesel fuel, and natural gas prices and prohibits certain rules from going into effect until after this committee issues its final report. + Streamlining Permitting of American Energy Act – establishes a timeline for the Secretary of the Interior to issue drilling permits within 30 days. + Additional bills would force leasing in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska; direct the Secretary of the Interior to develop a four year strategy for energy; direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct lease sales through the Internet; and conduct lease sales on at least 25 percent of the acreage nominated under the Mineral Leasing Act. “Job creators are concerned about the policies of this Administration and the many rules and regulations that keep being poured out by various agencies,” Shimkus added. “The energy sector is what has put North Dakota last in unemployment; that should serve as a sign for the rest of the nation.” The bill passed June 21 with bipartisan support, 248-163. ###
06.06.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy, introduced an amendment that would increase funding for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission by $10 million. The amendment was to the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill (HR 5325) and would take the $10 million out of the Department of Energy Departmental Administration account for salaries and expenses. “I am pleased that my amendment passed 326-81 with overwhelming bipartisan support. This continues to show House support for completion of the Yucca Mountain review process within NRC,” Shimkus said. “After having spent 30 years and $15 billion, the NRC refuses to follow the law and complete the review process. This amendment removes the excuse that they do not have the funds to perform their task.” Through unilateral action, the NRC stopped licensing activities with regard to the Yucca Mountain high-level nuclear waste storage facility. A case is also pending before the federal appeals court regarding the NRC’s actions. ###
05.10.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House passage of a bill that would replace $78 billion of the sequestration’s automatic cuts set to occur January 2, 2013, with other mandatory spending cuts in fiscal year 2013. The sequestration cuts are part of last year’s Budget Control Act measures intended to reduce the deficit. “The Budget Control Act calls for equal cuts to defense and other programs, since the super-committee was unable to reach an agreement. Secretary of Defense Panetta has called these cuts ‘devastating’ to the military, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has called them a ‘very high risk’ to national security,” Shimkus stated. “The House has taken action today to reduce the effect on our defense and security forces by finding ways to save money elsewhere.” Some of the new savings comes from eliminating the Dodd-Frank “too big to fail” fund; repealing various Obamacare provisions; requiring proof of eligibility for SNAP; requiring proof (Social Security Number) to received the refundable child tax credit; and increasing pension contributions by federal employees among other items. These cuts will offset some of those prescribed under sequestration. “Instead of facing across-the-board cuts, these are specific areas that won’t harm our military and are targeted,” Shimkus noted. The bill passed the House and awaits action by the Senate. ###
05.09.2012	Washington, DC - The safety of residents of the Village of Waggoner during severe weather conditions will be enhanced soon, thanks to a grant from United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has announced. The village has been approved for an $8,400 grant by Rural Development’s Community Facility Grant program. The funding will be used to purchase and install a new early warning system. “Waggoner’s existing system, ironically, has been hit by lightning twice in the past two years and is no longer functioning properly,” Shimkus said. “I would like to thank Rural Development for its help to replace that system and increase the safety of those living in the village.” In addition to the grant, the village will contribute $6,900 to cover the $15,300 total cost of the project. ###
04.27.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to keep Stafford student loan rates for undergraduates at the current 3.4 percent. The Interest Rate Reduction Act (HR 4628) passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday, April 27. “The unemployment rate for recent college graduates is unbearably high, and to have a doubling of student loan interest rates at this time doesn’t make sense,” Shimkus said. With 65 percent of 2010 bachelor’s degree graduates having student loans to pay off, keeping interest rates low is important. Keeping the interest rate low; however, comes at a $5.9 billion cost. “The House uses unobligated funds in Obamacare to pay for this interest rate reduction,” Shimkus explained. The Senate is scheduled to take up its version of a student loan bill the week of May 7. ###
04.27.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to keep Stafford student loan rates for undergraduates at the current 3.4 percent. The Interest Rate Reduction Act (HR 4628) passed the U.S. House of Representatives on Friday, April 27. “The unemployment rate for recent college graduates is unbearably high, and to have a doubling of student loan interest rates at this time doesn’t make sense,” Shimkus said. With 65 percent of 2010 bachelor’s degree graduates having student loans to pay off, keeping interest rates low is important. Keeping the interest rate low; however, comes at a $5.9 billion cost. “The House uses unobligated funds in Obamacare to pay for this interest rate reduction,” Shimkus explained. The Senate is scheduled to take up its version of a student loan bill the week of May 7. ###
04.06.2012	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is continuing a tradition of his office by having his staff conduct Traveling Help Desk events in towns across the 19th District. “Traveling Help Desk allows you to meet face to face with my staff in your hometown instead of over the telephone or having to drive, for example, to my office in Olney,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding the federal government.” One staff member will be in Lawrence County and Richland County on Monday, April 16, from 10:30 a.m. till noon at the Bridgeport City Hall, 235 West Washington Street; and then from 1:00 till 2:30 p.m. at the Parkersburg Town Hall, 103 East Parker Street. Those unable to attend Traveling Help Desk can contact Congressman Shimkus at 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234, phone 618-344-3065. More information on services offered by the Congressman’s office is available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. He also maintains a Twitter account (@RepShimkus) and a Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/repshimkus) that are updated daily. No appointment is necessary, but constituents requiring special accommodations should call 618-344-3065 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled Traveling Help Desk. ###
03.30.2012	Washington, DC - Congressmen John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), Mike Ross (D, Arkansas-4), John Sullivan (R, Oklahoma-1), and Collin Peterson (D, Minnesota-7) have introduced the Domestic Fuels Act of 2012 (HR 4345). The legislation will help bring additional fuels to the consumer market. Provisions in the legislation will provide liability protection for the storage of fuels, use of equipment, and sales of the fuels for the appropriate use of the fuels. Currently, there are not consistent standards nor regulatory protections for the sale of all fuels. “I want to thank the many staff members, supporting organizations, and legislators for their diligence in getting to this compromise,” Shimkus said. “This is a needed bill to allow additional fuels to reach the marketplace and compete with existing products.” “I’m proud to help introduce the bipartisan Domestic Fuels Protection Act of 2012 in the House of Representatives,” said Ross. “Congress must do everything it can to ensure that consumers are able to make informed decisions about the fuel they purchase. The Domestic Fuels Protection Act is bipartisan, commonsense legislation that provides consistent standards, creates legal certainty, and increases the availability of renewable, domestic fuel.” “This is an important step in providing all parties in the fuel supply chain with much needed legal certainty for acting in compliance with the law,” Sullivan noted. “Whether we like it or not, the renewable fuels mandate requires companies to introduce new types of fuel into the general fuel supply ­– it’s simply unfair to hold retailers and producers liable for problems that arise from selling these fuels and acting in accordance with the law of the land.” “A strong renewable fuels industry is essential to advancing the next generation of fuels from the farm, providing a competitive market for farmers and strengthening the rural economy,” Peterson added. “This bill will increase availability, ensuring that Americans across the country have the opportunity to fuel their vehicles with domestic, renewable fuel.” This legislation is a companion bill to the bipartisan Domestic Fuels Act introduced in the Senate yesterday by Senators Hoeven, Blunt, Klobuchar, and Crapo. Organizations supporting the bill include American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, American Petroleum Institute, Growth Energy, National Association of Convenience Stores, NATSO, OPEI, Petroleum Marketers Association of American, Renewable Fuels Association, and SIGMA. ### For Shimkus: Steve Tomaszewski, 618-344-3065 For Ross: Dustin Smith, 870-536-3376 For Sullivan: Vaughn Jennings, 202-225-2211 For Peterson: Liz Friedlander, 202-225-1564
03.22.2012	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] – U.S. Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Congressmen John Shimkus (R-IL) and Jerry Costello (D-IL) today welcomed the announcement of a U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Disaster Declaration for Saline County, which will allow residents and businesses in the region severely impacted by severe storms and tornadoes three weeks ago to receive SBA grants. These grants provide assistance to homeowners, renters, businesses to repair or replace disaster damaged real estate, personal property,machinery, equipment, inventory and business assets. The designation also includes the counties that surround Saline including Gallatin and Williamson Counties. “We are pleased to hear that the Small Business Administration has issued a disaster declaration for Saline County and the surrounding communities that were impacted by the devastating storms and tornadoes just three weeks ago,” the members said. “This declaration will give residents and business owners critical access to low interest loans and other funding sources that will help them rebuild. We are committed to ensuring that these communities are able to recover fully, and will continue to working with the State of Illinois to identifying other opportunities for federal assistance.” Earlier today, Durbin, Kirk, Shimkus, and Costello were joined by the entire Illinois Congressional Delegation sending a letter supporting the State of Illinois’ request to President Obama asking him to issue a SBA Disaster Declaration for Saline County. Members signing on to the letter of support include Representatives Judy Biggert (R-IL), Danny Davis (D-IL), Robert Dold (R-IL), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Jesse Jackson, Jr. (D-IL), Tim Johnson (R-IL), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Don Manzullo (R-IL), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Bobby Schilling (R-IL) Aaron Schock (R-IL), and Joe Walsh (R-IL). [Text of the letter below] March 22, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D. C. Dear Mr. President: We write to support Illinois Governor Pat Quinn’s request for a U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Disaster Declaration for Saline County, Illinois, as a result of severe storms and tornadoes occurring on February 29, 2012, through March 2, 2012. On February 29, severe storms and tornadoes tore through the southern part of our state. High winds caused damage to homes in Randolph and Union counties. Around 5 o’clock in the morning, an EF4 tornado touched down in the City of Harrisburg in Saline County and an EF3 tornado touched down in the Village of Ridgway in Gallatin County. Sadly, seven people in Harrisburg lost their lives as a result of the tornado. Severe damage occurred along the entire tornado path. Preliminary damage assessments indicate that damage was done to homes, businesses, buildings, trees, utility poles, electrical service, and transportation routes in these counties. The economic impact on the community as a result of businesses being destroyed is severe and the demand for state and local government resources for emergency response, debris removal, and the repair of public property is extraordinary. Taking care of the needs of the people is of utmost importance. The Governor seeks timely federal assistance from the SBA. Governor Quinn has determined that this incident is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the state and local governments. Supplementary federal assistance is necessary. We respectfully request that you issue an SBA Disaster Declaration for Saline County and we request that the SBA disaster loans be offered to eligible individuals and businesses in the counties that are contiguous to Saline County. We thank you in advance for your timely consideration of this important request and stand ready to assist in any way appropriate. -30-
03.22.2012	Washington, DC - Edwardsville firefighters will be donning new breathing equipment, thanks to federal funding from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has announced. Edwardsville Fire Chief Rick Welle said the $117,000 grant will allow the fire department to replace its self-contained breathing apparatus to remain in compliance with current regulations. “I commend the department for the hard work put forth to obtain this competitive grant,” said Shimkus, who added that his office offers assistance to any department wanting to apply for a Fire Grant, or for any other federal grant program. Edwardsville’s grant was awarded under the Operations and Safety category of the AFG program, which is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration, both part of the Department of Homeland Security. “Operations and Safety funding can be used for training, equipment – including personal protective equipment – wellness and fitness, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities,” Shimkus noted. Fire departments and non hospital-affiliated emergency medical services are eligible for AFG grants. Those serving less than 20,000 residents are required to provide a five-percent non-federal match for the one-year Operations and Safety grants. Departments serving between 20,000 and 50,000 residents must provide a 10-percent match and larger departments a 20-percent match. ###
03.22.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to repeal the portion of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) called the Independent Payment Advisory Board. The legislation (HR 5) also incorporated language for medical malpractice reform. “This board created in Obamacare would have allowed appointed bureaucrats to make major decisions about the healthcare of seniors in Medicare,” Shimkus explained. “I want to restore the patient-doctor relationship. I want to repeal the entire Obamacare law and replace it with a market-oriented healthcare policy that gives people more freedom and decision making over their healthcare.” Shimkus was a cosponsor of both bills that were incorporated into HR 5. The medical malpractice reforms would provide for 100 percent payment of all economic losses, including medical costs, lost wages, future lost wages, rehabilitation expenses, and other out-of-pocket expenses related to an injury. However, the noneconomic damages would be capped at $250,000. “We have seen in Illinois how out-of-control medical malpractice insurance costs force doctors to leave. This would bring reforms to the whole country, saving $45 billion at just the federal level over the next ten years.” The bill passed the House and now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
03.21.2012	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is joining with a number of St. Louis area organizations and businesses in announcing a U.S. Chamber of Commerce Hiring Our Heroes job fair to be held April 19. “We often refer to our current and past military men and women as heroes,” Shimkus said. “This will be an opportunity to treat them that way.” Veterans, anyone on active military duty, Guard and Reserve members, and spouses are invited to the free event, which will be from 9 a.m. till noon Thursday, April 19, at Machinists’ Hall, 12365 St. Charles Rock Road, Bridgeton, Missouri. “In addition to job searching, assistance in areas such as resume development, interviewing skills and dressing for success will be offered,” Shimkus added. Job seekers must register online at HoH.GreatJob.net to ensure admission. Walk-ins are welcome, but space is not guaranteed. Numerous employers have already committed to attend, but there is still time for others – with open positions only – to also register for free at HoH.GreatJob.net. Anyone needing assistance registering should email hiringourheroes@uschamber.com. More information about this one-of-a-kind program is available at www.uschamber.com/hiringourheroes. ###
03.16.2012	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) will be available to meet with local constituents on Saturday, March 31, from 10:30 a.m. till 12 noon at the Nashville Community Center, 455 South Washington Street. "This is an opportunity for local residents to meet with me one-on-one in order to express their opinion on issues or to seek help if they have a problem with a federal government agency," Shimkus explained. “It is my job to be an advocate for my constituents and to meet with them to learn their concerns.” To schedule an appointment with Shimkus in Nashville on Saturday, March 31, please call (618)344-3065. Appointments are not required, but those with an appointment are assured time to meet with the Congressman. Those unable to attend in person may contact Shimkus by mail at 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234. The Congressman also has an office in Centralia at 221 East Broadway, that is open on Wednesdays from 10:00 a.m. till 4:00 p.m. Shimkus also maintains a website at https://shimkus.house.gov that contains a variety of useful information regarding services his office offers. Constituents may sign up for a weekly e-mail newsletter on the website and can send messages to the Congressman's office. Those requiring special accommodations should call (618)344-3065 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled office hours so that necessary arrangements may be made. ###
03.14.2012	Agency is working with Illinois on appeal as Congressional Delegation pushes for quick decision [WASHINGTON, D.C.] – After a meeting to discuss the recent denial of federal assistance to five counties in Southern Illinois, members of the Illinois Congressional Delegation today said that they pressed the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator, Craig Fugate, on the importance of federal disaster aid to the residents and businesses impacted by severe storms and tornadoes earlier this month. Delegation members also pressed FEMA for a quick decision on the State of Illinois’ appeal which will likely be filed in a few days. The meeting was held today in U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL)’s Washington office with representatives from U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL)’s office and representatives from the office’s of U.S. Congressmen John Shimkus (R-IL), Jerry Costello (D-IL) and Tim Johnson (R-IL). The Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, Jonathon Monken, also joined the meeting by phone. “The damage in Harrisburg, Ridgway and the surrounding communities was some of the worst I have ever seen. I couldn’t believe that the federal government initially denied Illinois’ request for aid, but I am encouraged by today’s meeting with Administrator Fugate,” said Durbin. “During the appeals process, FEMA will be looking much more closely at the impact these storms had and additional data that wasn’t included in the original request. I am confident that when the process is complete, residents and businesses in Southern Illinois will have the assistance they need to recover and rebuild.” “In today's meeting, Administrator Fugate agreed to evaluate any new data the state of Illinois provides to further demonstrate the impact of the storms in Harrisburg, Ridgway and the surrounding areas. We are hopeful that the ongoing evaluations will make the case for what we all know to be true – that the storms caused massive damage that warrants federal assistance,” said a Kirk Spokesperson. “I was quite surprised when I got the call Saturday night about FEMA’s denial, after having seen the damage myself. I hope that new information will make an appeal successful, and I will fully support such an effort by the Governor,” said Shimkus. “We are all in agreement on the path forward regarding re-evaluating the damage and making sure we have a full accounting of the costs incurred,” said Costello. “Uninsured losses and the depth of structural damage to buildings are key factors in this process and are being closely monitored. We appreciate Administrator Fugate’s attention to the events in Southern Illinois and look forward to continuing working with FEMA as the appeal is filed.” “I am relieved to know this decision by FEMA is being reevaluated,” said Johnson. “This agency exists for precisely this purpose and if this disaster in Southern Illinois doesn’t qualify, I cannot imagine what would.” Last week, Durbin, Kirk, Shimkus, Costello and Johnson were joined by the entire Illinois Congressional Delegation sending a letter to President Obama asking him to issue a major disaster declaration for the State of Illinois and to provide relief for Gallatin, Randolph, Saline, Union, and Williamson Counties due to the storms and tornadoes that ravaged the area leaving local governments, charitable organizations, voluntary agencies and evacuees taking on the initial costs of the disasters. A Presidential disaster declaration would allow cities and counties to apply for federal reimbursements to help pay for storm damage repairs. -30- Contact: Christina Mulka (Durbin) 202.228.5643 Nicole Barrett (Kirk)202.224.2854 Steve Tomaszewski (Shimkus)618.344.3065 David Gillies (Costello) 202.225.5661 Phil Bloomer (Johnson) 217.403.4690
03.09.2012	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is continuing a tradition of his office by having his staff conduct Traveling Help Desk events in towns across the 19th District. “Traveling Help Desk allows you to meet face to face with my staff in your hometown instead of over the telephone or having to drive, for example, to my office in Olney,” Shimkus explained. “The staff person will be able to handle any issue you may have regarding the federal government.” One staff member will be in Clay County and Wayne County on Thursday, March 22, from 10:30 a.m. till noon at the Clay City Village Hall, 318 South Walnut; and then from 1:30 till 3:00 p.m. at the Wayne City Community Building, 103 Mill Street. Those unable to attend Traveling Help Desk can contact Congressman Shimkus at 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234, phone 618-344-3065. He also has an office at 120 South Fair Street, Olney, IL 62450, phone 618-392-7737, which is open on Thursdays. More information on services offered by the Congressman’s office is available on his website: https://shimkus.house.gov. No appointment is necessary, but constituents requiring special accommodations should call 618-344-3065 at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled Traveling Help Desk. ###
03.08.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) joined his colleagues in voting for legislation designed to put Americans back to work, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives 390-23 on Thursday. “The JOBS Act provides incentives for small businesses and entrepreneurs to invest, hire and expand,” Shimkus said. “The ideas in this legislation have been supported by Republicans and Democrats, the President’s Jobs Council, and the business community.” The act joins together six bills that passed through the House Financial Services Committee with overwhelming bipartisan support. The legislation establishes a new category of securities issuers, Emerging Growth Companies, which will be exempt from certain Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulatory requirements. It also raises the offering threshold for companies exempted from registration with the SEC from $5 million, set in the early 1990s, to $50 million. Such moves would help small companies gain access to capital markets without the costs and delays associated with the full-scale securities registration process. The legislation now moves to the Senate, and Shimkus is calling on that side of the Capitol to act quickly. “The Senate has become the place where good ideas go to die,” the Congressman said. “Twenty-seven pieces of job-creating legislation have passed the House and are awaiting Senate action, even before the JOBS Act. With so many American s out of work, the time to act is long overdue.” ###
02.29.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) will visit the tornado damaged areas of Southern Illinois, including Ridgway and Harrisburg, on Thursday. The Congressman has an office in Harrisburg’s City Hall, which was not damaged and which is open for business.Shimkus issued the following statement:“I was saddened to learn of the loss of lives and such violent damage in Harrisburg and other areas of Southern Illinois. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who lost loved ones and those who were hurt or lost their homes or businesses.“I will be leaving Washington to visit some of the sites that sustained damage and to meet with Mayor Gregg and other local officials, who I or my staff have already spoken with today.” ###
02.27.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has added a modern touch as he is seeking entries for the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. The annual contest for high school students has been held nationwide in each Congressional district since 1982, but Shimkus last year instituted voting via the online social network Facebook, helping increase interest in the event. “This is a unique competition, as the entries are limited by geography and the winner gets national exposure,” Shimkus explained. “I encourage all student artists to submit their work.” The contest is open to high school students who reside in the 19th District or in a school district that includes territory represented by Shimkus. The winning entry from Shimkus’ district will be displayed with others from around the country in the underground tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building and the U.S. Capitol. In addition, the winner will be flown courtesy of Southwest Airlines to Washington for a special ceremony. The deadline to submit entries is Wednesday, April 25. Information has been sent to high schools and is also available from any of Shimkus’ offices. To have an information packet sent directly to you, call Matt at 217-492-5090, or access the forms online at shimkus.house.gov under Constituent Services. “The entries must be original artwork that meets the guidelines of the contest,” Shimkus said. “We have had collages, oil paintings, pencil drawings, photographs, and other types of art entered over the years.” ###
02.17.2012	Washington, DC - As House co-chairs of the Next Gen 9-1-1 Caucus, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois) and Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D, California) are pleased to announce the inclusion of the Next Generation 9-1-1 Advancement Act (HR 2629) in the Conference Report to extend the payroll tax holiday that passed both the House and Senate on Friday. The language will allow for matching grants to eligible entities that will enable the delivery of voice, text, photos, video, and other data to 9-1-1 call centers. Shimkus said, “This will help 9-1-1 agencies bring advanced equipment into their call centers. Rep. Eshoo and I have worked on 9-1-1 technology for some time; this brings us closer to allowing more information to get into the hands of emergency responders.” Eshoo, ranking member on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee: “For over a decade, Rep. Shimkus and I have been working to bring our 9-1-1 call centers into the 21st century. Today we did by giving them the tools to better protect citizens in every community across our country.” The grants are paid for by the sale of broadcast spectrum also outlined in the legislation. ###
02.16.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for legislation that would open more energy sources within the U.S. The Protecting Investment in Oil Shale the Next Generation of Environmental, Energy, and Resource Security (PIONEER) Act (HR 3408) passed the House Thursday night. “Oil and thus gas prices are on the rise again. Iran is making waves creating havoc. Yet, we don’t take the steps to make our own nation more energy secure,” Shimkus said. A Wall Street Journal article from February 15 outlined how rising oil prices are “…a threat to the U.S. economic recovery…;” “Higher gas prices force consumers to cut back on other spending;” and “Oil prices affect virtually every aspect of the U.S. economy.” Shimkus noted, “These are obvious statements, yet many in the Administration and in Congress refuse to allow us to access the oil and natural gas right here at home. They would rather us be dependent on our enemies for energy and for our economy to weaken further.” This legislation would lift the President’s ban on offshore drilling, open a small portion of ANWR to exploration, approve the Keystone XL pipeline between Canada and the U.S., and develop oil shale resources in the Rocky Mountains. “All of these will not only increase our energy independence, but they also create jobs, which we desperately need right now,” Shimkus added. ###
01.23.2012	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement regarding Senator Mark Kirk’s health following a stroke: “My prayers are with Mark during this very crucial time. As his doctor’s stated, every stroke is serious. I am hopeful that Mark will make a full recovery as quickly as possible.” ###
01.18.2012	Washington, DC - In the final vote as part of the Budget Control Act passed last year, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against President Obama’s sixth request to increase the nation’s debt ceiling. The national debt has risen over $5 trillion during the Obama Administration and will now total over $16 trillion by the end of the year. “While I had high hopes for the super-committee to come to some agreement on a long-term debt solution, that did not happen,” Shimkus noted. “Now we face another raise in our debt limit, which continues our practice of deficit spending. “The State of Illinois has proven that raising taxes does not ensure a balanced budget, as they continue to deal with fiscal problems. At the federal level, we must start to control our spending if we really want to see our annual deficits and total debt start to come down.” The vote today on H.J.Res. 98 was to disapprove of the President’s request for an increase in the debt limit. Thus, a yes vote was against the increase. The resolution passed 239-176-2. ###
01.05.2012	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is kicking off his “Valentines for Heroes” program, which has become a popular tradition for his constituents. The Congressman’s district offices will collect valentines for distribution to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands of valentines come into my offices every year since we began Valentines for Heroes,” he noted. “The people of central and southern Illinois are overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present.” This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices until February 6 and will then be distributed to local VA and military facilities before Valentine’s Day. A few basic rules to follow: Do not address valentines to a specific person. Do not include identifying information about yourself, but messages of support are appreciated along with your first name. Do not place valentines in sealed, individual envelopes. Do not submit blank valentines. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234 (Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.) 3130 Chatham Road, Suite C, Springfield, IL 62704 (Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.) City Hall Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 (Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4 p.m.) 221 East Broadway, Suite 102, Centralia, IL 62801 (Wednesday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m.) 120 South Fair, Olney, IL 62450 (Thursday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m.) ###
12.28.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) warns an Iranian naval blockade of the Strait of Hormuz could cut off one-third of the world’s oil transported by sea - dealing a major blow to US supply. “This threat underscores the need for President Obama to make a decision on the Keystone XL Pipeline that would add security and certainty to US oil supplies from our Canadian friends,” said Shimkus. “This pipeline is about energy security and jobs - two things we desperately need more of.” Shimkus has spoken repeatedly on the need to advance the Keystone XL pipeline on the House Floor and in the Energy and Commerce Committee. He recently visited the oil sands in Alberta that would be carried through the pipeline to US refineries. ###
12.16.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported the Fiscal Year 2012 Consolidated Appropriations Act (HR 2055) that passed the House on Friday. This bill funded nearly three-quarters of the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year that began on October 1. “For the second year in a row, federal appropriations have gone down and there are no earmarks,” Shimkus said. “We are still in deficit spending, but we are sticking to the path of cutting real dollars and eliminating unnecessary programs. “Several provisions included in this bill prohibit the ridiculous regulations proposed by the Administration or others in Congress, such as energy provisions for televisions, regulations on window blinds, and storm run-off from roads in a forest,” Shimkus noted. “Additional language prohibits a coal dust rule until an independent assessment is made and prohibits reporting of an ergonomics standard – both are issues that I have been involved with. “Congress also cut its own budget by 5.2 percent.” The Senate was expected to also pass the bill, and the President indicated he would sign it into law. ###
12.08.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported legislation that would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating farm dust. The bill, Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act (HR 1633), passed the House on Thursday with bipartisan support. “While EPA has said that it does not plan on regulating farm dust, I just don’t trust its leaders not to change their minds somewhere down the road,” Shimkus stated. “I believe we need to put it in law, so they can’t ever do it. A law would also prevent a court challenge where EPA is forced to regulate farm dust by a judge.” The bill would remove farm dust from federal “nuisance dust” regulations where it is already regulated under state or local law. “There are many gravel and dirt roads in my district. There are many farms in my district. It is ridiculous to think that dust can be regulated or stopped from happening,” Shimkus added. Organizations supporting HR 1633 include the American Farm Bureau Federation, National Federation of Independent Business, National Cattlemen’s Beef Association, National Pork Producers Council, National Association of Wheat Growers, Dairy Farmers of America, and American Motorcyclist Association. ###
12.08.2011	Washington, DC - A recent report on the “60 Minutes” television show brought to light questionable stock trades by Members of Congress. As a result, a bipartisan piece of legislation has been touted that would specifically prohibit any such practices. Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has become a cosponsor of the bill – Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act (HR 1148). “While the practice of buying and selling stock based on information gained by being a Member of Congress or staff person is already banned under House rules, this legislation will specifically outlaw trading based on nonpublic information and require additional oversight of those who use Congressional information for trading,” Shimkus said. The STOCK Act would: Prohibit Members of Congress, their staff, Executive Branch employees, and others from buying or selling securities, swaps, or commodity futures based on nonpublic information learned as part of their employment. Require all financial transactions above $1,000 to be reported by those already required to file annual financial disclosures. Amend House ethics rules to prohibit Members and staff from disclosing any nonpublic information to others for investment purposes. Require firms that specialize in “political intelligence” information from Congress to register like lobbying firms must do. “Personally, I do not have any investments in any individual stocks such as those my colleagues were accused of profiting from,” Shimkus noted. “I only have retirement and investment accounts that invest in mutual funds.” ###
12.07.2011	Washington, DC - “I have often stated that the economy would improve if the President were to simply stop all new regulations that his Administration has proposed,” Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) said. “He obviously has not done that, and thus the House has voted to take its own approach.” Shimkus voted on Wednesday for the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (HR 10), which would provide for a joint resolution of Congress to approve major rules issued by the Executive Branch before they would take effect. “Easing the regulatory burden on businesses is a straightforward approach to job creation. Easing the regulatory burden on business means they could have funds available for expansion and job growth,” Shimkus noted. “This is an apparent difference between this bill and tax increases proposed by the other party.” ###
11.18.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for the Balanced Budget Amendment (H.J. Res. 2) in the U.S. House on Friday. While a majority voted for the amendment, the necessary two-thirds majority was not reached. “Just this week, our total national debt topped the $15 trillion mark,” Shimkus stated. “In addition, we are borrowing 42 cents of every dollar we spend at the federal level. That is unsound, unsustainable, and just unwise. “We are abdicating our duty as elected officials. Both Republican and Democrat majorities in the House and in the White House have contributed to this situation. But we must stop it now!” This Balanced Budget Amendment would have required Congress to not spend more than taken-in in revenue unless a supermajority of three-fifths voted to do so; required a three-fifths vote to raise the debt ceiling; required the President to submit a balanced budget to Congress; and required a roll call vote on raising taxes. There would have been a five year time frame to implement the amendment had it been added to the Constitution. “The last time Congress voted on a similar amendment was in 1995, so this was my first opportunity to support such an important amendment,” Shimkus added. “We must take control of our spending, and while this amendment is drastic, our situation requires drastic action.” ###
11.08.2011	Washington, DC - The entire Republican Congressional delegation from Illinois has asked Governor Pat Quinn what the cost of Medicaid expansion in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will be to the state. This is the third time Members of Congress have asked for this information, and the letters have all gone unanswered. In November 2009 a letter was sent to Director Barry Maram of the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services. In March 2011 a letter was sent to the Governor. The concern is that outside organizations have estimated the cost in the billions per year. And with the state hardly able to cover current bills, where will this money come from? The letter (attached) notes that “these increased costs will further delay payments to providers who routinely experience unacceptably long payment delays.” Those delays could extend to over five months. In addition, “with nearly 40% of U.S. physicians not accepting Medicaid at all, we are extremely concerned about what these additional financial burdens on our fiscally unsound state budget will mean for patient access and quality of care.” In summary, “it is imperative that your office provide us with a projected estimate of the effect of PPACA’s obligations will have on the State of Illinois. The people of Illinois must hear from the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services or the Governor’s Office of Management and Budget as to the true costs Medicaid’s expansion will have on the state’s bottom line. Conversely, if the state has failed to do such an analysis, they deserve to know why the state has ignored what may have devastating impacts on our already struggling state budget.” ###
10.14.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy, managed House passage of the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act of 2011 (HR 2273). This legislation worked its way through Shimkus’ subcommittee, then the full Energy and Commerce Committee, before today’s passage on the House floor. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has proposed designating coal ash as a hazardous waste, which would increase costs for utility customers and other industries that currently utilize coal ash an input in making concrete products and construction materials. The legislation was originally introduced by Congressmen David McKinley (R, West Virginia) and Nick Rahall (D, West Virginia). Shimkus’ amendment was the only Republican amendment allowed to the floor by the Rules Committee. “This legislation is vital to the continued viability of coal-fired electricity generation. The Administration continues its anti-business regulatory push, which just ends up costing consumers higher prices,” Shimkus noted. “This sends another signal to stop harming business when our unemployment rate is still so high. If EPA were to regulate coal ash as hazardous, the many other uses in construction materials and concrete products would basically be banned. “In subcommittee, I promised to continue working to make this bill better and to make it such that the Senate could concur. I hope that my amendment takes us to that point,” he added. The amendment was approved on a voice vote. The underlying legislation would allow states to continue to manage and regulate coal ash, including implementing a permitting system. It would also set federal standards for the first time. EPA would be given the ability to review the state’s permitting process to make sure it meets the federal minimums. “My manager’s amendment outlines a state inspection process and authorizes them to set a schedule for any corrections that may be necessary. Wind and surface water can also be included in the analysis of current coal ash landfills,” Shimkus explained. Cecil Roberts, international president of the United Mine Workers of America, wrote all Members of the House stating the union’s “strong support for H.R. 2273” and urged its passage. The bill did pass 267-144 and now moves to the Senate. ###
10.12.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House passage of Free Trade Agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. In addition, he voted for an extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance. “These agreements have been sitting on the President’s inbox since he took office. He finally submitted them to Congress last week, and we have approved them immediately with large bipartisan margins,” Shimkus noted. “Our global competitors are already trading with these countries. And these agreements will make it easier for our goods to be sold in these countries by reducing the tariffs on U.S. goods sold there. “These agreements will also help Illinois’ manufacturers, Illinois’ farmers, and Illinois’ jobs,” Shimkus added. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and American Farm Bureau were among the groups supporting these trade agreements, which could increase exports by an estimated $13 billion. Trade Adjustment Assistance also passed as part of moving the trade agreements forward. TAA assistance is for those who lose their job due to foreign trade. This extension ends the program in 2014. Any additional spending was offset. ### Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House passage of Free Trade Agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. In addition, he voted for an extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance. “These agreements have been sitting on the President’s inbox since he took office. He finally submitted them to Congress last week, and we have approved them immediately with large bipartisan margins,” Shimkus noted. “Our global competitors are already trading with these countries. And these agreements will make it easier for our goods to be sold in these countries by reducing the tariffs on U.S. goods sold there. “These agreements will also help Illinois’ manufacturers, Illinois’ farmers, and Illinois’ jobs,” Shimkus added. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and American Farm Bureau were among the groups supporting these trade agreements, which could increase exports by an estimated $13 billion. Trade Adjustment Assistance also passed as part of moving the trade agreements forward. TAA assistance is for those who lose their job due to foreign trade. This extension ends the program in 2014. Any additional spending was offset. ###
10.12.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) was named a Taxpayer Hero by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste for his votes in 2010. The ratings were announced last week. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste used 46 House tax and spending votes to determine their ratings. Shimkus received a score of 89 percent, earning him the Taxpayer Hero title. “I am honored to be recognized for my votes,” Shimkus stated. “I always talk about having been raised in this district and having similar values to those I represent. “I think this rating is an indicator of how the people of central and southern Illinois would vote – given the chance – on keeping taxes low and stopping wasteful spending.” ###
10.06.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) joined a bipartisan majority that passed the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act (HR 2681), which would prevent three new Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rules that threaten plant closures. The bill says to step back and look at finding achievable environmental goals, not pie in the sky goals that would cost billions of dollars and thousands of jobs. “The President always talks about ‘jobs,’ yet his EPA proposes rule after rule that would harm local businesses,” Shimkus noted. “And with unemployment rates over ten percent in all of the seven southernmost counties in Illinois, this bill is necessary.” The bill would give EPA 15 months to come up with a new proposal that would be achievable. Industry would have five years to then comply with the rule. A wide range of business, labor, and tax groups supported the legislation. The bill came out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, on which Shimkus serves. This bill passed 262-161 and now moves to the Senate for consideration. ###
10.04.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement upon the announcement of Congressman Jerry Costello’s retirement: “This morning I received a call from Congressman Jerry Costello informing me that he has decided to retire from public office as a Member of Congress. This is a great loss for Southern Illinois and a personal loss for me. “While we hail from different political parties, I have counted Jerry as one of my closest friends and confidants. I have been amazed at the productivity of Jerry in meeting the needs of the working men and women that he represents. In the House majority or in the minority, Jerry always seemed to get the job done. Regardless of who held the White House, Jerry was always able to get the work done. “Many have heard me call him the patron saint of Scott Air Force Base. Well even patron saints retire, which will cause all of us to work a little harder to fill this gap. To Georgia and the entire Costello clan, thanks for sharing Jerry with me, Southern Illinois, and the country.” ###
09.15.2011	Washington, DC - On Thursday, the U.S. House voted to stop the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from “ordering any employer to close, relocate, or transfer employment under any circumstance,” according to Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19). The Protecting Jobs From Government Interference Act (HR 2587) was brought up by House Republicans as part of their effort to show how the Administration is actually taking regulatory actions that stifle job creation and harm the economy. “A private business should be allowed to locate anywhere in the United States that they choose,” Shimkus noted. “Yet the NLRB says ‘no you can’t build a plant in that state.’ That’s ridiculous.” On April 20, 2011, the NLRB issued a complaint against Boeing for deciding to build a new plant in South Carolina. However, the plant is already up and running. It cost $750 million and has over 1,000 employees. “While this Administration talks about jobs a lot, in reality they are causing uncertainty in the economy and trying to close down plants,” Shimkus added. “Dictating where a private company must locate jobs sounds more like communism than a democratic republic that we are.” ###
09.09.2011	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is scheduled to participate in two events on September 11 – the tenth anniversary of the attacks. The first event will be a dedication ceremony at the Holiday Shores Fire Department. They have obtained a piece of World Trade Center steel and have created a memorial garden that will be dedicated Sunday morning. The second event is the Riverbend Memorial Service at Lewis and Clark Community College in Godfrey. The program features retired Col. Oliver North. “September 11 is always a hallowed day, but the tenth anniversary of the attacks has increased both the number of events being held and the discussion surrounding the anniversary, particularly since bin Laden was killed earlier this year,” Shimkus noted. “Our nation will never be the same. We must remain vigilant, as those who wish to do us harm will never stop planning and plotting. They fear our freedom, so we must stand strong at home and abroad.” The Congressman has recorded his thoughts on this anniversary and answered other 9-11 questions in a video that is posted on YouTube at www.youtube.com/repshimkus. ###
09.08.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement on the speech given by President Obama before a joint session of Congress on September 8: “Just today the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power that I serve on heard from two businesses that say the Administration’s rule proposals are unobtainable with current technology and would result in job losses. “I applaud the President’s decision last week to pull a proposed EPA rule that would have tightened ground-level ozone. Businesses need certainty in order to invest in equipment or jobs, and the many rules this Administration have on the drawing board create uncertainty. “I wish the President would place a freeze on new federal regulations until the economy recovers. I hope he does follow through on his review of rules and regulations and make those 500 reforms he cited in his speech. “In addition, the Republican House would certainly pass free trade agreements with Columbia, Panama, and South Korea; however, the President has yet to officially send them to Congress for a vote. These FTAs would increase jobs here, not in the other countries. “The House has passed 11 bills that have had no vote in the Senate. These would help reduce bureaucracy and encourage job creation. These bills include The Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act (HR 872), The Energy Tax Prevention Act (HR 910), and Putting the Gulf of Mexico Back to Work Act (HR 1229). “The North American-Made Energy Security Act (HR 1938) passed the House on July 26 with bipartisan support. It would expedite the Administration’s decision on the Keystone XL pipeline. If built, it would create 20,000 construction jobs and help reduce our reliance on overseas imported oil. “I will look closely at the President’s proposals, but so far neither stimulus nor tax cuts have helped lower the unemployment rate.” ###
09.07.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, college students, and anyone interested should apply now for summer 2012 admission. “As the school year begins, many students are thinking about what’s next. As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, I am eager to provide information and assist with nominations to the military academies,” Shimkus stated. To be eligible for appointment, you must be a United States citizen; at least 17 and not more than 23 years of age on July 1, 2012; unmarried; not pregnant; have no dependents; and a legal resident of the 19th Congressional District of Illinois. Average acceptable ACT scores are 24 in both math and English. Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Those seeking more information or who are interested in applying for any or all of the academies should write or call for an application packet from Congressman John Shimkus, 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234; (618)344-3065. Completed applications must be received by November 2, 2011. The Congressman nominates to the academies; however, academy officials actually make the final selection regarding admission. Those accepted into an academy are notified in the spring. “I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact us now,” Shimkus added. “There are several steps in this process, and applications must be filed with both my office and the individual academies.” ###
09.01.2011	Richland, WA - Congressman John Shimkus (R, IL-19), chairman of the Environment and the Economy Subcommittee, and Congressman Doc Hastings (R, WA-4), chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, toured the Department of Energy (DOE) Hanford nuclear site to see the waste cleanup, reprocessing, and vitrification facility in Richland, Washington, today. \ Right now, 177 underground storage tanks, holding 53 million gallons of radioactive waste left over from Cold War nuclear weapons programs, reside at the Hanford site. The facility, on the banks of the Columbia River, turns leftover nuclear waste into glass in preparation for permanent geological storage. “Like Illinois, which has more spent nuclear fuel than any other state, Hanford is a prime example of the unmet promises across America to permanently relocate and secure nuclear waste,” said Shimkus. “That final destination by law is Yucca Mountain. Yet Yucca Mountain remains blocked by political pandering, not any scientific or legal realities, of the Obama Administration.” “I appreciate Congressman Shimkus taking the time to visit the Hanford nuclear site. Today, the 586-square-mile Hanford site is the world’s largest environmental cleanup project, and the federal government has a legal and moral responsibility to cleanup this waste,” said Hastings. “Keeping the cleanup process moving forward is one of my top priorities in Congress, and I appreciate John’s commitment in this shared goal.” In 1987 Yucca Mountain was named the sole site for a permanent repository of nuclear waste. DOE confirmed the scientific side of this decision in 1994. In 2002 Congress and the President approved Yucca Mountain again. To date, over $14 billion in ratepayer and taxpayer dollars have been invested to ready Yucca for permanent, secure storage of America’s high level nuclear waste. This is in addition to $960 million and counting in taxpayer dollars paid out to energy companies by the federal government for breach of contract for our failure to fulfill our promise and take the waste from utilities. ###
08.01.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has announced his support for the bipartisan, bicameral agreement to both reduce federal government spending while avoiding default by raising the debt ceiling. “This is a major achievement that brings Democrats and Republicans in both the House and Senate together in support of this agreement,” Shimkus said. “I have always said we have a spending problem, not a revenue problem. This plan limits our spending for the next ten years. In addition, this plan does not raise taxes. “The situation we are in today can be blamed on both parties, but this agreement ties the debt ceiling increase to reduced spending. In addition, the joint commission is empowered to come to a long-term solution on our entitlement programs, and the savings totals at least $2.1 trillion over the next ten years.” The vote in the House on the agreement is expected later today. ### NOTE: Congressman Shimkus spoke on the floor of the House in support of the agreement earlier today. Those comments can be accessed at www.youtube.com/repshimkus.
07.12.2011	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives today adopted language to add up to a five-year delay of mandatory insurance purchase requirements in newly mapped areas during consideration of H.R. 1309, the Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2011. U.S. Congressmen Jerry Costello (D-IL), John Shimkus (R-IL) and Aaron Schock (R-IL) worked with the Financial Services Committee on the amendment to increase the delay from three to up to five years. The bill also phases in flood insurance rates over an additional five years. The House is expected to approve the bill later today. The mandatory purchase delay provisions respond to ongoing concerns regarding the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA’s) nationwide flood remapping process, and are based on H.R. 898, legislation first introduced by Costello last Congress (H.R. 3415). FEMA remapping, while important and necessary, threatens homeowners in many areas who have not had to buy flood insurance previously with having to buy insurance under a new map, particularly areas with levees that need improvements. Delaying mandatory purchase will provide communities an incentive and time to fix levees without the adverse economic impact of expensive new insurance premiums. “We will continue to work to fix our levees and protect our citizens. The best way to do that is to make sure we make levee improvements as quickly as possible, and delaying mandatory purchase requirements can help get this done. In the Metro East, local leaders have moved quickly to secure financing to take on this work, and these efforts should be recognized and assisted at the federal level,” said Costello. “Our region has worked diligently to make needed improvements to the levees, and we worked to make sure this legislation helps our region versus harming it. Our unique issues have been addressed. I want to thank Chairmen Bachus and Biggert for their help in getting these important changes made to this legislation,” stated Shimkus. “I strongly support this amendment to help solve a problem that is prevalent in my district as well as many rural districts across the heartland. Flood insurance issues affect every town, but especially those along the river banks. I want to thank Chairman Bachus for his work with other members of the delegation in Illinois and other waterways districts whose towns are feeling the pain of many of these new unfunded mandates put forward by FEMA,” said Schock. ###
06.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Members of the U.S. House of Representatives today introduced the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) Act, HR 2182, to provide incentives for the development of new antibiotics needed to treat new and emerging resistant bugs. The GAIN Act is authored by Congressman Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-GA) and co-sponsored by Representatives Gene Green (D-TX), Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Mike Rogers (R-MI), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), and John Shimkus (R-IL). The following statements were issued along with the introduction of the bipartisan legislation: Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA): “There are some issues so important they transcend politics-as-usual. Protecting American families from deadly infections is certainly one of them, which is why my colleagues and I are introducing the GAIN Act. With this legislation, we hope to ensure that new drugs will be available to combat the rising numbers of antibiotic-resistant bugs that threaten Americans in hospitals, on the battlefield, in their homes, and in our schools. Health professionals have been sounding the alarm on this problem for over a decade – a solution to this problem is long overdue.” Rep. Gene Green (D-TX): “To date, antibiotics have been overused and over prescribed. This has resulted in mutating new bacteria with fewer and fewer antibiotics to combat infection. The GAIN Act, by providing innovators with additional data exclusivity, seeks to responsibly spur innovation and increase the number of new antibiotics in the FDA approval pipeline. The growing threat of antibiotic resistance is very disconcerting and an issue Congress must take steps to address before it becomes a full blown public health crisis.” Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL): “This legislation is important, as the United States is where nearly every new drug is developed. If we seriously are concerned about resistant drugs, we must encourage the manufacturers and the FDA to move on this need.” Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA): “Every day, patients in our country, and around the world, die because they develop infections resistant to existing antibiotics. As bacteria evolve, it’s critical that antibiotics stay a step ahead of the problem. This bill encourages companies to develop new antibiotics, an area that’s traditionally been unprofitable for most companies and the reason why they are really lacking in our healthcare system. The GAIN Act is a bipartisan approach to stave off a public health crisis and I look forward to its passage into law.” Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI): “The GAIN Act will encourage the development of next-generation antibiotic drugs to protect public health and our national security. It will also ensure that we use our nation’s greatest resource – our own scientists and engineers – to come up with innovative solutions to reduce antimicrobial resistance.” Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO): “Amidst growing concerns about antibiotic resistance and its very real threat to the public health, I am proud today to cosponsor the GAIN Act. We face not only resistance to treatments for the bacterial illnesses we’ve long confronted, but also the threats of mutations or new illnesses we’ve yet to encounter. This bill addresses the need for new and innovative antibiotic treatments to better protect our families and the health of the American public as a whole for years to come.” ###
05.16.2011	Harrisburg, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is planning a series of special office hours on Friday, May 27, to assist the victims of flooding in southeastern Illinois. “People, who had to evacuate or who experienced flooding of their home or business, may have the need for assistance related to documents lost or in order to rebuild,” Shimkus said. “My office has prepared a Disaster and Recovery Resources book that is available online right now. We will also be able to assist in person on Friday, May 27.” The type of assistance available includes, but is not limited to: helping replace a lost Social Security card, getting a loan to rehab a property damaged by flood water, or replacing USDA or Forest Service documents. The Congressman’s office will be holding these special office hours on Friday, May 27: 10:00 – 11:00 a.m.Carmi City Hall, 225 East Main Street (Routes 1 and 14) 11:00 a.m. – 12 noonShawneetown City Hall, 330 North Lincoln Blvd. 12:30 – 1:30 p.m.Golden Circle, Route 146 East, Elizabethtown 1:00 – 2:00 p.m.Golconda City Hall, 118 North Monroe Street 2:00 – 3:00 p.m.Metropolis Community Center, 900 West Tenth Street (Route 45) Appointments are not necessary. Local residents can come by to get information on services they need. The Congressman’s staff will be present during the entire time; Congressman Shimkus himself will also be stopping in at each location. The Congressman’s local office in Harrisburg can be reached at 252-8271. “At this time a federal disaster declaration has not been made,” Shimkus explained. “If that is done, more information and other assistance will be available. However, most disaster assistance is for governmental bodies, such as cities, counties, etc. I wanted to reach out to the individuals, who may or may not have additional assistance available later even with a federal disaster declaration.” ###
05.12.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House passage of two bills that would help speed development of oil exploration and recovery in the Gulf of Mexico. “At a time when gasoline prices are over four dollars in most of my district, we need to be doing everything we can to increase the exploration and production of oil here in the United States,” Shimkus stated. Putting the Gulf of Mexico Back to Work Act (HR 1229) passed 263-163 on May 11. This bill requires the Secretary of the Interior to decide whether to issue or not to issue a permit with 30 days after receiving an application; two 15 day extensions are permitted. Reversing President Obama’s Offshore Moratorium Act (HR 1231) passed on May 12. This bill would open at least half of the un-leased offshore acreage with recoverable oil and gas resources. “These pieces of legislation are not going to make a difference in the price at the pump today, but it does indicate that we will start going after our nation’s natural resources,” Shimkus noted. “We need to reduce our dependence on oil from outside our hemisphere.” ###
05.11.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House Energy and Commerce Committee passage of medical liability legislation that he cosponsored, the Help Efficient, Accessible, Low-cost, Timely Healthcare (HEALTH) Act of 2011 (HR 5). “Southern Illinois knows what it is like to have lost hundreds of doctors, including many specialists, due to extremely high medical liability insurance costs,” Shimkus said. “I support a federal cap for noneconomic damages of $250,000 in lawsuits arising from health care goods or services liability. “We also include cases against medical devices and pharmaceuticals that have been approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Punitive damages do not belong in cases involving perfectly legal conduct where there is full compliance with all FDA safety and effectiveness requirements. “In addition, liability is made proportional to the percentage of responsibility, and attorney fees are limited based on a percentage basis,” Shimkus added. The legislation was approved on May 11 by the Energy and Commerce Committee and now moves to the full House for consideration. ### Note to editors: More information is available here: https://energycommerce.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=8592.
05.04.2011	Washington, DC - Congressmen John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), Eliot Engel (D, New York-17), Roscoe Bartlett (R, Maryland-6), and Steve Israel (D, New York-2) today introduced the Open Fuel Standard (OFS) Act (HR 1687), which is intended to bring fuel competition to the pump. The OFS would require that 50 percent of new automobiles in 2014, 80 percent in 2016, and 95percent in 2017, would be warranted to operate on nonpetroleum fuels in addition to or instead of petroleum based fuels. Compliance possibilities include the full array of existing technologies – including flex fuel, natural gas, hydrogen, biodiesel, plug-in electric drive, and fuel cell – and a catch-all for new technologies. This requirement will then provide certainty to investors to produce alternative fuels and fueling stations to have a variety of pumps supplying those alternative fuels. “My goal is for the consumer to have the choice when they pull up to the pump. A choice of fuels made from oil, coal, renewables, natural gas, waste products, and other feedstock,” Shimkus said. “The consumer can then make a choice based on price or the energy source. In addition, this is one way for our nation to move toward energy independence.” “Our dependence on oil is fueled by demand from our transportation sector. It is by far the biggest reason we transfer $600 billion per year to hostile nations to pay for oil at ever-increasing costs. By employing the Open Fuel Standard, we can force petroleum to compete on the open market with other types of fuel. We don’t have to wait for the perfect technology. We can turn this around right now, at little to no cost, and create a safer and more prosperous America,” said Engel. Bartlett said, “The International Energy Agency (IEA) documented that worldwide conventional crude oil production peaked in 2006-2007. As a result, Americans face the prospect of repeated oil supply shocks and ruinous price spikes. This technology neutral Open Fuel Standard legislation will give Americans options they can choose to end their personal dependence and the strategic monopoly of oil for transportation. That’s why we have come together as Republicans and Democrats to support OFS as a key step to break the cycle of pain at the pump.” “As any driver who has recently filled up their tank knows, gas prices are simply unsustainable. In order to end big oil’s stranglehold on our economy and transportation industry, we need to phase them out. By requiring auto companies to convert their fleets to flex fuel vehicles, we will be giving consumers the choices they deserve,” added Israel. The Big Three automobile companies have in the past stated their willingness to make 50 percent of new vehicles flex fuel by 2012. The cost of doing so is about $100 per vehicle. In Brazil the ratio of flex fuel vehicles went from zero to 70 percent in just three years. ###
05.03.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy, led a bipartisan Congressional delegation of Committee members and staff to a tour of the Yucca Mountain site. Yucca Mountain was designated by Congress and previous Administrations as the long-term storage site for nuclear waste in the United States. The Obama Administration put a stop last year to over 20 years of work and over $14 billion in taxpayer and electricity ratepayer spending. “Our Committee is taking on an aggressive role of doing our Constitutional duty of government oversight of this Administration and its actions,” Shimkus said. “Yucca Mountain was stopped for no apparent scientific or technical reasons. “There are over 120 storage pools scattered around the country. We need to proceed with a consolidated site, and one site has been in the works for years. “Not only have all the scientific studies at Yucca shown it is capable of handling nuclear waste, but those living closest to the site in Pahrump and Nye County want to see Yucca move forward,” Shimkus noted. “They have seen the loss of jobs and economic activity since the site has shuttered.” Joining Shimkus were Ranking Member Gene Green (D, Texas-29) and Dr. Michael Burgess (R, Texas-26). ###
04.11.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued a warning to Illinois’ taxpayers: you are paying for government until April 15, 2011. “Nearly one-third of your working year goes to pay for federal, state, and local taxes in Illinois,” Shimkus stated. Tax Freedom Day is calculated by the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization based in Washington, DC. They take into account income taxes, Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes, sales taxes, and local taxes. The calculations use tax receipts, not spending. “If our deficit spending were included, the national Tax Freedom Day would be May 23, not April 12 – an additional 41 days to pay for $1.48 trillion in borrowed money,” Shimkus noted. Neighboring states’ Tax Freedom Days are April 2 in Kentucky, April 4 in Missouri, and April 5 in Indiana. The earliest Tax Freedom Day occurs in Mississippi on March 26, and the latest Tax Freedom Day is May 2 in Connecticut. ###
04.07.2011	Washington, DC - With the price of gasoline again approaching $4 a gallon, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for the Energy Tax Prevention Act, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives April 7 255-172. The legislation would keep the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from using the Clean Air Act to unilaterally impose greenhouse gas regulations to address climate change, bypassing the will of Congress. “The Obama Administration was unable to get its cap-and-trade agenda through even a Democrat-controlled Congress, so now it is attempting to go around the legislative branch by using EPA regulations,” Shimkus said. “This would drive gas prices even higher, increase utility rates, send manufacturing jobs overseas, and hinder our economic recovery.” The cap-and-trade legislation considered by the last Congress was estimated to have the potential to increase the price of a gallon of gasoline by 19 cents in 2015 and 95 cents in 2050. Imposing the same policy through regulations likely would be even more costly, as the EPA administrator has acknowledged. The Energy Tax Prevention Act permanently prevents such regulation under the Clean Air Act. “This bill will not change or weaken in any way the Clean Air Act’s ability to protect Americans from harmful air pollution,” Shimkus added. “The Clean Air Act will continue to be used to monitor, regulate, and reduce pollutants and protect Americans’ health. This legislation is simply designed to clarify that the Clean Air Act does not grant EPA the authority to regulate greenhouse gases to address climate change.” The Energy Tax Prevention Act now moves to the Senate. ###
04.05.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) took time on the floor of the U.S. House on Monday night, April 4, to congratulate a Southern Illinois native and basketball legend, Mr. Jerry Sloan, on his retirement from the Utah Jazz. Sloan, a resident of McLeansboro, had an outstanding high school, college, and professional basketball career before entering the coaching profession. His number four has been retired by the Chicago Bulls; he is third on the all-time NBA wins list; and he is a member of the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame. The Congressman’s remarks can be viewed here. ###
03.03.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House passage of legislation that would repeal a portion of the health care law that requires small businesses to file a report with the IRS if they spent just $600 with one company on any purchases that year. “This was an attempt to empower the IRS to get into every business in the country through the health care law,” Shimkus said. “It was burdensome and ridiculous. “I have used the example of a high school student who mows grass. If he or she bought all their gas at the same gas station and spent over $600, that student would have to issue a 1099 form to the gas station.” The Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011 (HR 4) passed the House March 3 by a vote of 314-112 and now goes to the Senate. Shimkus was a cosponsor of the bill. “The House already voted to repeal the health care law outright; however, the Senate did not support repeal. Now we will pursue repealing the many individual problems with the health care law, beginning with the 1099 problem” Shimkus noted. ###
02.22.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is seeking entries for the 2011 Congressional Art Competition. The annual contest for high school students has been held nationwide in each Congressional district since 1982. “This is a unique competition, as the entries are limited by geography and the winner gets national exposure,” Shimkus explained. “I encourage all student artists to submit their work.” The contest is open to high school students who reside in the 19th District or in a school district that is in the 19th District. The winning entry from Shimkus’ district is displayed with other winners from around the country in the underground tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building and the U.S. Capitol. In addition, the winner will be flown courtesy of Southwest Airlines to Washington for a special ceremony. The deadline to submit entries is Friday, May 6. Information has been sent to high schools and is also available from any of Shimkus’ offices. To have an information packet sent directly to you, call Matt at 217-492-5090, or access the forms online at shimkus.house.gov under Constituent Services. “The entries must be original artwork that meets the guidelines of the contest,” Shimkus said. “We have had collages, oil paintings, pencil drawings, photographs, and other types of art entered over the years.” ###
02.18.2011	Washington, DC - “Washington has taxed too much, spent too much, and borrowed too much over the years. We must now start to restrain the annual spending in order to reduce our deficit and slow the growth of our long-term debt,” explained Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) after he voted for the Continuing Resolution for fiscal year (FY) 2011 appropriations. The Continuing Resolution, which passed the House very early Saturday morning, would fund the federal government from March 4 to September 30, 2011. Republicans proposed $100 billion in cuts from the budget President Obama proposed last year. Those cuts are split between security areas ($19 billion in savings) and non-security areas ($81 billion). “This whole week we debated additional cuts,” Shimkus said. “But we are still going to spend over one trillion dollars on discretionary spending, which is much higher than traditional levels.” Earlier this month House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R, Wisconsin-1) said, “Washington’s spending spree is over.” Shimkus added, “The stimulus and higher spending over the last two years have increased our expenditures dramatically, that is why we want to move federal spending back to 2008 levels. The President’s budget proposal for FY2012 starts with a deficit over $1.6 trillion If we do not take action – dramatic action to some – we will never reduce our annual deficit and our long-term debt. “Finally, I understand that these cuts will be felt. And they will be felt in Illinois by real people; however, we must start somewhere!” ###
02.10.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has invited Mr. Leonard Hopkins, the Fuel Procurement and Compliance Manager of Southern Illinois Power Cooperative based in rural Marion, to testify before the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy. Shimkus is chairman of that subcommittee. “We want to discuss how government regulations hurt the economy and cause job losses and higher prices for consumers,” Shimkus said. “We did not ever hold the EPA accountable in the last Congress for the actions they take that are harmful. “I expect Mr. Hopkins to give us information on the cost of regulations to consumers in their service territory as well as how much personnel time and cost is involved in meeting EPA rules.” The hearing entitled, “Environmental Regulations, the Economy, and Jobs,” will be held on Tuesday, February 15, at 1:00 p.m. EST in Room 2322 of the Rayburn House Office Building. The hearing should be available online at www.energycommerce.house.gov. Southern Illinois Power Cooperative is a power supply company that serves approximately 90,000 users, which represents about 193,000 people. Electricity deliver is made by the coop’s members, which are Clinton County Electric Cooperative, Clay Electric Co-operative, Egyptian Electric Cooperative, Monroe County Electric Co-operative, SouthEastern Illinois Electric Cooperative, Southern Illinois Electric Cooperative, Tri-County Electric Cooperative, City of Red Bud, and City of McLeansboro. ###
02.10.2011	Washington, DC - In response to the recent suspension of surgeries at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs John Cochran Medical Center, the bipartisan St. Louis area Congressional delegation is calling for a return of the House Veterans Affairs Committee to St. Louis. A special hearing of that committee was held in St. Louis following last year’s dental clinic safety lapses. Signing the letter to VA Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (R, Florida) and Ranking Member Bob Filner (D, California) were Congressmen/woman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), Jerry Costello (D, Illinois-12), Russ Carnahan (D, Missouri-3), Jo Ann Emerson (R, Missouri-8), Todd Akin (R, Missouri-2), Tim Johnson (R, Illinois-15), William Lacy Clay (D, Missouri-1), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R, Missouri-9), and Bobby Schilling (R, Illinois-17). The joint letter notes the belief that “serious systemic issues at Cochran” need to be investigated and that surgeries at the Marion, Illinois, VA Medical Center have still not resumed after problems surfaced there in 2007. The complete letter follows: Dear Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Filner, Last July, you were in attendance at a field hearing held in St. Louis to address the problems at John Cochran VA Medical (Cochran) center. Unfortunately, last Thursday Cochran announced a halt to surgeries due to improper sterilization of equipment. The VA believes it to be a machine malfunction based on the ongoing investigation. Both are sterilization problems, but with different causes. We believe that there are serious systemic issues at Cochran that need to be investigated by the House Veterans Affairs Committee. In addition, Marion VA Medical Center in southern Illinois is still not performing inpatient surgeries after stopping all surgeries in 2007 due to a variety of problems, including malpractice. While Cochran is being reviewed, the VA is contracting with local hospitals to perform their surgeries. We ask that you return to St. Louis to do a follow up hearing on the entire Cochran facility; since last year’s hearing focused primarily on the dental clinic and the sterile processing distribution department. And in future House Veterans Affairs Committee hearings in Washington, we ask that these incidents be brought up in order to determine whether a national issue underlies these local problems. We know you share in our commitment to our nation’s veterans, and we are sure you also share in our desire to make sure that the problems at Cochran are addressed. Thank you for your attention to this matter. ###
02.04.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to be one of the co-chairs of the Congressional Coal Caucus during the 112th Congress. Along with Shimkus, Congressman Jerry Costello (D, Illinois-12), Shelley Moore Capito (R, West Virginia), Tim Holden (D, Pennsylvania), Denny Rehberg (R, Montana), and Jason Altmire (D, Pennsylvania) are the other co-chairs. A total of 44 Republicans and 12 Democrats have joined the caucus thus far. “We will continue to use coal in our manufacturing and electricity generation for some time to come,” Shimkus stated. “We can embrace the use of the vast natural resources of our nation, or we can shoot ourselves in the foot economically. “Our nation needs to seek ways to reduce our reliance on Middle Eastern oil. Coal can be a part of that through coal gasification and coal-to-liquid. “I am hopeful that coal production will increase in Illinois, as several new projects are in the works. And I am privileged to be one of those in Washington who continues to press for even more use of coal.” ###
02.03.2011	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement after learning of surgeries being cancelled as of Wednesday due to improper sterilization procedure of surgical instruments: “I am extremely disappointed in the Department of Veterans Affairs. This is the second major problem at Cochran, which follows past problems not fully recovered from at the Marion VA. “Last year the House Veterans Affairs Committee held a special hearing in St. Louis. Former Chairman Filner and current Chairman Miller both attended. Unfortunately, I believe another hearing is not only necessary in St. Louis, but in Washington. “Veterans must inform their respective Congressman about problems they encounter, whether at Cochran, Marion, Jefferson Barracks, or other clinics throughout the region. We can only help when we are aware of the problems.” ###
01.25.2011	Washington, DC - On the day of the national March for Life in Washington, DC, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce his continued support for pro-life positions and is cosponsoring several pieces of related legislation and joined in a letter on the issue. “I believe the issue of life is not a Republican or Democrat issue; it is not a liberal or conservative issue; it is a moral issue,” Shimkus said. “You cannot have a middle position on this issue.” Shimkus is cosponsoring: HR 3 – No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. This bill would impose a consistent government-wide ban on abortion funding. Various current policies affect different government agencies, and this bill would make permanent the Hyde Amendment (HHS funding), the Helms Amendment (overseas funding), the Smith FEHBP Amendment (federal employee insurance), the Dornan Amendment (DC funding), the Hyde-Weldon conscience clause, and other program policies. HR 217 – the Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act. This bill prohibits federal funds from going to any organization that provides abortions or that contributes funds to another group that provides abortions. HR 358 – the Protect Life Act. This bill provides that no federal funds could cover abortion under the new health care law, removes the mandate that private insurance cover abortion, and prohibits the government from administering health plans that cover abortion. Basically, it applies the Hyde Amendment to health care. HR 374 – the Life at Conception Act. This bill would guarantee constitutional rights to an unborn child. In addition, Shimkus has joined in signing a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Kathleen Sebelius that opposes the use of telemedicine to prescribe mifepristone, more commonly known as RU-486, the abortion drug. It has become known that Planned Parenthood clinics in Iowa are prescribing the drug via teleconference without a doctor physically present. “Our letter to Secretary Sebelius points out that federal funds could have been used to establish the telehealth centers and that the use of RU-486 is not without risks and a doctor’s presence ‘violates FDA protocols,’” Shimkus explained. Shimkus is scheduled to meet in Washington, DC, with some of the Illinois’ groups attending the March for Life. ###
01.19.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for legislation (HR 2) that would repeal the health care law implemented last year.“The new Republican-led Congress is keeping a pledge made to the American people to bring this legislation to the floor for a vote,” Shimkus explained. “This is just the first step in removing the existing job-killing legislation that is actually raising the price of health insurance, not reducing the costs. “The original law includes $500 billion in tax increases, $500 billion in Medicare cuts, and establishes hundreds of new government agencies. “Once removed, we can establish a new health care law that removes annual and lifetime caps on insurance policies, prevents restrictions such as pre-existing conditions from being used against a person, allows for the sale of health insurance across state lines, and makes high-risk pools more workable among other changes,” Shimkus noted. ### NOTE: Congressman Shimkus’ comments on the floor of the U.S. House today and a CNBC interview on health care are among the videos available on YouTube.
01.18.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is kicking off his “Valentines for Heroes” program, which has become a popular tradition for his constituents. The Congressman’s district offices annually collect valentines for distribution to veterans and those currently serving in the military. “Thousands and thousands of valentines have come into my offices since we began ‘Valentines for Heroes,’ ” he noted. “As I’ve said before, the people of this region are overwhelmingly generous and supportive of our military men and women, past and present.” This year, valentines will be accepted at Shimkus’ offices between now and the first week of February to be distributed to local VA and military facilities before or on Valentine’s Day. A few rules: Valentines should not be addressed to a specific person. Do not include identifying information about yourself, such as phone number or address, on valentines, but signatures and messages of support are appreciated. Valentines should not be placed in individual envelopes, as they will all be opened to screen for appropriateness. Do not include blank valentines. Valentines may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman John Shimkus at any of his district offices: 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234 (Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.) 3130 Chatham Road, Suite C, Springfield, IL 62704 (Monday-Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.) City Hall, Room 12, 110 East Locust Street, Harrisburg, IL 62946 (Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.-4 p.m.) 221 East Broadway, Suite 102, Centralia, IL 62801 (Wednesday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m.) 120 South Fair, Olney, IL 62450 (Thursday, 10 a.m.-4 p.m
01.07.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) was named to four of the six subcommittees of the House Energy and Commerce Committee Friday. Shimkus will chair the Subcommittee on Environment and Economy and also sit on the Subcommittees on Communications and Technology; Energy and Power; and Health. “I thank Chairman Upton for following through on his promise that I be allowed to remain on the three subcommittees I previously served on in addition to chairing the new subcommittee,” Shimkus said. “I believe this is the best committee in the House of Representatives, as its jurisdiction is vital not only to my district but our nation as a whole. “The 112th Congress will allow for true oversight of the Executive Branch by the Legislative Branch as outlined in our Constitution,” he noted. “We will also work to produce legislation that will move our country’s economy forward.” Shimkus is beginning his eighth term in Congress and has sat on the Energy and Commerce Committee since his first term. That early assignment prohibits him from serving on any other full committee. ###
01.06.2011	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to cut Congress’ own budget by $35 million on just the second day of Republican control of the House. “This new Congress has promised to bring spending cuts to the floor every week,” Shimkus explained. “Our first vote had to be to cut our own budgets.” The resolution passed 410-13 that will cut all House Member’s office budgets, committee budgets, and leadership office budgets by five percent. “This must be the first step in our efforts to reduce the overwhelming deficit our nation faces,” Shimkus added. “Congress must start to review every department for potential savings. “The American people sent a message that government needs to be leaner and focused on growing the economy, not growing government.” ###
12.21.2010	Washington, DC - The FCC voted along partisan lines today to impose new regulations on the Internet. Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement: “The reality is the FCC’s regulations are a solution in search of a problem. The internet is not broken, and the FCC has no legal authority to ‘fix’ it without a directive from Congress. As a sector of the economy free from government interference, the Internet has expanded well beyond anyone’s imagination. “For average Internet users, this move means the slower roll out of new wired and wireless technologies as well as the slower deployment of high speed networks in underserved parts of the country. For the economy this move discourages capital investment, stifles job creation, and could raise the cost of Internet access. “I believe in freedom and less regulation. The FCC has just taken action opposite of that, and I agree with incoming Chairmen Upton and Walden that hearings in the Energy and Commerce Committee are absolutely necessary and will expose the FCC’s wrong direction.” ###
11.15.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has written all 177 members of the Illinois General Assembly urging them to support Tenaska’s Taylorville Energy Center in the upcoming veto session.In the letter, Shimkus highlights job creation and reliable electricity production as the main reasons to move forward with the project. The letter begins, “As the Congressman representing Taylorville and Christian County, it is my distinct pleasure to inform you of my support of the Taylorville Energy Center (TEC). I have heard from constituents and local leaders of the importance of this project to the regional economy. The General Assembly has supported this project in the past, and I urge you to continue supporting it during the veto session.” Shimkus is a strong supporter of Illinois coal including the Taylorville Energy Center since its inception. The “thousands of construction jobs and hundreds of permanent jobs that would be created during this time of unemployment rates at record levels” should be paramount in considering legislation in the veto session. ### Note: The complete letter is available here.
11.09.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is reaching out today to his Republican colleagues in his effort to become the next chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.Shimkus sent a letter to all Republican Members-elect explaining his intent, which is only relevant if Mr. Barton does not obtain a waiver. In the letter he notes that Republicans must not “ignore” the will of the people. He cites his Committee leadership, service on every subcommittee over the years, and rigorous oversight under his command as part of the package that he would bring to a chairmanship. His first effort would be to have the full House vote to repeal and replace ObamaCare. In outlining his plans for the full Committee, Shimkus highlighted following regular order, allowing amendments, and keeping all Members informed of how Committee work is affecting their districts. “I believe that I have the credentials within the Committee to bring fairness, without protests from the other side of the aisle, in its operation; to hold full oversight hearings on Administration actions and implementation of laws; and to use our jurisdiction to help create jobs, not more government regulation,” Shimkus stated. ### NOTE: The letter can be accessed here.
10.01.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against the Continuing Resolution (CR) that will continue federal government operations through December 3, 2010. “The Democrat-led Congress failed to pass a budget earlier this year. And in our federal process, the budget sets the guidelines for 12 appropriations bills that actually fund government,” Shimkus explained. “Then they failed to enact into law a single appropriations bill. “That means we have no funding in place for the fiscal year that begins on October 1. Thus, we have to pass this temporary funding mechanism until after the election. “I voted against this CR for the simple fact that it just keeps funding government at basically the same levels as we are spending now,” Shimkus noted. “We must start to get control of federal spending. We cannot continue down the same path of spending, deficits, and more debt piled on our children and grandchildren. “Our annual deficit is over $1.3 trillion, and our total national debt is over $13 trillion…how can be so lax in our duties and just keep spending money like it doesn’t matter. “Additionally, the majority did not allow Congress an opportunity to vote to keep the current tax rates and policies in place. The Democrats obviously want your taxes to go up in 2011,” he added. “Because if we do not vote to extend current tax policies, the average middle-income family making $63,366 will see a tax increase of $1,540 beginning January 1.” ###
09.13.2010	Washington, DC - The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW), a taxpayer watchdog group based in Washington, DC, has named Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) a Taxpayer Hero in its 2009 Congressional Ratings released in August. “Taxpayer Heroes and Super Heroes demonstrated unparalleled commitment to cutting wasteful spending, reducing the tax burden, and make government more accountable to taxpayers,” CCAGW President Tom Schatz said in the group’s news release announcing the ratings. “While far too many members of Congress on both of the Capitol demonstrated little regard for the consequences of failing to reduce the record $1.4 trillion deficit and the $13 trillion debt, the Taxpayer Heroes and Super Heroes give taxpayers hope for the future.” Shimkus acknowledged, “I am proud to be recognized for standing up for the taxpayers of the 19th District. I have heard from them their concern about our out-of-control spending in Washington. I have voted to make cuts and against the stimulus, against Obamacare, against cap and trade…yet those all passed the House and only cap and trade did not become law. “American families have had to look at their budgets and make some tough choices, yet in Washington we haven’t done that. We’ve just kept on borrowing and spending, and that has to stop,” he noted. Shimkus announced the Taxpayer Hero rating in Effingham with local businessman Bob Schultz and in Fairfield with retiree Herman Simpson. Shimkus scored an 82 percent in 2009 to earn Taxpayer Hero status. The rating was based on 120 House votes. The entire list of votes and ratings for every member of the House and Senate can be found at www.ccagwratings.org. ###
07.29.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is the lead Republican cosponsor of legislation introduced by Congresswoman Jane Harman (D, California). The Next Generation Public Safety Device Act of 2010 (HR 5907) would bring the next generation of mobile communications to first responders quicker and at a cheaper price. Shimkus, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and co-chair of the E-911 Caucus, stated, “We hear regularly from first responders about the difficulty in communicating with each other and the cost of new equipment. This legislation will spur development of new equipment and help keep the costs to departments reasonable. “September 11 moved us to make radio space available solely for emergency responders, yet the interoperability between various agencies and departments is not yet deployed nationwide. This bill authorizes research and development for communications devices in order to advance the technology and keep costs affordable,” he added. “We hope to get first responders’ equipment to advance in technology as fast as personal telecommunications equipment is always advancing,” Shimkus said. The Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials (APCO) International issued a statement in support of the legislation. Other organizations supporting the bill include the Fraternal Order of Police and the Rural Cellular Association In addition, the $70 million in potential grants made available in the legislation would come from the sale of spectrum in future years, resulting in a zero net cost. ###
07.26.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, college students, and anyone interested must apply now for summer 2011 admission. “As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and the recipient of a Congressional appointment myself, I am very proud to now assist others wishing to advance their lives and careers by serving their country,” Shimkus stated. To be eligible for appointment, you must be a United States citizen; at least 17 and not more than 23 years of age on July 1, 2011; unmarried; not pregnant; have no dependents; and a legal resident of the 19th Congressional District of Illinois. Average acceptable ACT scores are 24 in both math and English. Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Those seeking more information or interested in applying should write for an application packet from Congressman John Shimkus, 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234; Attention: Dora Rohan. If you have questions, please call Dora at (618)344-3065. Completed applications must be received prior to November 1, 2010. Shimkus nominates to the academies; however, academy officials actually make the final selections regarding admittance. Those accepted into an academy are notified in the spring. “I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact us now,” Shimkus added. “There are several steps in this process, and applications must be filed with both my office and the individual academies.” ###
07.23.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) will be welcoming Mr. Gregory Starnes, chief executive officer of Fayette County Hospital in Vandalia, and Dr. Matthew Winkleman of Primary Care Group in Harrisburg to Washington, DC, next week. Mr. Starnes and Dr. Winkleman have been invited to testify before the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health hearing entitled, “Implementation of the HITECH Act.” HITECH stands for Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health. It relates to the use of information technology (IT) in the health care industry, such as electronic records. “I am very pleased that we will have local voices telling us how our actions in Washington affect the everyday use of health IT in our Illinois facilities,” Shimkus said. “As a supporter of health IT, I look forward to being able to have Illinoisans share their thoughts, particularly lending a voice to the rural health community and the unique challenges they face.” The hearing will take place on Tuesday, July 27, at 1:00 p.m. eastern in Room 2322 of the Rayburn House Office Building. Committee events are web broadcast at https://energycommerce.house.gov/. ###
07.22.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) and Congressman Mike Ross (D, Arkansas-4) introduced The Renewable Fuels Marketing Act of 2010 (HR 5778) this week. The legislation would expand the availability of advanced renewable fuels at retail outlets. “Current law requires an increasing amount of renewable fuels to be used in motor vehicles; however, the infrastructure to meet those goals is currently unavailable,” Shimkus explained. “This legislation sets up a new system to determine if existing or new equipment is capable of handling higher levels of ethanol or biodiesel. ‘In addition, once existing equipment is approved, the retailer would legally be able to sell the higher-percentage renewable fuel.” The legislation has garnered the support of the Petroleum Marketers Association of America, the National Association of Convenience Stores, the Renewable Fuels Association, and the Society of Independent Gasoline Marketers of America among others. “They understand that the equipment must be approved and available to them in order to sell E-15 or B-20,” Shimkus noted. “This process will help reduce the costs of installing entirely new tanks if current equipment can be safely used. And it will help both farmers and renewable fuel producers meet our energy needs with American grown and made fuel.” The bill has been referred to the House Energy and Commerce Committee on which Shimkus serves. ###
07.20.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce U.S. Department of Transportation funding to the Shawnee Mass Transit District, which operates regional bus service as S.M.A.R.T. Shawnee MTD will be receiving $250,000 towards their new facility in Vienna. “The grant was from Federal Transit Administration 2009 Bus and Bus Facilities funds provided to the Illinois Department of Transportation,” Shimkus explained. “$200,000 is federal money, with the State of Illinois providing $50,000 matching funds. “This is just a portion of a previously announced $2.272 million administrative and maintenance facility to be built in the Industrial Park in Vienna” he added. “I was able to visit with Shawnee MTD officials and toured the site earlier this year.” Maureen Mann, Executive Director, noted, “Shawnee MTD serves Alexander, Johnson, Massac, Pulaski, and Union counties. We operate contract routes, shuttle routes, and door-to-door service. The new facility will allow us to consolidate all of our operations under one roof.” ###
07.15.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) supported House passage of legislation (HR 5114) that extends the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) through 2015 but also requires a delay and phase-in of new rates that will aid affected residents of the Metro East. “I originally cosponsored legislation introduced by Congressman Jerry Costello that has been incorporated into the bill before us today,” Shimkus explained. “His commitment to our region is evident by the passage of this legislation.” The bill’s highlights include: Extending NFIP through September 30, 2015. Delaying for five years the mandatory flood insurance requirements in “Special Flood Hazard Areas” designated after September 1, 2008. Phasing-in the actuarial rates over five years for newly mapped and designated “Special Flood Hazard Areas.” Increasing coverage limits to $325,000 for residences, $135,000 for contents, and $670,000 for nonresidential properties. Allows monthly installments for families below 200 percent of poverty. “The five and five provisions really allow our locally impacted families and businesses to have new flood insurance rates implemented over a ten year period versus immediately if this legislation was not passed,” Shimkus said. “Again I congratulate Congressman Costello for getting the provisions important to our districts included in this bill.” This bill passed the House 329-90 and now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
07.15.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce U.S. Department of Labor funding for three YouthBuild programs – Godfrey, Mt. Vernon, and Springfield. “YouthBuild assists out-of-school young adults by training them in a construction skill at the same time they are working toward their GED or diploma,” Shimkus explained. “I have visited YouthBuild projects and have found them to be valuable in reaching young adults who have not been able to continue in a traditional school setting.” Lewis and Clark Community College in Godfrey will be receiving $303,750. Springfield Urban League will be receiving $375,000. United Methodist Children’s Home in Mt. Vernon will be receiving $387,462. “The projects the YouthBuild participants work on also have a benefit to the community, in addition to hopefully earning them a job upon completion,” Shimkus added. ###
07.07.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, issued the following statement after learning that President Obama plans to use a recess appointment to put Dr. Donald Berwick in as administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS): “I am disappointed that the President is choosing to avoid a Senate confirmation process for Dr. Berwick for such an important position. As the new healthcare law is implemented, CMS will have great powers, and the American people deserve to have a fully-vetted person serving in the role of administrator. “There are many questions surrounding Dr. Berwick’s view on healthcare delivery. The Senate has not even held a hearing on this appointment, much less a vote. Thus, this action is extremely premature. “I feel this recess appointment is very inappropriate and seems to be forcing the same type of quick action on healthcare on the policy side as the Democrats did ramming through a vote on the legislative side.” ###
07.01.2010	Washington, DC – In a letter sent today to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, Congressmen Jerry Costello (D-IL), Phil Hare (D-IL) and John Shimkus (R-IL) expressed extreme concern and alarm about the potential exposure of their veteran constituents to HIV, Hepatitis B and C and other blood-borne diseases from dental care received at the John Cochran VA Medical Center in St. Louis. The VA sent out letters earlier this week to 1,812 veterans who may have been exposed, following an inspection by the National Infectious Diseases Program Office (IDPO) that found the facility was not following standard operating procedures for sterilization, disinfection and cleaning of medical equipment. In the letter, Costello, Hare and Shimkus called on Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki to conduct an immediate investigation of the actions that led to this critical safety lapse and to take steps to ensure patient safety standards are upheld at all VA facilities, including dealing with infected patients. They also urged Secretary Shinseki to provide them with the IDPO inspection report, to strengthen VA oversight of sterilization practices, and to enhance regulations to protect veterans from infection and reduce the chance of such a lapse happening in the future. “The VA has to demonstrate that it can follow routine procedures to protect the health of veterans,” said Costello. “Coming after the problems at the Marion VAMC, this revelation is unacceptable and needs to be addressed immediately.” “Our veterans risked their lives for our freedoms,” Hare said. “We owe them more than our thanks. They deserve the best care money can buy. Those who serve this nation understand that they may be exposed to danger, but not at the local VA clinic charged with their care. This horrendous and unacceptable report must be addressed immediately and those who allowed the situation to reach this level should be held accountable.” “It is extremely disappointing that VA procedures were not followed for over a year before they were discovered. This is a continuing sign that the VA healthcare system has serious lapses that need to be addressed. I hope that these precautionary tests are just that, and no veteran has been infected,” stated Shimkus. ### NOTE: A copy of the letter is attached.
06.30.2010	Washington, DC - Citing the expansion of government regulation and increased cost to taxpayers and consumers, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against the Restoring American Financial Stability Act (HR 4173). “This is another 2,300 page piece of legislation passed by the Democratic majority that increases the role of government in our economy in an attempt to fix problems with regulation of the financial services sector,” Shimkus noted. “We can point to bad decisions by past regulators, some fraud in the mortgage industry, and the collapse of real estate prices as a few of the strongest forces causing problems in the financial sector. Yet, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac escape any changes in this financial reform legislation. “We aren’t really improving the regulatory system; we are simply giving the regulators more power over bailouts. A new Financial Stability Oversight Council will have the power to break up financial firms. No Presidential say; no Congressional say. “We are handing over to bureaucrats the power that Congress and the President should retain,” Shimkus added. “There are many other flaws in this legislation, and I voted no.” The legislation is a House-Senate Conference compromise. This Conference Report passed the House June 30 and awaits action by the Senate after the July 4 holiday. ###
06.29.2010	Washington, DC - The Congressional Baseball Game for Charity will be held on Tuesday evening, June 29, and Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) will be wearing a University of Illinois Springfield Prairie Stars uniform in his 14th appearance. The game will be played in Nationals Park, home of Major League Baseball’s Washington Nationals. The baseball game began in 1909 and with some exceptions has been held each year, continuously since 1962 under the sponsorship of Roll Call. The game pits Republicans versus Democrats. The Republicans lead the overall series 38-33-1. The Washington Literacy Council and the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Washington are the two beneficiaries of the event. Rachel Robinson, widow of Hall of Famer Jackie Robinson, will throw out the game’s ceremonial first pitch. The UIS Prairie Stars will not actually begin play until their inaugural season opens in the spring of 2011. Shimkus is tapped to be the Republicans’ starting pitcher. “I really enjoy the Congressional Baseball Game, as it is great for camaraderie among our team, as a stress reliever, and as a fundraiser for these two worthwhile charities. I have worn a different team uniform every year, and I am pleased to be supporting the University of Illinois Springfield this year.” ### NOTE: The final score and any photos will be posted on the Congressman’s Twitter and Facebook pages.
06.24.2010	Washington, DC - Calling the bill an unconstitutional response to an unconstitutional law voided by the U.S. Supreme Court, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against the misleadingly titled DISCLOSE Act campaign reform legislation, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives Thursday by a 219-206 margin and now heads to the Senate. “The Democratic leadership cleverly decided to label this Democracy is Strengthened by Casting Light on Spending in Elections, but the only thing it discloses is their cynical attempt to stifle freedom of speech – except for those who agree with them,” Shimkus said. Since the Supreme Court ruled in January against laws limiting campaign spending in the final months of a campaign by corporations, labor unions and advocacy groups, Democrats have blasted the Supreme Court – with even President Obama denouncing the ruling before the justices in his State of the Union speech – and vowed to pass new legislation in response. “After government lawyers failed to convince the Supreme Court that the government should have the right to restrict political speech, Democrats’ top political operatives launched a stealth legislative initiative to create new obstacles designed to silence critics before the next election,” Shimkus said. “Just as we’ve seen with health care and bailouts, this legislation has been rushed forward without concern for the Constitution or existing law. Disclosure is fundamentally important, but this bill is not really about increasing transparency. It specifically bans speech from some, primarily corporations, while placing little to no restrictions or new requirements on others, such as Democrat-leaning labor unions. I cannot support such blatantly unfair legislation.” ###
06.18.2010	Collinsville, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement on the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Shimkus is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which held three hearings in Washington, DC, this week. The Congressman sits on two of those three subcommittees. “Over two months ago a BP oil platform under construction in the Gulf of Mexico exploded and began leaking oil and methane. I am deeply sorry for the loss of life that occurred in that explosion. “As my mother always told us when we were in stores, if you break it, you buy it. BP broke it, and they now own the cost to stop the spill, remediate the environment, and provide compensation to justified claims. “Whether that totals $10 billion, $20 billion or $30 billion it doesn’t matter. BP is on the hook. The sooner the leak is capped the better. Yet the total cleanup could take years. “As I said on St. Louis radio yesterday (Thursday) morning, I support the President’s $20 billion trust fund and the third party oversight he negotiated.” ###
05.21.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, is requesting that Subcommittee Chairman Frank Pallone, Jr. hold a hearing on the effects of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) on small businesses. Shimkus made his request in a letter sent Thursday.“Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius and Small Business Administration Administrator Karen Mills have both touted the provisions favorable to small businesses in the health care law,” Shimkus said. “But, the Congressional Budget Office says only 12 percent of small businesses would realize any benefit at all.“You can say anything you want, but we should really find out the facts about whether or not the health care law will help small businesses get insurance for their employees.“In addition, the health care law raises the Medicare payroll tax, puts a new Medicare tax on non-payroll income, taxes health insurers, and requires lots of new paperwork to be filed with the IRS. I don’t see how any of that helps a small business,” Shimkus noted.###NOTE: A pdf of the letter can be found here.
05.19.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce that the Honorable Stephanie Tubbs Jones College Fire Prevention Act (HR 2136) passed the U.S. House on a voice vote May 19. “This bill seeks to improve campus safety, particularly in student housing,” Shimkus explained. “The Secretary of Education would be allowed to make grants through a competitive process for the installation of sprinkler systems or other fire suppression technology. “Institutions of higher education, as well as fraternities and sororities, would be eligible to apply.” The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
05.07.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is opposed to a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) proposal that would have the government regulating broadband Internet services. The FCC is suggesting that broadband services be regulated, like a traditional telephone company. “This is another example of this Administration controlling the private sector by increasing regulation and using government to impose their will on businesses,” Shimkus said. “We have seen this with regard to energy, health care, and now the Internet. This time without Congress even giving the go ahead. “The Internet has seen an explosion of services and companies providing new and innovative websites and technological advances,” he added. “Why we now need to put government in the middle is beyond me. “So called network neutrality will only raise costs for everyone online,” Shimkus lamented. Shimkus sits on the House Energy and Commerce Committee which has oversight over the FCC. ###
05.07.2010	Mt. Vernon, Illinois - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) was presented the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Spirit of Enterprise Award at an event hosted by the Jefferson County Chamber of Commerce in Mt. Vernon Friday. The Spirit of Enterprise Award is given to Members of Congress who vote at least 70 percent of the time on key votes selected by the U.S. Chamber. Fifteen House votes in 2009 were considered in order to receive this year’s award. “I appreciate the business community – both locally and in Washington – taking an active role in the government process,” Shimkus commented. “Voting against government-run health care and against an energy sector power grab were just two of the votes they considered. But, those were both devastating to business.” U.S. Chamber President and CEO Tom Donohue said, “The Chamber applauds Congressman Shimkus for supporting the private sector and job growth through these difficult times. He has demonstrated great courage, and we commend him.” Shimkus has a cumulative rating over 13 years of 89 percent with the Chamber. ### NOTE: A photo from the Washington presentation of the award is available online at www.uschamber.com/press/photos/soe; search Shimkus. Shown presenting Shimkus the award is Rolf Lundberg, U.S. Chamber Senior Vice President for Congressional and Public Affairs.
05.06.2010	Washington, DC - Congressmen John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) and Jerry Costello (D, Illinois-12) announced their support of a U.S. International Trade Commission ruling issued earlier this week. The ruling was against Chinese companies who sold oil-drilling pipe in the United States at unfair prices. “This ruling allows the Commerce Department to institute anti-dumping duties on the Chinese pipe,” Shimkus stated. “American workers can compete in fair circumstances; unfortunately that’s not always the case.” “We need to be aggressive in protecting domestic manufacturers from unfair trade practices,” said Costello. “The U.S. steel industry has demonstrated a great ability to innovate and compete when there is an even playing field, and the Commission’s decision will help ensure that opportunity.” U.S. Steel was among the U.S. manufacturers who sought this investigation. Their plants in Ohio, Alabama, and Texas were affected. Costello and Shimkus are both members of the Congressional Steel Caucus. They joined a letter sent in December by 45 Members of Congress in support of the U.S. industry and workers. ###
04.28.2010	Washington, DC - A report issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services estimates the financial effects of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will increase the nation’s health care costs, not bring them down as promised by the President and Democratic majority. The report estimates the total net cost over the first ten years of the law to be $251.3 billion. “This is definitely not a savings or a bending of the curve downward,” Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) noted. “The premise that the Democrats’ version of health care reform would reduce the deficit and lower costs was questioned by many of us before the vote, but now the President’s own agency says costs will go up,” stated Shimkus. In addition, the report warned against the $575.1 billion in cuts to Medicare stating they may be unrealistic and unsustainable, driving about 15 percent of hospitals into the red and jeopardizing access to care for seniors. “Who honestly believes Congress will cut Medicare payments to providers by that much?” Shimkus asked. “Of further concern, people in the new federal system might not be able to get health care,” Shimkus explained. “Another problem will be the fact that, as the report also states, small businesses and those with low wage employees may drop health coverage they currently provide to their employees.” The report estimates 14 million workers will fall into this category. And to make your trip to the pharmacy just as fun as finding a doctor who participates in the new federal system, the report states: “We anticipate that these fees (on the pharmaceutical companies) and the excise tax (on medical devices sales) would generally be passed through to health consumers in the form of higher drug and device prices and higher insurance premiums…” “I opposed this law due to its scheming and unrealistic cost estimates and unsustainable cuts. This will ultimately drive higher costs onto both consumers and onto the State of Illinois to the tune of at least $2 billion in forced Medicaid expenses in the first five years alone,” Shimkus said. “There are a few good things in this law, but on the whole it is bad. I hope that in the future we can reform the points that are worth keeping and repeal all the rest.” ###
04.15.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman Joe Barton (R, Texas-6), ranking member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, has announced that Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) will become the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Health. This appointment comes after Congressman Nathan Deal (R, Georgia-9), who was ranking member of the subcommittee, resigned last month to run for Governor of Georgia. “I am honored that my committee leadership and fellow Republicans have given me this opportunity,” Shimkus said. “This subcommittee will be very active now and into the future, particularly as the implementation of nationalized health care moves forward. “I also look forward to working with Congressman Pallone, who is the subcommittee chairman,” he added. Barton noted, “Mr. Shimkus has been a vocal participant in the health care debate this past year and is a strong leader on our committee. He led a bipartisan effort to pass food safety legislation last year, and I know that he will do a great job as the top Republican on this subcommittee.” With Deal’s departure, Shimkus becomes the sixth most senior Republican on the Energy and Commerce Committee. Shimkus had served as the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations during part of the 110th Congress. He gave up that seat in the 111th Congress in order to return to the Subcommittee on Health. He also serves on the Subcommittee on Energy and the Environment and the Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet. The Subcommittee on Health has jurisdiction over: Public health and quarantine; Hospital construction; Biomedical programs, including NIH research and bio-defense; Medicaid; Medicare; Health insurance; Food and drugs; and Drug abuse. ###
04.13.2010	Washington - The six co-chairs of the Congressional Coal Caucus today released the following statement regarding the Upper Big Branch mine explosion in Montcoal, West Virginia: "We are deeply saddened by the recent loss of 29 brave Americans in the Montcoal mine explosion. As coal-state Representatives, we understand the brave service these men undertook and our hearts go out to their loved ones in this time of need. "Our caucus was formed to provide a forum in Congress to advocate for all coal states and the issues they face, including mine safety. As we move ahead, our caucus will continue to work towards ensuring that miners are always afforded the utmost safety.” ###
03.12.2010	Washington, D.C. – The bi-partisan, bi-cameral Congressional E-911 Caucus, co-chaired by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL), Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MI), and Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), is introducing legislation to upgrade America’s 9-1-1 call center technology nationwide. The Next Generation 9-1-1 Preservation Act of 2010 reauthorizes key grants and programs to ensure continued funding for the nation’s 6,000 9-1-1 centers and programs. The Senate will introduce the measure on Monday, while the House introduced their version today. “This bill is about public safety at its most basic level. Our 9-1-1 call centers are the first point of contact for Americans in an emergency situation,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We need to make certain they have all the tools necessary to stay safe and get help when they need it.” The 9-1-1 call centers receive more than 650,000 distress calls from across the nation every day and are primarily funded through state taxes on phone bills. The Next Generation 9-1-1 Preservation Act reauthorizes a five year federal grant program to support state 9-1-1 services and improve technology. It also introduces improvements to the national E911 Implementation Coordination Office, which helps states to upgrade technology and coordinate services between call centers. “This legislation is about more than reauthorizing grant programs, it’s about creating and maintaining a coordinated approach to 9-1-1 response technology on a nationwide level,” Rep. Shimkus said. “The Next Generation 9-1-1 technology needs to be fostered and advanced by experts on a national level with the resources to target specific public safety needs.” “Every day, 9-1-1 call centers provide emergency and often life saving services to Americans,” said Klobuchar. “We need to make sure the technology of our 9-1-1 call centers is updated so that emergency personnel have the tools they need to keep people safe and provide assistance to those in need.” “This reauthorization is a real step forward in getting our rescue workers the tools they need,” Senator Burr said. “Technology has come a long way since the 9-1-1 system was first established, and we must continue to modernize our call centers to keep up with these changes. This legislation will ensure necessary upgrades for the emergency response infrastructure, and will ensure that E9-1-1 fees are used for their intended purposes.” According to the Federal Communications Commission, some states have a history of diverting their 9-1-1 funds to support other programs. The Next Generation 9-1-1 Preservation Act prevents states that divert funds from receiving the grants in the legislation. “This is the carrot and stick approach. This bill makes certain that 9-1-1 funds actually go toward funding 9-1-1- call centers,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We need to make certain that the funds are used for the purpose that they are intended if we want to maintain our emergency call centers.” ###
03.11.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is seeking entries for the 2010 Congressional Art Competition. This is an annual contest held nationwide in each Congressional district. "This is a unique competition, as the entries are limited by geography and the winner gets national exposure," Shimkus explained. “I encourage all student artists to submit their work.” The contest is open to high school students who reside in the 19th District or in a school district that is in the 19th District. The winning entry from Shimkus' district is displayed with other winners from around the country in the underground tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building and the U.S. Capitol. In addition, the winner will be flown courtesy of Southwest Airlines to Washington for a special ceremony. The deadline to submit entries is Friday, April 30. Information has been sent to high schools and is also available from any of Shimkus' offices. To have an information packet sent directly to you, call Matt at 217-492-5090, or access the forms online at shimkus.house.gov under Constituent Services. "The entries must be original artwork that meets the guidelines of the contest," Shimkus said. "We have had collages, oil paintings, pencil drawings, photographs, and other types of art entered over the years." ###
02.24.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) spoke out against the sale of KFUO-FM on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this evening. Congressman William “Lacy” Clay, Jr. (D, Missouri-1) also spoke on the floor against the proposed sale. “As a member of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod, this is not a position that I take lightly, but I truly believe that the sale of our area’s lone classical music station does the church and the community wrong,” Shimkus said. “My wife is a classical musician, and as residents of the St. Louis metropolitan area, we take advantage of the fine arts that KFUO-FM supports. That cooperative link will hurt many regional institutions.” Shimkus joined many prominent Missouri Synod Lutherans in signing a petition in mid-2009 to the Synod’s Board of Directors opposing the sale. “After being contacted by many constituents and fellow Lutherans, I thought a public statement was appropriate at this time,” he noted. Shimkus’ comments may be heard online at www.youtube.com/repshimkus. ###
02.04.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against raising the United States debt limit by another $1.9 trillion to a record statutory limit of $14.294 trillion. However, the Democrat-majority House passed the measure 217-212, so the measure will be sent to the President for his signature. "Our current debt is already over $40,000 for every person in the U.S.," Shimkus noted. "This is largest one-time increase in our debt and is the third debt limit increase in just one year. "Since the Democrats took control of Congress in 2007, the debt limit has been raised five times - a 42.5 percent increase in just three years. The bill passed both the House and Senate without a single Republican vote," he added. In addition to this increase, the budget released on Monday by President Obama calls for the debt to double to $26 trillion over the next decade. "I believe it is time that we finally deal with our wayward spending in Washington," Shimkus said. "We can't keep spending like this under the guise of 'stimulus' or 'job creation' or 'tax cuts,' which aren't really cuts but keeping tax rates at the same level they are now. "Deficits and debt do not encourage investment and job creation. Controlling our out-of-control spending will do more to help our economy than the action we took today." ###
02.03.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Illinois Congressmen Peter Roskam and John Shimkus released the following joint statement calling on Sen. Dick Durbin and Illinois Treasurer Alexi Giannoulias to join the bipartisan wave of opposition to the controversial plan to move Guantanamo to Illinois: “We urge both Sen. Durbin and Treasurer Giannoulias to stand on the side of the people of Illinois and finally oppose moving Guantanamo Bay Prison to Illinois. Given the recent attempted Christmas Day terrorist attack on another Midwestern state, the recent decision to relocate Khalid Sheikh Mohammad’s trial from New York, and the growing bipartisan wave of opposition to this misguided effort, the way forward is clear. Creating Guantanamo Illinois will only further threaten our security, regionally and nationally, and public opposition to the plan has been widespread and bipartisan. When even the White House recognizes creating Guantanamo Illinois is a mistake that must now be reconsidered, we urge Sen. Durbin and Treasurer Giannoulias recognize good judgment, recant their support and join the bipartisan opposition to this controversial plan.” Note: White House Gave Treasurer Giannoulias NSC Briefing on Transfer: On November 20, 2009, Illinois state Treasurer Giannoulias disclosed to a Chicago area radio station that he had received a briefing from the Obama Administration’s National Security Council on the potential move to Illinois, prior to Republican members of Congress receiving the same briefing. Listen to that disclosure here. White House Reconsidering Transfer According to Majority Leader Hoyer (D-Md): “I think the administration realizes that this is a difficult issue. And I think that they are assessing where they are and where they think we ought to be, and I think that’s appropriate and I look forward to discussing it with them.” (Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md), February 2nd) Democrat Rep. Melissa Bean (IL-08) opposes the move: “I remain opposed to transferring Guantanamo detainees to Illinois, or anywhere in the U.S., while awaiting more detailed information on what’s being proposed, including potential security threats and plans for resolving detainees’ final status. As of yet, I have seen neither." (Rep. Melissa Bean, D-IL, November 18th) Democrat Rep. Debbie Halvorson (IL-11) opposes the move: “I am not yet convinced such a transfer would be in the best interests of our national security. I would need to see a plan that guarantees the safety of Americans and that this transfer is in the best interests of the local community, state, and country before I could support this proposal.” (Rep. Debbie Halvorson, D-IL, November 19th) ###
01.28.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has issued the following statement following President Barack Obama's State of the Union speech Wednesday night: "It is about time that the President called for some spending restraint. I support a limited freeze but wish it would go further with strict budget caps that would force us to make the tough decisions. It's unfortunate that we have to consider a budget commission to do the job the voters sent us here to do. But any help in controlling mandatory and discretionary spending is a step in the right direction. "The best thing we can do for our nation is to get everyone back to work. It is our businesses that employ our citizens, and we need to stop scaring them with proposals to nationalize healthcare, take over the energy infrastructure, raise taxes, and expand burdensome government regulations. "Islamic radicals continue to threaten the free world. I support the President's surge in Afghanistan but oppose the closing of Guantanamo and trying enemy combatants in civilian courts. "Although I may not agree with the President on all his proposals, I want to work with him on bipartisan solutions to all of the problems we are facing as a country." ###
01.13.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has co-signed a letter with 112 of his colleagues, both Republicans and Democrats, to President Obama asking that Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) contingency funds be released. The letter to President Obama states: "The recently-passed Consolidated Appropriations Act includes $5.1 billion for LIHEAP - the highest funding level in the history of the program - of which more than $590 million is dedicated to LIHEAP contingency funding. We urge you to release these resources as soon as possible, and we ask that you dedicate sufficient funds for this program in your fiscal year 2011 budget request." The letter highlights how current unemployment rates and other economic data allow for the contingency funds to be used under the law. The letter concludes: "For many years LIHEAP has been a vital safety net for low-income families and seniors. In these tough economic times, the program is more important than ever. As such, we respectfully request that you release LIHEAP funding to meet the immediate emergency needs, and we urge you to maintain the federal commitment to low-income energy assistance." The Department of Health and Human Service announced Tuesday that it was releasing $1.2 billion as the second regular block grant of LIHEAP funds to the states. Illinois is set to receive $56,367,691. The contingency funds would be in addition to this grant. "I am certain that the agencies administering LIHEAP funds locally have had requests for assistance from more people than ever this winter. The stalled economy and recent cold temperatures will only make future heating bills more difficult for some to pay," Shimkus said. ###
01.11.2010	Washington, DC - Congressmen John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) and Phil Hare (D, Illinois-17) are pleased to announce a U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development grant to the City of Litchfield. The $21,500 Community Facility Grant will be used to construct two new emergency warning storm sirens. “When it comes to a natural disaster or weather related emergency, a clear and early warning signal is key to keeping families safe,” Hare said. “These sirens will help the people of Litchfield better prepare for and respond to inclement weather. I was proud to work with Congressman Shimkus to secure this important investment." “Approximately 500 area residents will benefit from these new sirens," Shimkus noted. "We all know that storm warnings are common, and if injuries can be prevented or even lives saved, this is well worth the expense." The sirens will be used to provide notification in North and South Litchfield Townships. A $17,696 city contribution will be combined with the federal grant to pay for the sirens. Rural Development's mission is "to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for all rural Americans." They assist rural communities through their Utilities Programs, Housing Programs, Business Programs, and Community Development Programs. ###
01.07.2010	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development awards to two agencies in the 19th District. These grants are through the Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance program. The Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance program provides funding for services such as transitional housing, permanent housing, and other supportive services. These are competitive grants awarded annually. Receiving grants were: B.C.M.W. Community Services (Stepping Stones Transitional Housing Project) - $19,597 C.E.F.S. Economic Opportunity Corporation (supportive services only) - $199,675 C.E.F.S. (transitional housing project) - $133,350 "These programs help many people right in our own communities who find themselves in need for various reasons," Shimkus explained. "The current economic crunch has made the need for these temporary housing services even greater. "Both of these agencies provide a variety of services in multi-county regions. I have visited with them both and know the good work that they do," he added. B.C.M.W. serves Bond, Clinton, Marion, and Washington counties. C.E.F.S. serves Christian, Clay, Effingham, Fayette, Montgomery, Moultrie, and Shelby counties. ###
12.17.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce that local projects have received federal funding in an appropriations bill that passed the House Thursday. That bill will be voted on by the Senate this weekend, and the President has indicated he will sign it into law. "These are earmarks that I specifically asked for within the federal appropriations process," Shimkus explained. "And while I did not vote for passage of this bill, these projects would not be getting these funds had I not made the initial request." "I have expressed my discontent with how much money is being spent in Washington, and my votes reflect that position. However, I am elected to represent the people of the 19th District, and it is my job to work to get our fair share of funding," Shimkus noted. Funded in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, Fiscal Year 2010 (HR 3288) were the following projects: $3 million - Relocate the entrance road for the Air National Guard Base at Abraham Lincoln Capital Airport in Springfield (Military Construction; joint request with Congressmen Aaron Schock and Phil Hare) $250,000 - Christian County Sheriff, Interoperable Communications Upgrades (Commerce Science and Justice) $110,000 - Fairfield Police Department, Emergency Communications and Equipment Upgrades (CSJ) $100,000 - Wayne County Sheriff, Equipment and Supplies (CSJ) $100,000 - Southern View Police Department, Training and Equipment (CSJ) $10,000 - Findlay Police Department, Equipment (CSJ) $200,000 - Hamilton Memorial Hospital, Electronic Medical Records Equipment (Labor, HHS and Education) $350,000 - Lincoln Land Community College, Hire Education Program for pre-apprenticeship program (Labor, HHS & Ed; joint request with Congressman Aaron Schock) $500,000 - Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, High Tech Simulation Lab for Advance Practice Nursing Students (Labor, HHS & Ed; joint request with Senator Richard Durbin) $100,000 - Hope Institute for Children and Families, Services to the Developmentally Disabled (Labor, HHS & Ed) $400,000 - Edwards County, Bone Gap Road (Transportation and HUD) $400,000 - City of Harrisburg, Missouri Street Hospital Access (Transportation and HUD) All Congressional earmark requests must be posted online. Congressman Shimkus' requests, some of which did not receive funding or were funded below the full requested level, can be viewed at www.shimkus.house.gov; click on "Transparency" under the Legislative tab; then click on "FY 2010 Appropriations Requests." ###
12.09.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is expressing concern regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's finding issued Monday that greenhouse gases "endanger both the public health and public welfare." "Greenhouse gases are not toxic - every time we exhale we emit carbon dioxide; does EPA propose we stop breathing," Shimkus questioned. "I have huge concerns with the direction this Administration is headed on this issue. "Everyone will feel the effect in higher costs of energy - liquid fuels, electricity, and home heating. Agriculture will likely be impacted; and higher grain prices, which are touted as a plus for farmers, just means we all pay more for food. "This is an illogical circle," Shimkus noted. "There will be a cost to regulating greenhouse gases." Shimkus also joined 23 colleagues in writing to President Obama. The letter (attached) expresses "grave concerns with reports that your Administration may commit the government of the United States to standards agreed upon at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference" in Copenhagen. The letter notes, "It is clear that a binding plan agreed to in Copenhagen would cost jobs in the United States. Congress has the sole responsibility to approve such a program." The letter urges the President to "not commit our government to an emissions reduction protocol at Copenhagen." "At a time of ten percent unemployment, it is outrageous that the government would be taking steps to make our economy get even worse," Shimkus added. ###
12.09.2009	Washington, DC - Congressmen John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) and Jerry Costello (D, Illinois-12) were among 45 Members of Congress signing a letter to the Chairman of the U.S. International Trade Commission last week. The letter (attached) related to a Commission hearing important to the steel industry on "Oil Country Tubular Goods (OCTG) from China." The letter states, "The U.S. OCTG industry is in a severe crisis. Due to a staggering import surge from China...OCTG inventories rose to unprecedented levels. As a result, demand for domestic OCTG has largely disappeared." Antidumping cases were filed with the Commission on April 8, 2009, and the letter notes, "...a preliminary finding that Chinese imports threaten material injury to the U.S. industry and its workers." “Chinese dumping of steel products in the U.S. is not a new problem,” said Costello, a member of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “We have successfully fought these actions in the past and we will continue to defend our workers and demand fair trade.” Shimkus said, "We must be adamant in upholding our trade laws. I am all for trade, as many jobs rely on exports, but it must be fair. In this case, the Chinese steel pipe imports have tripled and threaten our domestic industry." The letter summarizes, "American workers and producers need and deserve a fair chance to compete in their own market. Now more than ever, it is crucial that this Commission fully and effectively enforce our free trade laws, and ensure that foreign producers refusing to follow global trading rules are not permitted to further injure American workers, companies and communities." ###
12.03.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) joined unanimous Republican opposition to the Democrats' estate tax legislation (HR 4154) Thursday. The bill, however, did pass 225-200 and now moves to the Senate. "This was a bad bill," Shimkus said. "The tax rate in this bill was set at 45 percent for estates over $3.5 million, while the Senate is working on a bipartisan bill that has both a lower rate and a higher exemption. "I wish we could have worked on a bipartisan basis in the House," he lamented. "The only bipartisan vote in the House was the no vote. "Republican members of the Agriculture Committee urged a no vote, and many business groups opposed this bill as well," Shimkus explained. "I feel we can do much better." ###
12.01.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has been invited to attend President Obama's speech at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York, tonight. The President is scheduled to outline his plans for troop deployments to Afghanistan. The invitation was extended to Shimkus as he is a member of the Academy's Board of Advisors. "I am looking forward to hearing the specifics of the President's decision," Shimkus said. "The number of troops there now is obviously insufficient to maintain order and peace. "I have many questions, of which some will be answered tonight. I also read a comment this morning from a pastor that reminded me that Presidents, as our Commanders in Chief, make life and death decisions and that we should pray this is the right decision," Shimkus added. ###
12.01.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has joined 251 of his House colleagues and 58 Senators in submitting an Amici Curiae brief to the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of McDonald v. Chicago. In this case, Mr. McDonald has challenged the City of Chicago, Illinois', handgun ban. In its 2008 ruling in Heller v. District of Columbia, the Supreme Court acknowledged the individual's right to keep and bear arms as stated in the Second Amendment. Because the District of Columbia is not a state, the ruling did not overturn handgun laws outside of D.C. "Our duty as Members of Congress is not only to write laws but also to protect the rights of our constituents," Shimkus said. "I am glad to join in this brief to the Supreme Court and hope that when they decide the case they will extend Heller to all citizens." The Court has given till December 30 for submission of briefs and will hear oral arguments in 2010. The Congressional brief makes two major arguments. First, "The Right To Keep And Bear Arms Is Uniquely Suited To Incorporation Through The Fourteenth Amendment," and second, "Congress Has A Strong Interest In Preserving The Right To Keep And Bear Arms That Would Be Undermined If The Second Amendment Does Not Apply To The States." ###
11.25.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has joined his Illinois Congressional colleagues in honoring the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team of the Illinois Army National Guard for their recent service in Afghanistan. A resolution (H. Res. 936) was introduced on November 19 that reads: "Honoring the citizen-soldiers of the Army National Guard of the State of Illinois, including the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team of the Illinois Army National Guard, which recently returned from deployment to Afghanistan. "Whereas the members of the Army National Guard of the State of Illinois reside throughout the State and come from various communities, backgrounds, and professions; "Whereas units and members of the Illinois National Guard have been deployed, and are continuously being deployed, in support of United States military operations at home and overseas in Iraq, Afghanistan, and dozens of other countries; "Whereas one such unit, the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team of the Illinois Army National Guard, is composed of approximately 3,000 citizen-soldiers from throughout the State of Illinois; "Whereas during the deployment of the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team in Afghanistan, the primary mission of the brigade was to train and mentor members of the Afghan National Army and Afghan National Police; "Whereas 18 members of the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team were killed during the deployment and an additional 90 soldiers were wounded; "Whereas members of the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team were awarded more than 4,600 awards or decorations as a result of their service, including 66 Purple Hearts and 8 Bronze Stars for Valor; and "Whereas the 33rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team returned to the United States upon completion of the deployment in support of military operations in Afghanistan: Now therefore, be it "Resolved, That the House of Representatives - "(1) expresses its gratitude to the members of the Army National Guard of the State of Illinois and their families for their service and sacrifice on behalf of the United States; "(2) commends the members of the 33rd Brigade Combat Team of the Illinois Army National Guard members, for their exemplary service." Twenty-seven units across the state form the 33rd Brigade Combat Team, including Company B, 2-130th Infantry in Effingham; Company F, 634th Brigade Support Battalion in Mt. Vernon; Company D, 2-130th Infantry in Salem; and nearby units in Litchfield, Marion, Mattoon, Springfield, and West Frankfort. Among the 18 soldiers killed in action was Staff Sgt. Joshua A. Melton, 26, of Carlyle. Shimkus also attended a welcome home ceremony in Altamont earlier this year for some members of the 33rd Brigade Combat Team. ###
11.18.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for House passage of the Fire Grants Reauthorization Act of 2009 (HR 3791). The legislation reauthorizes the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) programs through fiscal year 2014. The bill passed the House and now goes to the Senate. The new authorization would set a minimum of 25 percent of AFG funds for career, volunteer, and combination fire departments. All departments currently compete for funding regardless of the type of department. Grant maximums are also increased depending on the size of the department. Additionally, volunteer non-fire service emergency medical service organizations will now be eligible for grants. And training funds may now be used for certifying fire and building inspectors. With regard to SAFER funds, the local match is reduced to 20 percent; however, the grant period is also reduced to three years. The cap on the maximum grant amount would be removed in this new authorization. "I have been a supporter of the fire grant program since it was first passed into law in 2001 and am pleased that we are continuing to support our first responders through this legislation," Shimkus said. "Fire departments throughout my district have been successful in this competitive grant program." The AFG and SAFER grant programs are administered through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Fire departments seeking advice or in need of assistance with an AFG or SAFER grant application can contact Shimkus' Springfield office at 217-492-5090. ###
11.18.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has introduced legislation that will modify the current one dollar biodiesel blender tax credit, which will currently end December 31. The new biodiesel tax credit would be a one dollar biodiesel production tax credit. "This legislation matches legislation that has been introduced in the Senate and will ensure the continued domestic production of biodiesel," Shimkus said. "This also makes the tax credit only available to domestic producers." The legislation (HR 4070) provides the tax credit for five years. In addition, small producers would be eligible for an additional ten cent tax credit per gallon. Manning Feraci, Vice President of Federal Affairs for the National Biodiesel Board, said in testimony before Congress, "It is safe to assume that if the biodiesel tax incentive lapses, biodiesel production in the U.S. will halt or at a minimum be severely curtailed, and the energy security, environmental, and job creation benefits that the nation realizes from biodiesel production will be lost." Shimkus added, "As a major alternative fuel, we need to continue supporting domestic production of biodiesel." Congressman Earl Pomeroy of North Dakota is the main sponsor. The Senate companion legislation (S 1589) was introduced by Senators Maria Cantwell of Washington and Chuck Grassley of Iowa. ###
11.07.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Peter Roskam released the following statement after the entire Illinois Republican delegation joined him in sending a letter to Barry Maram, Executive Director of the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services, inquiring about the impact that Speaker Pelosi’s health care bill, H.R. 3962, would have on the State of Illinois: “As the House prepares to vote on Speaker Pelosi’s $1.3 trillion dollar healthcare bill, we think it is vitally important to know how much this legislation will cost the constituents of Illinois. Medicaid is already the single largest expense for the State of Illinois, accounting for 40% of all state taxpayer dollars. In addition to creating a new government-run insurance plan, H.R. 3962 imposes unfunded mandates on states to pay for a massive expansion of Medicaid. Republicans are committed to meaningfully lowering costs and increasing access, but we believe Speaker Pelosi’s healthcare bill would make Illinois’ already treacherous fiscal challenges even worse.” ### November 7, 2009 Mr. Barry S. Maram Director Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services Prescott Bloom Building 201 South Grand Avenue East Springfield, Illinois 62763-0001 Dear Director Maram, Often overlooked in the healthcare reform debate is how the expansion of Medicaid would impact already strained state budgets. H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act as amended, mandates that states raise the Medicaid enrollment threshold to 150% of the federal poverty level. H.R. 3962 also raises the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) to 91% of this expansion cost by 2019. According to estimates by the National Conference of State Legislatures, raising enrollment eligibility to 133% of the federal poverty level and capping FMAP at 85% would create a cost to the State of Illinois of $2.578 billion dollars from 2014-2019. It is apparent that the additional expansion of eligibility to 150% of the poverty level will create an even greater burden on our state’s coffers than the original bill. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that state spending on Medicaid would increase by about $34 billion over the 2010–2019 period. According to a June report by Governor Quinn’s Tax Action Board, Medicaid covers over 2.45 million Illinoisans, or more than 19% of the population, and this year will cost $11.2 billion in state and federal funds. In fact, Medicaid accounts for over 40% of state general funds and is the largest single state expense. For these reasons, we are requesting an estimate from the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family Services of the projected obligations that passage of H.R. 3962 would have on the State of Illinois. We sincerely appreciate your timely attention to this matter. Sincerely, PETER ROSKAM MARK KIRK JOHN SHIMKUS AARON SCHOCK TIM JOHNSON DONALD MANZULLO JUDY BIGGERT
11.07.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against Speaker Pelosi's 2,000 page, $1 trillion government take-over of health care late Saturday, November 7. In his floor speech Shimkus surmised, "The goal of this legislation has been clear from the beginning. To pass a public option that will serve as a gateway to single payer, government-controlled health care." Shimkus has quoted Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky saying in the past that "a public option will put the private insurance industry out of business." He also has quoted Congressman Barney Frank who said in the past that "if we get a good public option, it could lead to single payer." "I cannot support a public option. While I know that our current health insurance system is not perfect, I do not want to put our entire health care system under government-control," Shimkus commented. "Once the government is the only option, it will inevitably have to ration care." As part of the debate, an amendment was allowed to be voted on that added a prohibition on federal funding of abortions to the bill. Shimkus supported this amendment that passed 240-194-1. He also voted for the Republican substitute that would have instituted health insurance reforms without a government take over of health care. That alternative, however, failed 176-258. On the final vote Shimkus voted no on Speaker Pelosi's health care take over. It did pass the House 220-215. "This doesn't mean all is lost," Shimkus noted. "The Senate must still work on their version of health care reform. And, if they pass something, then the differences between the two must be negotiated. I continue to believe that the Senate cannot pass a public option." ###
11.05.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for final passage of the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (HR 3548) on November 5. This version of the legislation had already passed the Senate and now goes to the President for his signature to become law. The legislation would extend unemployment benefits for 14 weeks or 20 weeks in states with unemployment rates above 8.5 percent. This would bring the total unemployment benefits in state with unemployment above 8.5 percent to a record total of 99 weeks. "While many of the policy decisions coming out of Washington are not conducive to job creation, we have to do what we can to assist those out of work in a very bad economic climate," Shimkus said. "I wish we were doing taking more positive actions than just helping the unemployed. "One proactive move in this bill is the extension of the homebuyer's tax credit," he noted. The current $8,000 maximum first time homebuyers tax credit will be extended through May 1, 2010. In addition current homeowners may be eligible for a $6,500 maximum homebuyer's tax credit if they have lived in the same principal residence for at least five of the last eight years. The income limits on these tax credits were also expanded. Also contained in this legislation is an expansion of the net operating loss carryback. In the stimulus the carryback was extended from two years to five years. In this legislation we remove the gross receipts limitations for taking advantage of this carryback. ###
11.04.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is making copies of the health care legislation that could be voted on later this week available for the public to read at his offices in Collinsville, Harrisburg, and Springfield. "Many people do not have Internet access at home or would be uncomfortable using a computer at a library, so we have a copy of the Democrats' bill and manager's amendment and the Republican bill available for the public to read in our offices," Shimkus said. "Unfortunately we cannot provide copies to take home, as the main Democrat bill is 1,990 pages long." All three bills can be accessed on the House Rules Committee website, https://rules.house.gov/. The Democrats' main bill is the Affordable Health Care for America Act (HR 3962); the Democrat manager's amendment does not have a bill number; and the Republican bill is considered an amendment in the nature of a substitute and also does not have a bill number. "The Democrats' leadership did promise a 72 hour window from when they filed their manager's amendment for Members of Congress and the public to read it," Shimkus noted. "They filed that amendment late Tuesday, so we will likely be voting on this Saturday." Shimkus is tweeting as he reads through the health care legislation. You can follow his messages online at www.twitter.com/repshimkus or www.facebook.com/repshimkus Shimkus' office locations and hours are as follows: Collinsville - 240 Regency Centre; 618-344-3065; Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Harrisburg - 110 East Locust Street, City Hall Room 12; 618-252-5271; Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. Springfield - 3130 Chatham Road, Suite C; 217-492-5090; Monday - Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. ###
10.29.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement after the House Democratic leadership unveiled its nearly-2000 page health care legislation in Washington Thursday: "I support health insurance reforms that would make health care more accessible, affordable, and portable. I cannot support a plan that raises taxes, hurts businesses, and cuts Medicare seniors rely on...all to put the federal government in control of everyone's health care. "Yes, we need health insurance reform. I support allowing for 100 percent tax deductibility of health insurance by individuals, just as corporations are allowed. I support allowing health insurance to be sold across state lines to let insurers offer people more choices at lower costs with competition driving prices down. We must also remove barriers so those with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage at an affordable rate and remove life-time caps on insurance policies. "These reforms will ensure that the sickest and most vulnerable will get the coverage they deserve for as long as they need it. I am proud to cosponsor legislation that would make many of these necessary changes, and I know we could pass a bipartisan health reform package around these principals. "The Democratic leadership, however, want government to control yet another sector of the economy -- this time its health care. We already own an automobile company and Wall Street banks. "And at a time with very high unemployment, the Democratic leadership proposes putting additional taxes on businesses -- in the form of penalties for not providing health insurance -- which many small businesses cannot afford. Will this put them out of business? And for those who currently enjoy insurance through their employer, they may find themselves losing that coverage as employers opt to put workers in a public plan, whether they want to change or not. "This bill will also place additional mandates on states to expand Medicaid regardless of a state's need or ability to pay for these expansions over time. This is particularly troubling for Illinois, which already struggles to meet its Medicaid obligations to our physicians and providers who care for the poor. "Aside from tax increases and cost concerns, I do not support the public option in this bill. This public option is a gateway to a government-run one payer system that will eventually ration care to contain costs and take health care decisions away from you and your doctors and put it into the hands of bureaucrats in Washington. "Make no mistake. The public option will eventually get them to a single payer government run health system. I cannot support their plan." Republican health care priorities and legislative alternatives are available for review online at www.healthcare.gop.gov. ###
10.19.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has been named to the United States Military Academy, West Point, New York, Board of Visitors. "As a graduate of West Point and strong supporter of the military, I am honored to be able to continue in a close relationship with my alma mater," Shimkus stated. "The Board of Visitors is not exactly like a university board of trustees, as we can only advise not set policy regarding the Academy." The Board of Visitors was established by federal law and according to its Charter "shall provide the President of the United States independent advice and recommendations on matters relating to the U.S. Military Academy, to include but not limited to morale and discipline, curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, fiscal affairs, and academic methods." The Board is comprised of not more than 15 people, including the chairperson of both the House and Senate Committees on Armed Services; three additional members of the Senate, two of which must be members of the Committee on Appropriations; four other members of the House, two of which must be members of the Committee on Appropriations; and six people appointed by the President. The current Board chairperson is Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas. The Board meets four times annually, and the meetings are open to the public. There is no compensation for serving on the Board. Shimkus' first meeting will be Friday, October 23, in West Point. ###
10.19.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for the fiscal year (FY) 2010 Department of Homeland Security Appropriations. The bill passed the House 307-114 and after Senate passage will be sent to the President. Homeland Security spending for FY 2010 totals $42.8776 billion including: $10.1 billion for Customs and Border Protection, which includes funding for 20,163 Border Patrol agents; $5.437 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE); $373.7 million for the United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indicator Technology (US-VIST), which tracks those who have stayed past their visas; $7.7 billion for Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which includes funds to meet the 100 percent air cargo screening mandate by August 2010; $8.8 billion for the Coast Guard; $903 million for FEMA Management and Administration; $397 million to combat Cyber Security; $4.17 billion in grants, including rail and transit security, port security, emergency management, fire grants, and other grant programs; $60 million for the REAL ID program to help states comply; and $1.5 billion for the United States Secret Service. "These are just samples of the money we spend through the Department of Homeland Security," Shimkus explained. "All of these areas impact residents of the 19th District. We use TSA at airports; we deal with FEMA and ICE; and we are quite successful in garnering fire grants for local departments in need of equipment and vehicles." In addition to funding the department, the legislation prohibits the release of detainees from Guantanamo Bay into the United States. The bill prohibits the release of photos of detainees, places them on the no-fly list, and prevents them from having any immigration benefits. ###
10.08.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has been invited to join President Obama, cabinet secretaries, and other Members of Congress to play basketball at the White House today. The only two Republicans invited are Shimkus and Congressman Jeff Flake of Arizona. "I find athletics to be a great stress reliever. Obviously, this must also be true for the President," Shimkus noted. "I am grateful for the invitation. I look forward to a competitive game and hope I don't embarrass myself on the court." Shimkus is a regular basketball player in the House Members gym, where bipartisan pick-up games are not unusual. He also recently played in a charity basketball game in Washington, DC, with many of those players invited today. Invitees include Education Secretary Arne Duncan, Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, and Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner. Other Members invited include Mike Arcuri of New York, John Boccieri of Ohio, Brad Ellsworth of Indiana, Baron Hill of Indiana, Jay Inslee of Washington, Frank Kratovil of Maryland, Rick Larsen of Washington, Patrick Murphy of Pennsylvania, and Heath Shuler of North Carolina. ###
10.02.2009	Washington, DC - Over the past several months Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has been recognized by three distinct groups for his votes in Congress. The U. S. Chamber of Commerce presented Shimkus with the Spirit of Enterprise award for maintaining at least a 70 percent voting record in support of the Chamber's "key votes." Shimkus voted with the Chamber 88 percent on the 18 votes scored in 2008 and has a lifetime 90 percent rating. Thomas Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber, said, "The Sprit of Enterprise award identifies those lawmakers that truly stepped up to the plate and demonstrated real leadership in making this country a place where businesses can continue to grow and create jobs." "I am proud of my pro-business record in Congress," Shimkus commented. "We must encourage employers in order for them to have employees." The National Association of Community Health Centers presented Shimkus with its 2009 Distinguished Community Health Superhero award. Community health centers receive that distinction for federal health care reimbursement, as they serve limited income individuals. "When I first took office, not one community health center existing in my district," Shimkus explained. "Now we have many that serve the health care needs in their communities." Finally, FRC Action named Shimkus a "True Blue" Member of Congress for supporting pro-life and pro-family legislation. They cited votes prohibiting funding for human cloning, maintaining the Mexico City policy on international abortion funding, restricting funding to Planned Parenthood, among others. Tony Perkins, president of FRC Action, said, "Members of Congress who receive this award have shown themselves to be consistent defenders of faith, family, and freedom." ###
09.30.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) recognized the life and service of James H. Donnewald; by entering a statement into the permanent Congressional Record of the Unites States House of Representatives on September 25, 2009. Mr. Donnewald was a resident of the 19th District. The statement reads: "Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of a distinguished public servant, devoted husband and loving father. "James Donnewald, a man who spent his career serving the people of Illinois as a legislator and state treasurer, passed away September 18th, at the age of 84. "From an early age, Mr. Donnewald had a desire to serve his country. Before beginning his career as a lawmaker, he volunteered for military service in both World War II and the Korean War, but was honorably discharged due to a heart murmur. "After returning from the service, Mr. Donnewald attended St. Louis University and later Lincoln College of Law. In 1960, he was elected to the Illinois state House of Representatives, where he served two terms. After serving as a Representative, James Donnewald was elected to the state Senate in 1964. Throughout his distinguished tenure, he garnered the respect of his colleagues rising to the office of assistant Democratic leader and chairman of the Reapportionment Committee. "In 1982, Mr. Donnewald was elected to one term as Illinois State Treasurer. After his time in public office, he continued to serve our community through his law practice in Breese, IL. "I extend my heartfelt condolences to Mr. Donnewald's daughter Jill, his sons Craig and Eric, his sisters Irene and Juanita and his five grandchildren. He was a respected member of his community and will be deeply missed." This Congressional Record entry can be accessed online at https://thomas.loc.gov/r111/r111.html; September 25, 2009; "Extension of Remarks;" item number 31. ###
09.23.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to extend unemployment benefits in states with unemployment rates above 8.5 percent, which includes Illinois. The legislation (HR 3548) passed the House September 22 and now goes to the Senate for action. "This extension will give those still in search of a job another 13 weeks of federal unemployment benefits," Shimkus stated. "This would give some people as many as 92 weeks total - a record length of unemployment benefits. "I hope that our economy will turn the corner soon and allow those still unemployed the opportunity to return to the workplace." ###
09.15.2009	Washington, DC - In the wake of recent news accounts about potential criminal activity coupled with actual charges pending in several states, Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is joining the effort to end all federal funding for ACORN, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now. "On Monday the Senate voted to bar federal housing money from going to ACORN in the 2010 fiscal year, and last week the Census Bureau announced it was cutting off ACORN," Shimkus explained. "This is being precipitated by the firing of two ACORN employees in their Baltimore office after damning evidence of wrongdoing was seen in videotapes. In addition, charges are pending against ACORN in Pennsylvania and Nevada. "I have signed a letter with many of colleagues to President Obama asking him to end all federal funding for ACORN immediately. I am also joining as a cosponsor of legislation (the Defund ACORN Act) that would do the same," he added. "ACORN has shown itself to not be worthy of taxpayers' funds any longer, and we need to end this abuse and waste of money." The Defund ACORN Act is sponsored by House Republican Leader John Boehner who wrote to his colleagues, "It is evident that ACORN is incapable of using federal funds in a manner that is consistent with the law." ###
09.09.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce four recipients of funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The grant program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, part of the U. S. Department of Homeland Security. Receiving federal grants are the St. Peter Fire Protection District - $24,510, Aviston Fire Protection District - $37,426, Edgewood Bi-County Fire Protection District - $85,500, and City of McLeansboro Fire Department - $45,558. All four grants are through the Firefighter Operations and Safety Program. According to the AFG website, these grants are for "training, equipment, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), wellness and fitness, and modifications to fire stations and facilities." "I have seen past grants used to purchase new protective gear for the firefighters, breathing apparatus, emergency generators, and other basic equipment," Shimkus explained. "These four districts are to be commended for their successful efforts to obtain this competitive grant funding," Shimkus added. "My office can assist with fire grants or any other federal grant program application. Just contact my Springfield office at 217-492-5090." Fire departments serving less than 20,000 residents are required to provide a five percent non-federal match for these one year grants. Departments serving between 20,000 and 50,000 residents must provide a ten percent match, and larger departments must provide a 20 percent match. ###
07.31.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for the Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 (HR 2749) on Thursday. He and his staff had been directly involved in the negotiations that brought this legislation to the floor. "We have had numerous committee hearings on the issue of food safety, and we all remember the scares in recent years with spinach, tomatoes, peanut butter, and other items," Shimkus said. "We must have confidence in our food supply!" The Food Safety Enhancement Act requires foreign and domestic food facilities to have safety plans in place; increases inspection frequency for both foreign and domestic facilities; improves traceability in the event of a food-borne illness outbreak; requires country-of-origin labeling regarding final food processing; and permits mandatory recalls of tainted foods. "There were concerns about this legislation and its effect on agriculture," Shimkus added. "We were actively involved in making sure that farms would not be required to register under this legislation, nor are farms required to pay a registration fee. The bill exempts USDA-regulated farms, facilities, and products and those regulated by states under USDA requirements. "In addition, grain is not considered fresh produce under this bill, and the traceability requirements do not apply to farmers markets," he added. Shimkus stated, "This legislation is proof that Congress can work on major issues in a bipartisan manner. It is a matter of life and death, and I will continue to address concerns as we look forward to the food safety bill becoming law." ###
06.30.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is now accepting applications from young men and women interested in attending one of the United States military academies. High school seniors, college students, and anyone interested must apply now for summer 2010 admission. “As a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point and the recipient of a Congressional appointment myself, I am very proud to now assist others wishing to advance their careers and lives by serving their country,” Shimkus stated. To be eligible for appointment, you must be a United States citizen; at least 17 and not more than 23 years of age on July 1, 2010; unmarried; not pregnant; have no dependents; and a legal resident of the 19th Congressional District of Illinois. Average acceptable ACT scores are 24 in both math and English. Applications are accepted for the U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado; U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York; U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York. Those seeking more information or interested in applying should write for an application packet from Congressman John Shimkus, 240 Regency Centre, Collinsville, IL 62234; Attention: Dora Rohan. If you have questions, please call Dora at (618) 344-3065. Completed applications must be received prior to November 1, 2009. Shimkus nominates to the academies; however, academy officials actually make the final selections regarding attendance. Those accepted into an academy are notified in late spring. “I encourage young men and women with any level of interest to contact us now,” Shimkus added. “This is a lengthy process, and applications must be filed with both my office and the individual academies.” ###
06.29.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against the so-called American Clean Energy and Security Act (HR 2454) or Waxman-Markey cap and trade bill. The House narrowly passed the bill 219-212. "This bill will have the most wide-ranging affect on our nation of any legislation since I have been in Congress," Shimkus stated. "It is an outright tax that will cost residents of Illinois money and their jobs. "It reaches deep, not only into our pockets, but into our homes and agriculture. And there are numerous studies that show this will indeed cost families, exactly how much is hard to estimate, but whether its $600, $1,200, or $3,000 per year, where is your family going to come up with those funds? You'll have to pay a higher electricity bill, a higher natural gas or propane bill, a higher fertilizer bill, a higher gas credit card bill, a higher grocery bill, and on and on." The Heritage Foundation is estimating that this legislation will cause gasoline prices to go up by 77 cents per gallon. The higher cost of fuel will cause air travel prices to go up, shipping costs to go up, and hurt those industries. In turn, those higher costs will also have to be passed on to consumers. The Heritage Foundation also estimates that personal income of residents in Illinois' 19th District will fall by $471 million in 2012 if this bill becomes law. "This week we have learned that unemployment in Illinois is now over ten percent" Shimkus noted. "How can we implement legislation at this time that will cause even higher unemployment and huge costs to consumers?" National organizations that have come out against the Waxman-Markey energy tax include 60 Plus Association, Congress of Racial Equality (CORE), National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), Eagle Forum, and National Taxpayers Union. Agricultural groups opposed include the American Farm Bureau Federation, Illinois Fertilizer and Chemical Association, National Corn Growers Association, and Society of American Florists. In addition to raising energy costs and killing mining jobs here in Illinois, this bill includes bureaucratic horrors, such as national building codes that include energy standards without regard to cost for homebuilders and homebuyers; those trying to sell their home would have to first go through an energy audit; and eliminating current outdoor lighting technology used for large venues such as parking lots and stadiums. According to a Washington energy publication, the agricultural portion of the bill includes offset projects "such as methane-capture systems over lagoons of animal waste or changing bovine diets so cows burp less methane gas." Shimkus wonders, "How does one measure the amount of carbon reduced by fewer livestock burps? This shows the ridiculousness of this legislation. It creeps way too far into our lives and will harm every family and every business' finances. "It does nothing to promote new energy production; it just forces us to spend more money on energy. I support the Republican alternative, which is an all-of-the-above energy production bill that would increase energy production with some regard for consumers. "This bill takes the stick approach to energy use instead of taking the carrot approach to both conservation and production," Shimkus concluded. The Congressman's comments on this legislation can be watched on his You Tube website at www.youtube.com/repshimkus. ###
06.11.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) wants to remind area residents that the television switch to digital becomes final on Friday, June 12. "This switch from analog to digital television (DTV) was originally set for February but was pushed back due to concerns about many households being unprepared," Shimkus explained. "I want to give one last notice in order to make constituents aware of the switch." Many television stations that cover central and southern Illinois have already made the switch to digital, including ABC in St. Louis, NBC in Springfield, and PBS in Paducah. However, many more will switch on June 12. "There are two signal issues once television stations switch to digital," Shimkus explained. "First, the digital signal may not travel as far as the station's analog signal due to its technical features. Second, the digital transmitter may not be at full strength if the station was broadcasting in both analog and digital at the same time. So some signals could improve once the power is boosted. "In addition, the stations will not all switch at the same time on Friday. They will be switching throughout the day. "If you still use an antenna to receive your television signal and you have not purchased a digital receiver box, you may need to do so. The FCC has setup a hotline. If you have questions about the digital transition, call 1-888-CALL-FCC," Shimkus noted. ###
06.10.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) recognized the 100th anniversary of the Wildey Theater in Edwardsville by entering a statement into the permanent Congressional Record of the Unites States House of Representatives on June 8, 2009. The statement reads: "The Wildey Theater first opened its doors in 1909 at 250-254 Main Street in Edwardsville. Originally a three-story opera house and meeting hall, the Wildey soon began hosting silent films and live productions. In 1927 it presented 'The Jazz Singer,' the first motion picture to include sound. "For the next few decades, the Wildey Theater was the most popular location for entertainment in Edwardsville. Unfortunately, in 1998 the Wildey could no longer stay at it and was forced to close its doors. The City of Edwardsville purchased the building and began renovating the historic theater. With the benevolent actions from the citizens of Edwardsville the Wildey is being restored to its earlier grandeur. Last month, it celebrated its 100th birthday with an outdoor showing of 'The Wizard of Oz.' "I want to congratulate Alderman Rich Walker, chairman of the Wildey Theater's development committee, and the citizens of Edwardsville who have put countless hours and made generous contributions to this historic landmark. I look forward to visiting a restored Wildey Theater as it begins its second century as a gathering place in Edwardsville." NOTE: The entry can be accessed online at https://thomas.loc.gov/r111/r111.html, search "Extension of Remarks" on June 8, 2009, item number 30. ###
06.10.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) participated in today's introduction of the American Energy Act and will be an original cosponsor of the legislation. Shimkus joined House Republican leaders at a news conference in Washington on Wednesday. "Oil is once again going up, which means gas prices are going to go up," Shimkus said. "Some of my friends in Congress want to add to those costs with an energy tax disguised as 'cap-and-trade.' "Instead of adding to your heating, cooling, and gasoline bills, I want our nation to increase production of American energy, such as clean-coal, nuclear, wind, solar, renewables, and off-shore oil and gas. "We can make our nation less dependent on foreign energy at the same time we encourage new technologies that are environmentally friendly. We do not need to punish the American people with an energy tax." Nuclear power would be increased dramatically under the American Energy Act, allowing for new electricity generation without carbon emissions. Renewable energy, such as biomass, hydroelectric, wind, solar, clean coal, geothermal, would be funded. Biodiesel and renewable diesel tax credits would be extended. The Outer Continental Shelf, Arctic Coastal Plain, and oil shale on federal lands would all become available for lease quickly. A 60 day deadline on legal challenges would speed up the endless lawsuits that delay energy projects around the country. "We also encourage the development of super-efficient automobiles by providing a $500 million prize to the first U.S. auto manufacturer that sells 50,000 cars that get over 100 miles per gallon," Shimkus added. "This is an all-of-the-above energy approach instead of an energy tax. This bill could help reduce our energy imports and even create jobs here." House Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence of Indiana said, "In the midst of the worst recession and highest unemployment in decades, the Democrats' answer is a national energy tax that will lead to higher energy prices and massive job losses for the American people." Shimkus is co-chair of the American Energy Solutions Group formed by House Republicans to develop solutions to our nation's energy needs. He is also a senior Republican member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. ###
05.22.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) introduced an amendment during the debate of The American Clean Energy and Security Act (HR 2454) in the House Energy and Commerce Committee that would have protected coal mining jobs. However, that amendment was rejected by the Democrats on the Committee. "The Illinois Department of Natural Resources Office of Mines and Minerals has issued a report that four mines in Illinois closed as a direct result of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990," Shimkus said. "I want to do all that I can to try to stop this cap and trade or climate change bill we are now debating in Congress from becoming law, as I believe it has the potential to cause mine closures. "So, I introduced an amendment that would make the provisions of the cap and trade portion of the bill end if two or more mines closed," he explained. "Obviously the authors of the bill want coal mines to close, and my amendment was rejected on a party line vote of 22-34." The amendment's exact language read, "Due to inadequate allowances for the coal production industry the provisions of this Act (including the amendments made by this Act) shall cease to have any force and effect if two or more coal mines close as a result of the implementation of such provisions of Title III." Phil Gonet, president of the Illinois Coal Association, added, "Following the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments, the Illinois coal industry suffered greatly. We went from 36 coal mines producing 62 million tons of coal with 10,000 employees to just 15 coal mines in 2003 producing 31 million tons of coal with only 3,500 employees. I am very concerned about what the Waxman-Markey cap and trade bill will do to the Illinois coal industry." ###
05.22.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against the Waxman-Markey cap and trade global climate legislation (HR 2454) on its final passage out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "This legislation was negotiated behind closed doors by the sponsors and the Democratic members of the Committee. Despite our protestations that this legislation is a tax on the American people, it passed out of Committee," Shimkus explained. "The President himself said a cap and trade law would quote 'cause electricity prices to skyrocket.' Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Emeritus John Dingell said quote 'cap and trade is a tax, and it's a great big one.' "This bill will destroy jobs and raise costs for every American," Shimkus said. "The Heritage Foundation studied this bill and estimates that by 2035 over one million jobs per year will be lost; electricity rates will go up by 90 percent; gasoline prices will go up by 74 percent; natural gas prices will go up by 55 percent. This is not what our country needs right now. "This legislation will stop new coal-fired power plants unless they use carbon capture sequestration -- technology that is still in development stages. There is so much wrong with this legislation. It is government over-reaching way too far into our lives, and doing so at a huge cost to every American," Shimkus added. "Rural America and the working class will be hit the hardest. I will continue to fight against this legislation as it moves through Congress." ###
05.21.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to support House passage of the Credit Cardholders Bill of Rights Act (HR 627) after the legislation was previously amended by the Senate. "I previously supported the underlying bill protecting credit cardholders and was pleased to do so again," Shimkus stated. The credit cardholder provisions include: 45 days notice of increases in the annual percentage rate (APR); prohibits interest rate, fee, or finance charge increases on existing balances; requires a six month review after interest rates are increased; prohibits interest rate increases for one year after a new account is opened and no sooner than six months if opened on a promotional rate; prohibits over-the-limits fees unless the cardholder approves the charge; prohibits a fee based on the manner in which a payment is made; requires that payments mailed by 5 p.m. on the due date to be applied without a late fee; requires that a payment due date be the same day each month and that payments received on the first business day after a weekend or holiday be considered paid on time; requires credit card companies to post contracts online; requires credit card companies to disclose if late payments could result in fees or higher interest rates; prohibits issuing credit cards to those under 21 unless they have a cosigner or have independent means to pay; and prohibits fees on balances that only accrued interest. The bill now goes to the President. He has indicated that he plans to sign the bill into law. ###
05.15.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) has joined House colleagues in expressing concern about the elimination of thousands of Chrysler and General Motor dealerships. The Chrysler announcement was made public Thursday, and 789 dealership agreements in the United States will be terminated within weeks pending approval by the bankruptcy judge. The GM announcements are being kept confidential by the company, as their agreements do not expire until October 2010. "I have talked to affected Chrysler dealerships in and around my district," Shimkus said. "I know they are concerned for their employees and with the disregard Chrysler is showing them as a business partner. In addition to this letter, I plan to follow-up with another letter of my own that addresses some of the specific concerns relayed to me by the dealerships." Shimkus is joining in a letter from dozens of Members of the House to the U.S. Department of Treasury given its role in assisting the domestic auto industry. The letter notes that combined, 150,000 people could be put out of work at a time when the unemployment rate is already high. In addition, closing dealerships doesn't make sense when auto makers need to increase sales. The letter states, in part: "Automobile dealers are one of the largest private sector employers in the United States, providing tens of thousands of local jobs and contributing millions of dollars in tax revenues to states. Auto dealers are anchors in communities throughout the country, and many times ownership is passed down from generation to generation." "Another factor to consider is the loss of local tax revenues to communities where dealerships are forced out of business," Shimkus added. "There has been a natural reduction in dealerships over the last year, but I don't see how canceling dealership agreements saves the auto companies as much money as they claim. These dealerships make them money." ###
05.06.2009	Washington, DC - The American Energy Solutions Group (AESG), a House Republican leadership group designed to develop energy policy, held its first meeting on Tuesday, May 5, in Washington, DC, as part of a National Energy Summit. Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is a co-chair of the group. The Summit heard energy experts -- including researchers from the American Enterprise Institute, Heritage Foundation, and a former U.S. Environmental Protection Agency employee -- confirming that a carbon emissions law or cap and trade law or global warming law would be a tax on the American people. "I have been decrying the job losses and huge costs of this legislation," Shimkus said. "The experts today confirmed my belief that the economic harm does not justify what I believe to be zero worldwide environmental gain. "Jobs will be lost to countries, like China and India, which will not reduce their carbon emissions. And the average American household will have to bear the burden with higher costs on energy, gasoline, and every manufactured item that could total $3,900 per year." House Republican Leader John Boehner of Ohio, Republican Whip Eric Cantor of Virginia, Republican Conference Chairman Mike Pence of Indiana, who is chairman of the AESG, and Congressman Fred Upton of Michigan, the other co-chair, along with Shimkus and more than a dozen other Republican House Members participated in this event. ###
04.30.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted for the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights Act (HR 627), which will help protect consumers from changes to their credit cards. The bill passed the House and now goes to the Senate for consideration. The new regulations on credit card companies include: Prohibiting an interest rate increase on an existing balance except under specific circumstances; Prohibiting fees on an interest-only balances; Requiring 45 days notice on interest rate increases and contract changes; Requiring each statement include the telephone number, email address, and website where the payoff balance on the credit card can be obtained; Requiring that fixed rates advertised not vary for any reason during the specified time period; Requiring statements be sent at least 21 calendar days before the due date; Requiring statements specify the date when the payment would be deemed late; Allowing consumers to prohibit transactions over their authorized credit limit from being completed in order to avoid over-the-limit fees; Prohibiting credit cards from being issued to those under age 18; and Prohibiting a fee for making a payment by electronic fund transfer. "While these proposals are very helpful to consumers and will protect them against questionable practices, we must also ensure that our legislative efforts do not make it even harder for consumers to access credit," Shimkus noted. "Consumer should read carefully before obtaining a new credit card and review existing credit card regulations." ###
04.29.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against the federal budget resolution for fiscal year 2010 (S. Con. Res. 13). This is the outline for spending, not the actual appropriations of funds. There is no legal obligation to follow this budget, but it does give guidelines as the appropriations process begins. "This budget spends too much, taxes too much, and borrows too much," Shimkus said. "This budget increases spending to historic levels not seen since World War II." The budget resolution not only outlines this year's budget but gives a blueprint for the next five years. "This budget estimates a $1.2 trillion deficit next year and adds over $5 trillion to the federal debt over the next five years," he added. "The Democrats' proposal also includes $423 billion in tax increases over the next five years. "While American families are watching how much they spend in tight economic conditions, the federal government just keeps on spending like mad," Shimkus noted. "Republicans did offer an alternative, but obviously our efforts went unheeded to not raise taxes, to control spending, and to hold down our borrowing." ###
04.28.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is announcing that former employees of North American Lighting plants in Paris, Salem and Flora are eligible for federal Worker Adjustment Assistance and Alternative Trade Adjustment Assistance. The U.S. Department of Labor investigation began on November 24, 2008. The Paris plant produced advanced forward lighting. Included for Paris are workers hired through Manpower, Select, and Trillium. The Salem plant produced signal lighting. Included for Salem are workers hired through Westaff, Manpower, and Select. The Flora plant produced forward lighting. Included for Flora are workers hired through Westaff. The corporate office employees in Paris are also included. "The Department of Labor determined that an increase in imports of exterior automotive lighting was responsible for the loss of jobs here," Shimkus explained. Under the ruling, "All workers of North American Lighting, Inc., (including all employees are described above)...who became totally or partially separated from employment, on or after November 21, 2007, through two years from the date of certification, are eligible to apply for adjustment assistance." The determination was made on April 21, 2009. Benefits include training, income support if in a training program, job search assistance, relocation assistance, and health care tax credits. For more information or to apply for these benefits, former Trim Masters employees should contact any office of the Illinois Department of Employment Security. The nearest IDES offices are located at: 325 South Poplar Street Centralia 618-532-4741 2311 Hoffman Drive Effingham 217-342-4149 333 Potomac Blvd. Suite E Mt. Vernon 618-244-1700.
04.15.2009	Springfield, IL - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) attended the Tax Day Tea Party in Springfield today, giving encouragement to citizens rallying against out of control federal spending. "The President and Congressional leaders have crafted a budget that spends too much, taxes too much, and borrows too much," Shimkus said. "We have to get our spending under control or future generations will be unfairly burdened by all the new debt we'll be issuing. "The Democrats' budget would increase taxes by over one trillion dollars over the next ten years. Small business taxes, energy consumer taxes, capital gains taxes, dividend taxes, death taxes, and many others would go up under the proposed budget approved by the House," he added. Shimkus explained, "I have voted against these tax increases, against the bailouts, against the so-called stimulus, and will continue to say no. My fiscal philosophy has always been one of less spending, lower taxes, and more personal freedom. "Today's Tea Parties exemplify what's great about the United States...citizens gathering peacefully to express their dissatisfaction with their government. I join them in saying no to outrageous spending and never ending debt."
04.13.2009	Washington, DC - While April 15 is the day our federal and state income taxes are due, Illinoisans work till April 13 this year just to pay all our taxes. According to Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19), those 103 days are enough. "While many people might say we don't pay enough income tax to the federal government, they forget about all the taxes combined that we do pay," Shimkus said. "To calculate Tax Freedom Day, the Tax Foundation considers not only state and federal income tax, but also payroll taxes, sales taxes, property taxes, corporate taxes, and other miscellaneous taxes like license fees. "I have always voted to allow working families the ability to keep more of their hard earned money in their pockets versus the government's pockets. You know how to spend your own money better than we do in Washington. "Yet many people want Washington to control even more of our lives by raising income taxes and instituting other new taxes, like a carbon tax that will increase costs of electricity and every manufactured good," Shimkus noted. "They want Washington to control more of your healthcare decisions and take away some options for retirement funding. "I firmly believe in less government, lower taxes, and more personal freedom. Those ground me. Our opponents in Washington want to make us all dependent on them for our every need." The national average 2009 Tax Freedom Day is April 13. Missouri is April 6; Kentucky is April 3; and Indiana is April 8. The highest tax state is Connecticut, whose Tax Freedom Day is April 30. The lowest tax state is Alaska, whose Tax Freedom Day is March 23.
04.09.2009	Collinsville, IL - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) sent a letter of support to the United Steelworkers, as they rally in Granite City today. In his letter Shimkus highlighted his own family's ties to the local steel mills, his past support of tariffs on imported steel, and his support for "Buy American" provisions in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Upon learning on March 18 of pipe coming in from India for the TransCanada pipeline, Shimkus issued a statement saying, "I am shocked and saddened to learn that steel is being imported for this project. The pipeline is vital to our nation's energy needs, but bringing in foreign steel is a slap in the face to the hard working men and women out of work from our local steel mills and related companies." On April 3 the Executive Committee of the Congressional Steel Caucus, of which Shimkus is a member, sent a bipartisan letter to the Office of Management and Budget. The letter urges that as the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 is implemented, it "adhere to the full intent of the 'Buy America' amendment" as it applies to "all federal, state, or local public buildings or public works projects" funded by the law. The letter urges "a strict application of the two-part test developed under the Buy American Act of 1933 for determining whether a 'manufactured good' is made in the United States" and the "use of the long-standing definition of 'iron and steel' developed by the Department of Transportation to determine if ron and steel are produced in the United States."
03.30.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce U.S. Department of Health and Human Services funding for Southern Illinois University Edwardsville. The $24,465 grant is for Nurse Anesthetist Traineeships. "The training of nurse anesthetists and many other healthcare fields of study is very important to our region and our nation," Shimkus explained. "In these uncertain economic times, healthcare workers are still in demand." “Nurse anesthetist preparation is very costly for the student,” said SIUE School of Nursing Dean Marcia Maurer. “The traineeship funding will allow those students who are financially strapped to continue their education. This funding is greatly appreciated.” This grant is through a competitive program and continues federal support for SIUE's Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist program, which is already full for its next class that begins in May. The federal Nurse Anesthetist Traineeship program supports traineeships for licensed registered nurses enrolled as full-time students beyond the 12th month of study in a master's nurse anesthesia program.
03.19.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted to impose a 90 percent tax on employee bonuses if the company they work for received assistance from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), which was the Wall Street bailout program. It has recently become known that Senator Dodd removed language from the stimulus bill that would have prohibited the bonuses AIG employees received. He is quoted as saying that Obama Administration officials asked that the language be removed. "I would like for the taxpayers to get 100 percent of these funds back, and will continue to fight till every penny is returned," Shimkus said. "This incident shows the lack of control on these TARP funds and the lack of government oversight about how the money is spent. "While I share concerns that the courts may rule against this legislation, the Democratic majority allowed these bonuses to be distributed. I voted for this legislation to send a signal to Wall Street and those companies abusing taxpayer dollars that Congress and the American people are not going to stand by and let them waste our money. "As a reminder, I have consistently voted against all the bailouts - Wall Street, AIG, the banks and auto companies. We are throwing money around to all the big shots and forgetting about the people," Shimkus added.
03.19.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is pleased to announce that the Massac County Fire Department is the recipient of funding through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The program is administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration, both are part of the U. S. Department of Homeland Security. The Massac County Fire Department, based in Metropolis, will receive $171,288 for Operations and Safety. "Operations and Safety funds can be used for training, equipment, personal protective gear, wellness and fitness, or health and safety improvements to a fire station," Shimkus explained. "The Massac County department is to be commended for their hard work to obtain this competitive grant," Shimkus added. "My office can assist with fire grants or any other federal grant program application. Just contact my Springfield office at 217-492-5090." Fire departments serving less than 20,000 residents are required to provide a five percent non-federal match for these one year grants. Departments serving between 20,000 and 50,000 residents must provide a ten percent match, and larger departments must provide a 20 percent match.
03.11.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Reps. Timothy V. Johnson and John Shimkus released the following statements today upon the issuance of findings of the General Accounting Office study showing that the Department of Energy grossly over-inflated cost estimates for FutureGen. The GAO report was issued at a meeting of the House Science and Technology Subcommittee on Energy and Environment. The GAO auditors found that the DOE erred in overestimating the cost of FutureGen by $500 million, an error that was used to justify scrapping the project that had been slated for Mattoon. In summary, the report "recommends that DOE re-examine its restructuring decision, based on the comparative costs, benefits, and risks of the original and restructured programs, as well as other incremental options for modifying the original program." In response, Rep. Johnson said: “We knew that former Secretary Bodman’s department was incompetent, but we at least thought they could do basic math. This just further reinforces our position that Mattoon was the best choice all along, from an environmental, geological and financial point of view. I hope this provides all the more momentum to get this project moving again and I would encourage Secretary Chu to now do the right thing and release the Record of Decision so that the region and the nation can move forward with this promising technology.” Rep. Shimkus added: "The GAO report clearly shows that the DOE decisions were made to reflect the former Secretary's position, not on science and not on actual costs involved. I hope this report will spur Secretary Chu to clean-up this mess and move forward with FutureGen in Mattoon."
03.08.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement on the shooting this morning at First Baptist Church in Maryville, Illinois: "I personally know several members of First Baptist Church. And I have met with Pastor Winters several times over the years. I want to extend my personal condolences to Pastor Winters' family and the entire First Baptist family." "This is a tragic event, and I continue to pray for all touched by this. I am reminded of scripture, from Romans Chapter 14, verses 7 and 8: 'For none of us lives to himself alone and none of us dies to himself along. If we live, we live to the Lord; and if we die, we die to the Lord. So, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord."
03.05.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) participated in a news conference in Washington, D.C., Thursday announcing his co-sponsorship of the bipartisan Safe Food Enforcement, Assessment, Standards and Targeting Act (Safe FEAST Act). "The Safe FEAST Act will re-establish the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a consumer safety agency," Shimkus explained. "Both foreign and domestic food suppliers will have to meet the same strict standards. And the FDA will be able to assess products that need more frequent inspections." Other highlights of the Safe FEAST Act include: Food will be denied entry into the marketplace if the suppliers do not meet strict FDA standards. Mandatory Recall: Gives the FDA authority to recall when firms fail to voluntarily recall products on their own. Communication between state and federal agencies and the food industry will be more open. Establishes new safety standards for fruit and vegetables. "We all know about recent food safety issues involving spinach, peanuts, and jalapenos. And the FDA needs to be strong and quicker in their actions - both inspecting facilities to prevent problems from occurring and in getting information to the public quicker once a situation has been found," Shimkus added. The Safe FEAST Act was introduced by Congressmen Jim Costa (D, California), a member of the Agriculture Committee, and Adam Putnam (R, Florida).
02.25.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) is seeking entries for the 2009 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. This is an annual contest held nationwide in each Congressional district. "We have had some excellent winners over the years," Shimkus said. "This is great opportunity for a young artist to get exposure of their original artwork in Washington, DC." The contest is open to high school students who reside in the 19th District or in a school district that is in the 19th District. The winning entry from Shimkus' district is displayed with other winners from around the country in the underground tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building and the U.S. Capitol. In addition, the winner will be flown courtesy of Southwest Airlines to Washington for a special ceremony. The deadline to submit entries is Friday, April 24. Information has been sent to high schools and is also available from any of Shimkus' offices. To have an information packet sent directly to you, call Matt at 217-492-5090. "The entries must all be original artwork that meets the guidelines of the contest," Shimkus explained. "I encourage all student artists to submit their work. We have had winners that were very traditional and winner that were somewhat modern."
02.13.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) cosponsored a House Resolution (H. Res. 139) introduced by Congressman Phil Hare (D, Illinois-17) "Commemorating the life and legacy of President Abraham Lincoln on the bicentennial of his birth." The resolution passed the House unanimously February 13. "It is with great pride that we celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of one of our nation's greatest presidents and an enduring treasure of our state," Shimkus noted. "Not only is the Lincoln story one of hope for all, but it is also a story of second chances and paying the price for one's beliefs." In Washington, Shimkus attended a National Wreath Laying Ceremony at the Lincoln Memorial in the morning on February 12. He presented a wreath on behalf of the Illinois State Society of which he is president this year. "With the President's visit to Springfield this week, the legacy of Lincoln is in the international spotlight, and I am proud to be an Illinoisan and a Republican," he added. The complete text of the resolution can be found online at: https://thomas.loc.gov/home/c111bills.html; click on House Resolutions; then find H. Res. 139.
02.13.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement after voting against (as did every Republican) the so called "stimulus" Conference Report (HR 1): "While I fully acknowledge the pain that many families are feeling if they are currently unemployed or are facing financial difficulties, I cannot support spending over one trillion dollars of those same families and all of our money in future taxes. "The Democrats' bill that passed creates far fewer jobs than the alternative version I supported, but we were never given an opportunity to even vote on an alternative. The legislation I support would have limited the stimulus bill to tax cuts, infrastructure projects, and help for the unemployed - items that really create jobs, not just spending money on pet programs. "This legislation hardly meets any of our nation's infrastructure needs. It spends less nationwide on roads and bridges than the state General Assembly is considering for Illinois alone. In addition, language requiring companies to verify citizenship of employees was removed, which could allow illegal workers to benefit from taxpayer funded projects. "I have been hearing from my constituents, and they overwhelmingly said to reject this massive spending bill. I agreed with them and voted no."
02.11.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressmen Jerry Costello (D-IL) and John Shimkus (R-IL), Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) and 16 other members of the Illinois Congressional delegation today urged the Secretary of the Air Force to locate Cyber Command at Scott Air Force Base. It was recently announced that Scott is one of six bases being considered for Cyber Command, which will serve to coordinate activity regarding cyber threats and would bring an estimated 500 jobs. The letter to Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley emphasized Scott’s commitment to the “Future Total Force” concept, which focuses on integrating the various services on base, and Scott’s central location in the country as of critical importance to Cyber Command. A technologically-savvy local workforce and great community environment are also important features that Scott offers. “We have worked very hard for over a decade to help make sure that Scott is prepared to take on more missions and we believe Cyber Command is a perfect fit for the base,” said Costello. “With the assets already in place at Scott, which include Transportation Command, Air Mobility Command and the Air Force Communications Agency, integrating Cyber Command can be done efficiently and the high quality of life the area offers is well regarded by military families.” “Scott Air Force Base is a unique global military hub that already employs personnel with the scientific and technical expertise needed to support Cyber Command operations,” said Durbin. “It plays an essential role both in our nation’s defense and in the region’s economy. Locating the Cyber Command at Scott Air Force Base – the largest employer south of Springfield – will create more good paying jobs in the Metro-East area.” "Scott is vital to the economy in southwestern Illinois, the greater St. Louis area, and even into a large area of south central Illinois. Personally and as a Congressional delegation, we want to support every effort to increase the role of Scott in any way possible. The Air Force Cyber Command would fit in perfectly with the other commands already located on base. I fully support this effort to bring 500 new military and civilian jobs to Scott," stated Shimkus.
01.28.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) voted against the Democrats’ so-called stimulus bill (HR 1) on January 28. The over $1 trillion cost of the bill and the unnecessary spending were high on Shimkus’ list of reasons to vote no. “First, I fully appreciate the need for a federal stimulus package and could support a reasonably priced one that focused on tax cuts and infrastructure projects. Unfortunately, this bill goes way beyond those job-creating aspects,” Shimkus explained. “Once interest payments on the increased debt are included, the House Democrats’ plan costs over $1.1 trillion – that’s an amazing cost. Second, the highway infrastructure portion is only $30 billion for the whole country. This is an area of the stimulus plan that actually can create jobs – why it isn’t a larger portion is beyond me. “And which projects will end up getting funded is not really fully spelled out in the bill. My district could end up with no projects funded,” Shimkus added. President Obama met with Congressional Republicans on Tuesday to discuss the stimulus bill. Shimkus was able to attend that meeting. “The President seems willing to listen to Republicans and promises changes to the plan, but I don’t know that his party’s leadership in Congress has the same willingness to make changes in the bill. So far they have not,” Shimkus said. As an alternative, Shimkus has cosponsored the Economic Recovery and Middle-Class Tax Relief Act. That legislation is based on three main themes: Support Families through Tax Relief; Provide Economic Relief for American Businesses and Entrepreneurs; and Save Future Generations from a Crushing Debt Burden.
01.20.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) issued the following statement on the occasion of the inauguration of President Barack Obama: The inauguration of a new president is always an historic event, particularly in Washington, D.C. I am proud to attend and be an observer for the people of my district who would like to be there in person but cannot. The inauguration of our nation's first African-American president adds to its significance. And to have the president from our state is even more exciting. I do hope that he will be successful in moving our nation forward and in solving our problems. I also hope that his call for bipartisanship is heard by the leaders in Congress, who have not been operating in that manner. It will be hard to work together if we do not have full and open debates on the important issues of our day. Finally, I want to congratulate President Obama and promise to work to advance solutions that will help not harm job creation and the economy, will help not harm Central and Southern Illinois, and do not go against my core beliefs.
01.15.2009	Washington, DC - Congressman John Shimkus (R, Illinois-19) received his subcommittee assignments as a member of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee in the 111th Congress. Shimkus has served on this committee since 1997 and is the seventh ranking Republican on the committee. The committee's top Republican, Joe Barton of Texas, has assigned Shimkus to the Energy and Environment Subcommittee, Health Subcommittee, and Communications, Telecommunications and the Internet Subcommittee. "I am thrilled to be a member of the top three subcommittees for the next two years," Shimkus stated. "I will be returning to the energy and telecom subcommittees and am pleased to rejoin the health subcommittee. "Obviously, energy issues and climate change will be an important legislative issue this year, and healthcare will also receive a great deal of attention. I hope to bring a point of view to these debates that do not cause increased energy prices for consumers or restrict healthcare access by adding government bureaucracy." Shimkus gave up his ranking position on the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee in order to garner slots on the top three subcommittees.
01.13.2009	Washington, DC - U.S. Congressmen Jerry Costello (D-IL) and John Shimkus (R-IL) announced today that they will introduce the Veterans’ Health Care Quality Improvement Act in the House of Representatives for consideration during the 111th Congress. The bill seeks to improve the hiring process for physicians and implement other quality controls at Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) medical facilities. The legislation was originally introduced in December 2007 amid investigation of surgery unit malpractice resulting in deaths at the Marion, Illinois VA Medical Center. The bill mandates that doctors applying for VA positions disclose all previous medical malpractice allegations, disciplinary actions and payments. In addition, the VA would appoint a “National Quality Assurance Officer” to carry out the quality assurance program nationally, and such officers would be appointed regionally and at all VA medical facilities to monitor the provision of care. The legislation also makes loan repayment, tuition reimbursement and other incentives available to recruit doctors for hard to fill positions. U.S. Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) will again introduce the bill in the Senate. “Enacting these reforms is part of our ongoing effort to make sure what happened at Marion does not happen again,” said Costello. “Our veterans deserve quality health care and they and their families need to know they can get that care at the VA. At the same time, this bill supports the employees at the VA, the vast majority of who are truly dedicated to their jobs and our veterans. We must continue to work to restore faith in the VA system.” "While the incidents from October 2006 to March 2007 at the Marion VA Medical Center were appalling, improvements are slowly being made. This legislation is a continuing effort to help local veterans receive the best health care possible," stated Shimkus.
01.06.2009	Washington, DC - John Shimkus, a Republican from Collinsville, Illinois, was sworn into his seventh term representing Illinois in the United States House of Representatives. His first three terms were from the 20th District, and this is his fourth term from the 19th District. "I am always honored and humbled by the faith that the residents of this district place in me to be their vote in Congress," Shimkus said. "I take this responsibility seriously and want constituents to know that they have every right and duty to contact one of my offices to let me know their thoughts and positions." Shimkus maintains full-time offices in Washington, DC, Collinsville, Springfield, and Harrisburg and part-time offices in Centralia and Olney. His website contains a variety of helpful information to constituents. A weekly e-mail newsletter can be received by signing up on the website under "Stay Informed." "This year Congress will have to deal with many important issues that face our nation and world. We continue to fight terrorism around the globe and particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan. We are in the midst of an economic recession coupled with high unemployment and foreclosures. And we have a huge government deficit that will probably get worse unless we control our spending. "I promise to be a voice of reason...balancing the need to help individuals by lowering taxes and assisting where the federal government can in creating jobs and at the same time protecting taxpayers from unproductive government overspending," Shimkus noted.
