04.22.2019	Today, Co-Chairs of the New Democrat Climate Change Task Force, Reps. Don Beyer, Sean Casten, Elaine Luria, and Susan Wild, released the following statement on Earth Day: "As we mark Earth Day, the planet faces environmental hazards which are already having significant impacts on the country. Recent scientific reports have made it clear that climate change is an existential threat to Americans’ health, national security, and economic prosperity. The New Democrat Coalition is committed to confronting this challenge. We are pleased by the swift legislative steps taken in the current Congress to address climate change, including the formation of a Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, hearings held by House committees, and broad legislation which will come to the floor soon. We are discussing additional proposals that would boost clean energy innovation and rapidly reduce carbon pollution. We remain focused on protecting clean air and water, safeguarding America’s natural resources, and prioritizing environmental justice. Earth Day is a reminder that we only have one planet, and we must work together to protect it."
04.22.2019	Congressional Safe Climate Caucus co-chairs Reps. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) and Don Beyer (VA-08) issued the following statement honoring the 49th anniversary of Earth Day: “Over the course of the 116th Congress, House Democrats have worked diligently to put forward a climate agenda that prioritizes a safe and sustainable future of all people. Every member of the Safe Climate Caucus stands ready and willing to act on the moral crisis of our generation: climate change. It is Congress’ duty to the American people to protect public health, clean air and water, and the planet we all call home. From supporting the introduction of the Climate Action Now Act (H.R. 9), to having five members on the Climate Crisis Committee, to participating in an unprecedented level of committee hearings, our Caucus continues to prove its commitment to make bold, substantive progress on climate.”
04.10.2019	Representatives Matt Cartwright (PA-08), Hal Rogers (KY-05), Glenn Thompson (PA-15), and Don Beyer (VA-08) introduced bipartisan legislation on Tuesday to revitalize coal country by giving communities the funds they need to clean up abandoned mine lands. The Revitalizing the Economy of Coal Communities by Leveraging Local Activities and Investing More Act (RECLAIM) Act will accelerate the investment of $1 billion in unappropriated funds over the next five years, bringing roughly $300 million to Pennsylvania alone, giving states the tools they need to invest in communities that are dealing with the legacy of abandoned mines. These old mine sites create problems such as polluted streams, hazardous erosion and land subsidence, underground mine fires, and piles of coal waste. The funding is intended to help resource-strapped states and tribes clean up over 20,000 high priority sites that remain unaddressed. “This bill brings much-needed funding to struggling coal communities, while also helping them eliminate blight and pollution,” said Congressman Cartwright. “It’s a common-sense piece of legislation that will help Pennsylvanians reclaim these lands and create jobs that can transform entire communities. I applaud Congressman Rogers for his years of leadership on this critical issue.” The RECLAIM Act, which was approved by the House Natural Resources Committee in the 115th Congress, was met with strong bipartisan support during a hearing organized by the Committee in March this year. Witnesses described the urgent need to remove the many environmental and health hazards caused by abandoned mines sites throughout Appalachia. RECLAIM funds may be used to restore land and water resources polluted by mine waste; to seal and fill abandoned deep mine entries and voids; to plant land and prevent erosion and sedimentation; and to treat water pollution created by coal mine drainage; among other purposes. These reclamation efforts will help streams recover, increase property values, and make land available for new economic uses that benefit struggling communities with a stagnant tax base. “Pennsylvania’s 15th Congressional District is home to more abandoned mine sites than any other district in the country,” said Congressman Thompson, a Republican from Pennsylvania. “Providing additional resources to clean up these locations will increase environmental benefits to our rivers and watersheds, and will have an added bonus of economic activity in many rural areas. I am pleased we can move forward in a bipartisan manner and will continue to work with Pennsylvania’s advocates to move this important bill through the legislative process.” “The RECLAIM act provides a transformative opportunity for coal-producing states to fast-track available funding to restore our land and revive our economy in the coalfields,” said Congressman Rogers, a Republican from Kentucky. “I thank my Appalachian colleague from across the aisle, Congressman Matt Cartwright, for his leadership in this new Congress and I look forward to working together to bring relief to our struggling coal communities across the country.” “As Lieutenant Governor of Virginia, I spent nine years touring Virginia’s coal counties, where I witnessed the harsh effects of an economic downturn as well as the degradation of the land,” said Congressman Beyer, a Democrat from Virginia. “By reinvesting this money in these communities, we will provide access to much needed jobs and help to restore unused and abandoned mines.” The RECLAIM Act has been endorsed by several national organizations, including the Sierra Club, Voices for Progress, the Prairie Rivers Network, Appalachian Voices, the Western Organization of resources Councils, the Western Colorado Alliance for Community Action, the Alliance for Appalachia, the Appalachian Citizens’ Law Center, the BlueGreen Alliance, the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Wilderness Society, Diné Citizens Against Running our Environment, the Eastern PA Coalition for Abandoned Mine Reclamation (EPCAMR), the Foundation for PA Watersheds, the Citizens Coal Council, and the National Wildlife Federation. “The RECLAIM Act will create good-paying jobs by reclaiming abandoned mine land and providing economic opportunity in areas that are struggling right now,” said BlueGreen Alliance Interim Co-Executive Director Michael Williams. “It is critical that as our nation moves toward a clean energy economy, we make sure that no worker or community is left behind. The RECLAIM Act is an important step toward a better future for all.”
04.10.2019	Today Rep. Beyer voted for the Save the Internet Act, legislation to restore internet protections commonly known as net neutrality following their repeal by the Trump Administration. The legislation, introduced by Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA), passed the House with all Democrats and one Republican voting in favor. ”Today House Democrats took decisive action to protect internet freedom by voting to restore net neutrality,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “The Trump Administration’s decision to end this policy showed the President’s clear preference for corporate interests over the public good. Our move to reverse his decision would help people across the country who need and deserve consumer-friendly internet regulations. This bill would also give a big boost to the small businesses, start-ups, and entrepreneurs who depend on a free and open internet to grow their businesses. The Senate should pass this bill swiftly and send it to the President’s desk.” Beyer’s support for the Save the Internet Act was heavily influenced by an Arlington town hall, held with former Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chair Tom Wheeler who developed the rule, which demonstrated the overwhelming support for net neutrality in Virginia’s 8th District.
04.04.2019	Today, Rep. Beyer voted to pass H.R. 1585 a bipartisan, robust, long-term Violence Against Women Act reauthorization. The landmark Violence Against Women Act of 1994 ushered in transformative progress by calling for the protection of all Americans from violence and abuse, and working to ensure all victims and survivors have the support they need. This critical reauthorization, which passed the House by a vote of 263-158, will safeguard and further build upon these life-saving protections for women throughout Virginia and across the country. “It is an honor to join my colleagues to pass this vital legislation and uphold our sacred duty to protect the millions of victims and survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault,” said Rep. Beyer. “Yet, in too many communities, too many Americans, including 1 in 3 women, still encounter domestic violence. Our work in Congress will never be done until every woman, in every part of our society, can live free from violence and fear.” This reauthorization fulfills Congress’s responsibility to protect all Americans by reaffirming protections for every woman, as well as including vital improvements to address gaps in current law that have been identified by victims, survivors and advocates. This bipartisan bill: Improves the services available for victims and survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking; Expands the housing protections and financial assistance available for victims and survivors; Improves protections for Native women, including by reaffirming tribal criminal jurisdiction over non-Indian perpetrators of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; Closes loopholes in current firearm laws in order help prevent “intimate partner” homicides, by prohibiting persons convicted of misdemeanor stalking or dating violence from possessing firearms; and Invests in tools and resources for law enforcement and evidence-based prevention programs that make our communities safer.
04.04.2019	Today, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Doris Matsui (D-CA) led 112 Democrats in a letter to the Chairs of the Budget and Appropriations Committees requesting future budget resolutions and appropriations bills reflect the investment needed to address climate change. After years of Republican inaction on climate, the lawmakers emphasized that Democrats are ready to take bold action to address this generational crisis. The lawmakers cited the findings of the 4th National Climate Assessment and the recent United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Report for the need to make significant investments to prevent and mitigate climate change and its effects. A signed copy of the letter can be found here. *** Dear Chair Yarmuth and Chair Lowey: The most recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report and the Fourth National Climate Assessment (NCA) highlight the critical need for the United States to more effectively address known causes of climate change. As we consider future budgets and appropriations, we must adjust spending levels to respond to the latest science and to repeated calls from the scientific community to invest in efforts to meaningfully address climate change. Congress cannot afford to maintain the status quo. The IPCC report found that climate change is occurring earlier and more rapidly than expected and that limiting global warming to 1.5°C would require rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society. If we maintain the status quo, we only have 12 years before we will reach a global warming of 1.5°C. According to the NCA, the dominant cause is human activities, particularly greenhouse gas emissions. We already see the consequences of 1°C of global warming through more extreme weather events, deadly wildfires, rising sea levels, and diminishing Arctic sea ice. Inaction and underinvestment will increase the risk of long-lasting or irreversible change. We must keep these concerns front and center as we determine subcommittee allocations that sufficiently scale up research and development, resiliency, and mitigation to address the climate crisis. Under Republican control, Congress underfunded these critical programs. For example, the Advanced Research Projects Agency - Energy has never been funded at the scale or level of resources Congress envisioned. The National Academy of Sciences recommended a base level of $300 million in 2007, rising to $1 billion by 2011. Despite universal stakeholder agreement with those recommendations, Congress has failed to significantly scale beyond the initial $300 million recommendation. Similarly, demand for grants for coastal resiliency exceed availability. In fiscal year 2017, 167 proposals requesting more than $135 million in funding competed for just $15 million in grant funding. As the IPCC report mentions, we minimize future climate risk and associated costs by upscaling and accelerating climate mitigation and adaptation. Now, with the new Democratic Majority, as Congress proceeds through the budget and appropriations cycle for fiscal year 2020, it is imperative that we meet the investment demanded to effectively respond to the latest climate science. Doing so will enable us to combat the climate crisis and protect our world for future generations. Sincerely,
04.03.2019	Today, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) led a bipartisan letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies calling for strong funding for the Energy Department’s clean energy innovation programs: Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) program, Energy Innovation Hubs, and Energy Frontier Research Centers (EFRCs). The letter comes after the Trump administration FY 2020 budget proposal continues an alarming trend of placing environmental protection and clean energy innovation programs at risk. Specifically, the Administration proposed to zero out funding for the important ARPA-E program for the third year in a row. ARPA-E possesses both bipartisan support in Congress and the support of Energy Secretary Rick Perry, who stated last year that ARPA-E “has had and is having such a profound impact on American lives.” The lawmakers wrote: “As Members with a strong interest in clean energy innovation and maintaining U.S. global energy leadership, we thank the subcommittee for continuing to fund several key Department of Energy (DOE) research and innovation programs and request that these programs are given high priority as you consider the Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. While we support a robust clean energy R&D portfolio with programs and investments across the spectrum from basic science to applied demonstration projects, we are specifically writing to support three complementary approaches to tackling the critical energy innovation challenges before us: the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) program, Energy Innovation Hubs, and Energy Frontier Research Centers (EFRCs). … “We urge the committee to support significant increases in funding for ARPA-E to enable it to become as transformative and successful as DARPA has been. At current levels, more projects that have the potential to add high value to the ARPA-E portfolio are identified than can be funded. Additional funding for ARPA-E would help achieve program goals and expand its impact by supporting a greater breadth of research and helping to accelerate the development of technologies that have demonstrated early-stage success toward private sector investment. For FY 2020, we request $500 million to enable ARPA-E to continue to invest in innovative ideas and to ensure promising technologies have a chance to demonstrate their full potential.” … “America’s innovation history is built on a foundation of robust federal investment in fundamental scientific research. At the same time, the public sector has a deep history of working hand-in-hand with the private sector to bring the fruits of this research to market, address market failures, provide needed expertise, and raise capital for high-payoff, though riskier, projects in which industry would not otherwise invest. Without such partnerships, the stories of the transcontinental railroad, the aviation sector, and biotechnology industries would be dramatically different. As in these past projects, the government has a critical role to play in helping to support and foster the new ideas that will serve as the foundation for the nation’s future energy economy.” A signed copy of the letter can be found here. ###
04.03.2019	This week Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), a member of the House Science Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, led an appropriations request to protect funding for NASA’s Wide Field InfraRed Survey Telescope (WFIRST) mission. The President’s recently-released budget recommended the elimination of the mission, even though it was identified as the top priority on the National Research Council’s most recent astrophysics Decadal Survey in 2010, and is expected to lead to key scientific discoveries related to the origin and evolution of the universe, and potential for life on exoplanets. Rep. Beyer’s letter sought “at least $542 million” for WFIRST in FY2020. “I was disappointed to see the President’s budget again request cuts to key NASA science programs, despite strong support for those missions in the scientific community,” said Rep. Beyer. “I am hopeful that Congress will continue investing in scientific programs and space exploration, which return enormous value to the American people. Several years ago I asked NASA Administrator and former astronaut Charles Bolden what NASA’s constancy of purpose should be, and without hesitation he said ‘science.’ WFIRST and other top scientific priorities at NASA deserve support and funding from Congress, and I will continue to push for the successful development of these missions.” Beyer questioned NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine about funding cuts to NASA education and science programs, including WFIRST, in the President’s budget during a Science Committee hearing this week. A signed copy of the letter is available here, and text of the letter is below. Representative Beyer has served on the House Science Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics since taking office in 2015. He has been a consistent advocate for NASA missions, including the James Webb Space Telescope, which he viewed during a tour of NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, its Earth Science Division, and Virginia’s Wallops spaceport. He was a featured panelist at the Washington Post’s Transformers: Space discussion on the future of space exploration in 2018. *** The Honorable José Serrano The Honorable Robert Aderholt Chairman Ranking Member House Appropriations Subcommittee House Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science on Commerce, Justice, and Science H-307, The Capitol 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairman Serrano and Ranking Member Aderholt: As Members with a strong interest in U.S. leadership in space, we thank the subcommittee for its commitment to funding key NASA programs. We write to specifically urge you to include at least $542 million in FY 2020 appropriations for NASA’s Wide Field InfraRed Survey Telescope (WFIRST) mission. WFIRST will provide unparalleled views of the outer solar system, planets around other stars, the stellar populations of nearby galaxies, and distant galaxies throughout the universe – leading us to compelling scientific discoveries related to dark energy and exoplanets, and thereby allowing us to maintain U.S. scientific leadership. Currently under development at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, WFIRST is intended to have the sensitivity of the Hubble Space Telescope with 100 times the field of view, to allow us to better study the areas of dark energy, exoplanets, and galactic astrophysics. The data from WFIRST’s mission will allow astronomers to answer some of the most high-priority scientific questions facing humanity, related to the origin and evolution of the universe, and the potential for life on planets around other stars. For these very reasons, the National Academy of Sciences ranked WFIRST as the highest priority large space mission during its last Astrophysics Decadal Survey in 2010. The project is set to launch in 2025 from Cape Canaveral, and requires robust ongoing funding to meet the project schedule. Accordingly, for FY2020, we are requesting at least $542 million for the WFIRST mission. We thank the subcommittee for continuing to fund the WFIRST mission, and for its ongoing commitment to science. In order to maintain our leadership in space and assist in answering these integral scientific questions, we urge the committee to provide robust funding for WFIRST again this year. Thank you for your consideration of this important program. Sincerely,
04.02.2019	Today, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Debbie Dingell (D-MI) led a coalition of 94 Democrats in a letter to the House Appropriations Committee calling for robust funding for the Endangered Species Act (ESA) listing, planning and consultation, species conservation and restoration and recovery process. The lawmakers cited the need for continued support for the ESA process due to the 480 U.S. listed species that still lack recovery plans, along with the hundreds of species that receive zero federal or state recovery funding. The Members wrote: “As you consider the fiscal year 2020 Interior and Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations, we urge you to support robust funding for Endangered Species Act (ESA) listing, planning and consultation, species conservation and restoration, and recovery process, all of which have been systemically and severely underfunded for many years. “In enacting the Endangered Species Act of 1973, Congress recognized that imperiled species of wildlife, fish, and plants “are of esthetic, ecological, educational, historical, recreational, and scientific value to the Nation and its people.” The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) employ, to great effect, a suite of mechanisms to carry out the law’s aim of conserving endangered and threatened species and the habitat upon which they depend. Their efforts have successfully prevented the extinction of 99 percent of all species listed as threatened or endangered under the Act. … “The need for increased recovery funding is evident from the more than 480 U.S. listed species that lack recovery plans and the hundreds of species that receive zero dollars in recovery funding from any agency – federal or state. Congressional appropriations for recovery and consultation have simply not kept pace with the number of listed species or the complex challenges of conservation in a world facing the consequences of climate change. Inadequate funding not only puts at risk the recovery of threatened and endangered species and conservation of their habitats; it also impedes FWS and NMFS’s ability to apply the best scientific knowledge available in a timely review of listing decisions for species in need of protection.” A signed copy of the letter is available here.
04.02.2019	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement to mark Equal Pay Day, the day on which a woman’s earnings, on average, catch up to those of a man for the previous year: “For the first time since I was elected to Congress, this Equal Pay Day we have a House of Representatives taking action to address the pay gap,” said Rep. Beyer. “I was proud to testify in support of the Paycheck Fairness Act, to champion it in debate on the House Floor, and to vote for its successful passage. I very much hope that the Senate will take up this legislation to promote equal pay, and in the mean time I will continue working with my colleagues in the House to do everything we can to empower women, including securing paid leave and affordable health Rep. Beyer testified in the House Committee on Education and Labor’s hearing on the Paycheck Fairness Act, and was an original cosponsor of the bill. Representative Beyer hosts an annual women’s conference in his district focused on women’s empowerment and professional development, featuring advice for women in the workplace from successful businesswomen. He joined with Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) to hold a gender parity forum in 2017, and worked with her to introduce the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act and the Gender Diversity in Corporate Leadership Act.
03.28.2019	Today, U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) and Congressman Don Beyer (D-Va.) introduced the Healthy Climate and Family Security Act. This ‘cap and dividend’ approach is a simple, fair, and effective plan to address the dangers of climate change. It would put more money in the pockets of hardworking Americans, increasing their spending power and growing our entire economy. “The dangers of climate change are front and center in our everyday lives and only getting worse — we must take real steps to fight back. The Healthy Climate and Family Security Act caps the amount of carbon emissions, requires polluters to pay, and transmits the proceeds straight into the pockets of American families in the form of a dividend. This bill will spur economic growth and encourage the development of clean technologies. I urge Congress to take up this measure immediately – it’s clear this issue can’t wait,” said Senator Chris Van Hollen. “The Healthy Climate and Family Security Act is the kind of bold action we need to help save the planet. Our market-based approach to putting a price on carbon would help the US economy adapt quickly by reducing carbon and embracing clean energy. Since we last introduced this legislation, the threat of climate change is worse and the need for bold action more imperative. We also see a sharp rise in engagement on this issue and growing support for ambitious solutions, and I believe our bill deserves a prominent place in that discussion,” said Congressman Beyer. The Healthy Climate and Family Security Act caps carbon pollution and reduces CO2 emissions gradually but steadily. The legislation would cap emissions at 50 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 and then 80 percent below 2005 levels by 2040 — in keeping with the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change finding. It auctions carbon pollution permits to the first sellers of oil, coal, and natural gas into the U.S. market, and returns 100 percent of the auction proceeds electronically each quarter to every American in the form of a Healthy Climate Dividend. A University of Massachusetts Amherst study found a ‘cap and divided’ approach would mean more than 80 percent of families would see more money in their pockets, even before taking into account the economic benefits of preventing the costly impacts of climate change. The dividend approach has received bipartisan support. Earlier this year, a bipartisan group of economic experts including Ben Bernanke, Alan Greenspan, Janet Yellen, George Shultz, Paul Volcker, and Lawrence Summers penned an op-ed in support of putting a price on carbon and giving the dividends to every American. The Washington Post also called this ‘cap and dividend’ proposal “elegant and effective” for its simple and market-based approach.
03.27.2019	Today, members of the National Capital Region Congressional Delegation sent a letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development requesting $150 million in federal funding for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA). This funding is part of a federal-state partnership between the federal government, Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia established by the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 (PRIIA), which provides $300 million annually for Metro’s capital budget. “WMATA is a $40 billion asset to the National Capital Region and is essential to the operation of the federal government, with federal employees representing approximately 40 percent of Metrorail’s peak period customers,” the members wrote. “Unlike other transportation networks in the nation, the WMATA system serves a unique vital national security role for the federal government, providing transportation for thousands of federal employees traveling to and from the Pentagon, Department of Homeland Security facilities, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation headquarters.” “There is an active, bicameral effort underway to improve and reauthorize PRIIA to maintain the federal government’s necessary contribution to the national capital’s transit system,” the members added. “However, without continued federal participation this successful funding partnership would unravel, leaving a massive shortfall in WMATA’s capital budget.” The sustained federal-state partnership over the course of the last decade has enabled the system to meet critical safety capital needs including: · $1 billion in railcar acquisitions and facilities investments, including the acquisition of new 7000 series railcars; · the award of a $100 million contract to install a 700 MHz radio system to improve communications of public safety personnel; · the replacement of second generation track circuits as identified by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) to upgrade the train control system; · and the now completed SafeTrack program which rehabilitated, replaced, and restored sections of track infrastructure. “We respectfully request that the Subcommittee provide WMATA with $150 million in capital funding in Fiscal Year 2020,” the members concluded. The letter was signed by Representatives Gerald E. Connolly, Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Don Beyer (D-VA), Anthony Brown (D-MD), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Jennifer Wexton (D-VA) and David Trone (D-MD). The full letter is available here.
03.27.2019	Today Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Jennifer Wexton (D-VA), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) condemned the FBI’s failure to answer a series of basic questions posed by former Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley about its 16-month investigation into the shooting of Bijan Ghaisar. The Members of Congress said: “It boggles our minds that the FBI took three months to send such a brief letter which says essentially nothing to the former Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. This is not an acceptable way for public servants to treat Members of Congress or the people we represent, especially when we are over sixteen months without receiving the most basic details about what happened to Bijan Ghaisar. “The Justice Department and the FBI’s refusal to provide transparency and accountability about a fatal police shooting is shocking. Every day that goes without answers in this case further erodes the trust that justice can be done. Bijan’s family deserves better. “We thank Senator Grassley for his efforts to establish the truth. We will not let this matter rest until we find out what happened.” Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) previously sent a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray in December seeking updates on the investigation; this week’s response from an Assistant FBI Director came after a delay of three months. Reps. Don Beyer, Jennifer Wexton, Gerry Connolly and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton have long sought answers in the Bijan Ghaisar shooting case on behalf of the Ghaisar family.
03.27.2019	Rep. Don Beyer today voted for H.R. 7, the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation introduced by Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) to the persistent wage gap between women and men. The bill would require employers to account for pay disparities, ban retaliation against workers who discuss wage levels, enhance workers’ abilities to join lawsuits challenging pay discrimination, and improve Labor Department tools for enforcing the Equal Pay Act. The final bill passed with bipartisan support. “Today the House took a big step forward on equal pay for women,” said Rep. Beyer. “This historic legislation to reduce the wage gap and increase fairness in the workplace is long overdue. The Paycheck Fairness Act will help American women and the millions of families which depend on them, and I’m so proud to have helped pass it.” Rep. Beyer previously testified in the House Committee on Education and Labor’s hearing on the Paycheck Fairness Act, and was an original cosponsor of the bill. The final passage included an amendment which was offered by Rep. Beyer and adopted with overwhelming support from both parties to require businesses with 100 or more employees to report compensation data and demographic information for each 12 month period. Representative Beyer hosts an annual women’s conference in his district focused on women’s empowerment and professional development, featuring advice for women in the workplace from successful businesswomen. He joined with Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) to hold a gender parity forum in 2017, and worked with her to introduce the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act and the Gender Diversity in Corporate Leadership Act.
03.15.2019	Today, Senators Tom Carper (D-Del.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), along with Representatives Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Don Beyer (D-Va.), Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) and Lou Correa (D-Calif.), released the following statement urging Guatemala’s Supreme Electoral Tribunal, the country’s highest authority on elections, to allow all qualified candidates to run in the upcoming presidential election set to be held in June 2019. Last month, the members traveled to five-day delegation trip to Central America on which they saw firsthand the difficult and dangerous conditions, including lack of rule of law, that force so many migrants to flee and seek safe haven at the U.S. Southern border. “Just weeks ago, we traveled to the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador to examine the root causes of migration to our Southern border, including lack of economic opportunity, endemic violence, corruption and lack of rule of law. While there, we spoke with many Guatemalans who are rightly concerned about corruption and who are eager to elect the candidate of their choosing in free and fair and open election coming up in June. “This Sunday evening is the deadline for candidates to register with the Electoral Tribunal in Guatemala in order to be allowed to run. A fundamental aspect of any functioning democracy is the ability of any candidate who meets the necessary requirements to run and for the people to select the candidate of their choosing freely. Given the importance of this election in Guatemala, we call on the Electoral Tribunal to certify each and every candidate who has met the requirements without delay. “Investments made by the U.S., through our support of the Alliance for Prosperity, can help to address root causes of migration in these countries, but our efforts alone are not sufficient. Only the institutions in the Northern Triangle countries can fully restore the rule of law. A chance to do just that in Guatemala is coming up in two days, and the Electoral Tribunal should seize this opportunity.”
03.08.2019	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today voted in favor of H.R. 1, the For the People Act, which passed the House on a party-line vote. H.R. 1 is a sweeping package of election reforms which would crack down on voter suppression, protect elections, get money out of politics, strengthen ethics rules, and fight corruption. H.R. 1 also included the text of Beyer’s Pre-Registration of Voters Everywhere (PROVE) Act, a bill that would allow 16- and 17-year-olds to pre-register to vote in federal elections and would authorize grants to states to promote youth civic engagement, which was adopted through amendments offered by Beyer and Rep. Joe Neguse (D-CO). “Today I voted with my Democratic colleagues in favor of restoring power to the people,” said Rep. Beyer. “The measures in H.R. 1 to revitalize America’s democracy include some of the boldest election reforms in a generation. I am proud that the final version included the text of my bill, the PROVE Act, which would give a huge boost to civic engagement among young people. The legislation we just passed would do so much good for the country, and I strongly urge our Senate colleagues to take it up with all possible haste.” Rep. Beyer was an original cosponsor of the For The People Act, and has supported the bill in every session of Congress since he was elected. Beyer re-introduced the PROVE Act last week in conjunction with a Senate companion offered by Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL).
03.08.2019	Shortly after a hearing yesterday on protections for the endangered North Atlantic right whale, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Chris Smith (R-NJ) introduced the Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection Act, which would protect marine life and coastal economies which depend on it by banning seismic airgun blasting in the Atlantic Ocean. “The seismic pulses from airgun blasts threaten the aquatic species many coastal communities depend on, including the majestic North Atlantic right whale, which sadly is on the verge of extinction,” said Rep. Beyer. “Marine life and ocean biodiversity are essential not only to coastal environments, but to local and regional tourism, recreation, and fishing industries. That is why elected leaders, business owners, and local communities in every state on the Atlantic seaboard oppose offshore drilling and seismic blasting. Congress should listen to them and pass this bill.” Petroleum companies use seismic blasting in their surveying process, but the practice has significant, adverse effects on marine species, including the critically endangered North Atlantic right whale. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management recently renewed permitting for seismic airgun blasting after the Obama Administration a moratorium on blasting and drilling in the Atlantic. The Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection Act would halt the practice. “Seismic airgun blasting disrupts our fragile marine ecosystems, and is a first step in offshore oil and gas exploration and drilling which significantly threatens our commercial fishing industry and coastline,” said Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ). “We must continue to push bipartisan legislation to prevent seismic airgun blasting, and work to protect our coastal waters, beaches and wetlands and all whose livelihood depends upon them.” Natural Resources Committee members yesterday got a demonstration of the harmful effects of seismic blasting in a hearing yesterday at which Rep. Joe Cunningham (D-SC) set off an 120 dB airhorn, and then pointed out that the sound generated by seismic blasting is 16,000 times as loud and carries for as much as 2,500 miles. Beyer, who received a waiver to participate in the hearing, followed Cunningham’s point up with lengthy questioning of a NOAA Administrator about the effects from such blasting on marine life. Congress has expressed bipartisan opposition to oil and gas exploration in the Atlantic Ocean in recent years, citing environmental consequences and opposition from coastal communities and military leaders. The ASAP Act had dozens of cosponsors representing nearly every state on the Atlantic seaboard in the previous session of Congress. Text of the bill is available here. Since taking office Rep. Beyer has been a staunch opponent of offshore drilling and a leader in “The Bipartisan Fight for Quieter Oceans.” He served on the House Committee on Natural Resources from 2015-2018.
03.06.2019	Today, Congressman Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08), Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton (VA-10) joined with federal employees, workers’ rights advocates, and unions to introduce legislation that would provide 12 weeks of paid family leave for federal employees. The Federal Employee Paid Leave Act (FEPLA) would guarantee paid leave for all instances covered by the FMLA, which currently only guarantees unpaid leave. “I’m proud to stand with my colleagues and with advocates to introduce this bill, which is long overdue,” said Congressman Steny Hoyer. “Hardworking federal workers deserve paid parental leave to bond with their children and acclimate to parenthood. Doing so benefits not only these employees and their families but also helps our nation recruit and retain the most competitive and talented workers into public service.” “Paid family leave for federal employees isn’t just the right thing to do, it’s the smart thing to do,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “Paid family leave improves productivity, reduces turnover, boosts morale and attracts and retains more talent, which is exactly what our federal workforce deserves right now. We’re the only developed country in the world without some sort of paid leave policy. That needs to change. I’m proud to introduce the Federal Employee Paid Leave Act to give our federal employees 12 weeks of paid family leave and honored to have the support of Leader Hoyer, Congressman Beyer, and Congresswoman Wexton, along with our amazing advocates for families and federal employees.” "It’s a travesty that the U.S. government comes in last among developed nations when it comes to paid parental leave,” said Congressman Don Beyer, “a benefit critical to starting a healthy family. Forcing new parents to choose between their child and a paycheck is an archaic practice that needs to end.” “I have tens of thousands of federal workers in my district, the most of any freshman member of Congress, so I’m especially proud to cosponsor the Federal Employee Paid Leave Act. Not only is this legislation sound economic policy—it is critical that we stand up for federal workers,” said Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton. “Federal workers just endured the longest government shutdown in history, working long hours for no pay for 35 days. Especially in the face of a hostile administration, the past few months have been understandably demoralizing for our federal workforce. If we hope to attract the best and brightest into public service, we need to support policies like paid leave.” “NTEU welcomes this legislation as a win-win for federal employees and for the federal government. It provides employees with a much-needed ability to care for their families in times of need without sacrificing a paycheck,” said Tony Reardon, National President of the National Treasury Employees Union. “At the same time, federal agencies will benefit by retaining talented employees, and being able to recruit workers for the future. I want to recognize Congresswoman Maloney, Majority Leader Hoyer and Congresswoman Wexton for their leadership in introducing this bill.” “The reality is that we all get sick, care for loved ones, and have or adopt children while we juggle the demands of our jobs,” said Deborah J. Vagins, Senior Vice President of Public Policy and Research at the American Association of University Women. “Yet, it is disproportionately women, who are already making less than their male peers, who still bear the brunt of these responsibilities. When women are forced to take unpaid leave to provide long-term care, it hinders their long-term economic security. As the country’s largest employer, the federal government can help break down the systemic barriers that push women out of the workforce, and instead implement gender-neutral, paid leave that gives all employees the opportunity to flourish. I commend Representative Maloney for leading this effort and introducing the Federal Employee Paid Leave Act.” “There continues to be momentum for paid family and medical leave as lawmakers across the country and leading businesses recognize that paid leave is good for business, workers and the economy,” said Debra L. Ness, president, National Partnership for Women & Families. “It is only right and timely that the federal government follow suit. The expanded Federal Employee Paid Leave Act (FEPLA) goes beyond paid parental leave and would help the federal government – the nation’s largest employer – take a step toward modernizing benefits for the more than 2 million federal employees who serve the public every day and keep our government running. We urge Congress to pass FEPLA, which will help the government attract and retain talented workers and provide our nation’s public servants with the leave they deserve.” “AFGE applauds Representative Maloney for her continuing support of federal employees and their families by extending 12 weeks of paid leave for reasons covered by the FMLA,” said AFGE National President J. David Cox, Sr. “FEPLA recognizes the value of the federal workforce and their family commitments and provides benefits necessary to recruit and retain the talent that is essential for federal agencies to carry out their mission to serve the U.S. public.” “Paid family-leave policies have been shown to enhance the recruitment and retention of young professionals, reduce turnover costs significantly and improve employee morale, all of which are challenges facing the federal government,” said Ken Thomas- National President, NARFE. “The Federal Employees Paid Leave Act supports best practices in human resources management and bolsters the federal government’s ability to compete with the private sector in its ongoing efforts to provide Americans with a top-performing, highly qualified workforce. We are grateful to Congresswoman Maloney for her leadership on this issue and urge Congress to swiftly pass this long-overdue common sense legislation.” The Federal Employee Paid Leave Act (ACT) would guarantee 12 weeks of paid leave: Because of the birth of a son or daughter of the employee and in order to care for such son or daughter. Because of the placement of a son or daughter with the employee for adoption or foster care. In order to care for the spouse, or a son, daughter, or parent, of the employee, if such spouse, son, daughter, or parent has a serious health condition. Because of a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the functions of the employee’s position. Because of any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that the spouse, or a son, daughter, or parent of the employee is on covered active duty (or has been notified of an impending call or order to covered active duty) in the Armed Forces.
03.06.2019	Today, the New Democrat Coalition Climate Change Task Force Co-Chairs Don Beyer, Sean Casten, Elaine Luria, and Susan Wild released their goals for the 116th Congress. The Climate Change Task Force will meet with stakeholders and develop policy positions for the Coalition to advance in both the near term and long term. Climate Change Task Force Mission Statement for the 116th Congress: Climate change is an existential threat to the health, national security, economic prosperity, and future of our people and planet. The New Democrat Coalition Climate Change Task Force seeks to foster a pro-climate agenda that would meet the targets set by the Paris Climate Agreement. Our best shot of hitting these goals is if we use all of the tools and solutions we can get our hands on as we transition to more sustainable and clean energy. We will seek to eliminate barriers to growth for pro-climate businesses, support market based mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas pollution, eliminate clean energy inequities in federal policy, boost resilience, energy innovation, and technologies that address climate change, and promote policies that advance energy efficiency as well as help foster business practices that eliminate energy waste. “The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report was a wake-up call to the scale and speed of the climate crisis, and the New Democrat Coalition wants to be part of the solution. I have been thrilled by the sharp uptick in activism and engagement on this issue, and believe that we must work to provide the big ideas which this moment calls for over the next decade,” said Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08). “I also believe that we need to do everything we can right now to encourage reductions in carbon emissions, both through public policy and through engagement with the business community. I look forward to pressing this issue with my fellow New Dems.” Congressman Sean Casten (IL-06) said, “I was honored to be named co-chair of the New Democrat Coalition Climate Task Force. As our communities, constituents, and businesses are increasingly feeling the impacts of climate change, it is important that we, as Members of Congress, are leading the way in developing solutions to climate change that work for them and are both bold and achievable. I am excited to bring my 20 years of experience in profitably reducing greenhouse gas emissions to the Task Force and look forward to working with my colleagues to find solutions to the existential threat that is climate change.” “I’m honored to help lead the New Democrat Coalition Climate Change Task Force because sea level rise, recurrent flooding, and preventing offshore drilling are real issues that affect daily life in Coastal Virginia,” Congresswoman Elaine Luria (VA-02) said. “I am committed to focusing on these issues and more, as the task force works on commonsense policy fixes to the biggest environmental problems facing America today.” “Climate change is an existential crisis and we are already seeing its devastating impacts from coast to coast. The only way to solve a problem this big is to come together and seek perspectives from people and communities of different backgrounds, regions, and political parties,” said Congresswoman Susan Wild (PA-07). “The New Democrat Coalition Climate Change Task Force is ready to roll up our sleeves and get to work on commonsense policy solutions to reduce carbon emissions and grow our green economy – and I’m proud to help lead this group of innovative, dedicated members.” Climate Change Task Force for the 116th Congress: Co-Chairs: Reps. Don Beyer, Sean Casten, Elaine Luria, and Susan Wild Members: Reps. Julia Brownley, Katie Hill, Annie Kuster, Donald McEachin, Seth Moulton, Debbie Murcasel-Powell, Scott Peters, Dean Phillips, Kathleen Rice, Brad Schneider, Kim Schrier, Darren Soto, and Tom Suozzi ###
03.06.2019	The Acting Inspector General (IG) of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) today informed Rep. Don Beyer and other House Democrats that neither disgraced former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt nor his private attorney ever consulted the EPA Ethics Office regarding his legal defense fund. The OIG letter was written in response to a series of questions about Pruitt’s legal defense fund raised last year by Beyer and Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), and Jamie Raskin (D-MD). Many of those questions remain unanswered. EPA Acting Inspector General Charles Sheehan wrote (emphasis added): “On June 13, 2018, the OIG responded to your request by stating that the concerns raised in your letter should be addressed by EPA ethics officials or the U.S. Office of Government Ethics. We recently followed up with the EPA Office of General Counsel’s (OGC’S) Ethics Office to see whether a determination has been made regarding Mr. Pruitt’s personal actions to establish a legal defense fund, and whether the fund complied with ethics rules. “The OGC’s Ethics Office Informed the OIG that it never had a conversation with Mr. Pruitt or his private attorney about the existence or establishment of a legal defense fund. In addition, no advice was given to Mr. Pruitt about the matter while he worked at the EPA. Based on this information and since Mr. Pruitt left the agency, no further OIG action is warranted.” Rep. Beyer issued the following statement in response: “What we know about the Trump Administration’s contempt for ethics rules designed to prevent corruption keeps getting worse. “In December we learned that the owner of a company in an industry regulated by the EPA made a donation of $50,000 in cash to then-EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s legal defense fund. That donation was not vetted by EPA ethics officials, and now we know that Pruitt never sought advice on this or any other donation to his legal defense fund from their office. “While he ran the EPA, Pruitt accepted large sums of money to pay expenses he would otherwise have paid out of his own pocket without any discussion with the officials at his agency whose job it is to identify potential ethical conflicts in such donations. Such behavior by a senior government official gives the appearance of selling influence, and is an unacceptable violation of the public trust. “Unfortunately, Pruitt’s successor, Andrew Wheeler, has had ethical conflicts of his own, as has Acting Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt. All of these problems ultimately arise from a President who appoints coal and oil lobbyists to run federal agencies, who flouts norms related to his own business conflicts and continues to accept foreign emoluments, and who just yesterday promised to veto ambitious anti-corruption legislation. “Donald Trump has presided over one of the most corrupt administrations in American history, and finds new ways to break his promise to ‘drain the swamp’ every day.” Former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt acknowledged the existence of his legal defense fund in an exchange with Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) during a May, 2018 Senate hearing. Beyer and his colleagues wrote two letters soon afterwards seeking information about the parameters of that fund, and were referred to the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) and the EPA Ethics Office. OGE did not respond directly to their inquiry, but issued guidance reminding federal employees “that they should seek ethics advice before accepting a gift to pay for legal expenses.” That guidance also noted that “agency ethics officials” should review donations “to determine if any of the gifts appear to be from prohibited sources.” Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Tom Udall (D-NM), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) recently pressed Pruitt’s successor, Administrator Andrew Wheeler, for details on Pruitt’s legal defense fund, including questions about EPA ethics review. Rep. Beyer also sought an investigation into Wheeler’s own ethical conflicts soon after Wheeler was named Acting EPA Administrator in July of 2018. The letter from the EPA Office of the Inspector General is available here.
03.05.2019	Today Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) sent a letter to Attorney General William Barr calling on him to open a criminal investigation into reports that Jared Kushner intentionally omitted contacts on his security clearance forms. In the letter, the Members write: We are deeply disturbed by recent reports that President Trump ordered his Chief of Staff, John Kelly, to grant Jared Kushner a security clearance, overruling intelligence officials who raised concerns about the clear national security risks of doing so. Taken together with previous reports that Mr. Kushner omitted contacts with more than one hundred foreign persons on his clearance forms – including the Russian Ambassador – we request that the Department of Justice open an immediate investigation to determine if Mr. Kushner is criminally liable for his false statements. Mr. Kushner and Ivanka Trump have both apparently lied in various public interviews and in statements, saying that the President never directed Kelly to grant a clearance for his son-in-law. In an interview on ABC News’ The View on February 8, Ivanka Trump said, “The President had no involvement pertaining to my clearance or my husband’s clearance – zero.” Lying to the public, though disgraceful and unethical, is not ispo facto a criminal act. Lying on one’s SF-86 Questionnaire for National Security Positions, however, is a federal crime under 18 U.S. Code § 1001 punishable by up to five years in prison. It was previously reported that Mr. Kushner had to submit at least three separate addenda detailing over 100 omissions, including the infamous June 2016 meeting he attended in Trump Tower where Russian agents offered “dirt” on then-candidate Hillary Clinton. He also failed to report his meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey I. Kislyak and the head of Russian-owned bank Vnesheconombank. Chairman Elijah Cummings (D-MD) indicated recently the House Committee on Oversight and Reform has accelerated their investigation into the White House security clearance process. However, there is a strong role for the Department of Justice to play in launching a concurrent criminal probe to safeguard our national security secrets and ensure our laws are being upheld – especially given the fact that Chairman Cummings recently stated the White House has not been cooperative in the Committee’s probe. Ultimately, the President and his son-in-law have made a mockery of the security clearance process. Their actions put U.S. national security at risk and offend the thousands of dedicated career officials who both grant and receive clearances the correct way. As Attorney General, your loyalty is to the United States, not Mr. Kushner or even the President. We look forward to a prompt response and thank you for your attention to this serious matter. Read the full text of the letter here
03.05.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Members of the New Democrat Coalition (NDC) sent a letter to Ways and Means Committee Chairman Neal, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Pallone, and Education and Labor Committee Chairman Scott, urging the Committees to prioritize strengthening the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and continue the path toward affordable universal coverage. “Our constituents elected a Democratic majority in the House by choosing candidates who stood strongly in support of protecting those with pre-existing conditions and bringing down health care costs for all,” the letter reads. “Now that we are in the House Majority, we must follow through on these pledges and take decisive action to tackle rising health care costs.” Specifically, NDC urges the Committees of jurisdiction to work to stabilize the individual health care marketplace; reverse Republican sabotage of the ACA; bring down health care costs for consumers; create a dedicated reinsurance program; create state innovation grants; and provide additional premium assistance. Last Congress, NDC released Solutions Over Politics: Stabilizing & Improving the Individual Market, which offered proposals to create a permanent reinsurance program, reduce healthcare costs for low-income Americans, promote greater insurance coverage, create a greater number of affordable insurance options, and improve the marketplaces. NDC also sent a letter to Senate HELP Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-Wash.) calling for a bipartisan path forward on legislative solutions to reduce health care costs. This letter was led by NDC Healthcare Task Force Co-Chairs Angie Craig, Kurt Schrader, Kim Schrier, and Greg Stanton and the NDC Leadership Members, Reps. Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Annie Kuster (NH-02), Scott Peters (CA-52), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Pete Aguilar (CA-31), Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Ami Bera (CA-07), Jim Himes (CT-04), Chrissy Houlahan (PA-06), b Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11). The letter was signed by 76 New Democrat Coalition Members. The signed letter can be found here and below. ### Dear Chairman Neal, Chairman Pallone, and Chairman Scott: Thank you for the work you have done in your committees exploring ways we can lower health care costs, expand coverage and access, and improve quality of care across the country. Our constituents elected a Democratic majority in the House by choosing candidates who stood strongly in support of protecting those with pre-existing conditions and bringing down health care costs for all. Building upon your work and the work of the New Democrat Coalition last Congress, we urge your committees to deliver on the promises made to our constituents by prioritizing strengthening the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and continuing the path toward universal affordable coverage. First, we believe the House Democratic Caucus should immediately work to stabilize the individual health care marketplace. After years of damage done to the ACA from past Republican Congresses and the Administration, we must start by reversing the sabotage. Junk insurance plans, potentially harmful changes to state innovation waivers, elimination of cost sharing support, and reduced funding for enrollment outreach have only served to make the individual market less stable and uncertain for those with pre-existing conditions. Second, we can also fortify the ACA by taking proactive steps to bring down costs for consumers. For example, the Congressional Budget Office found that the ACA’s temporary transitional reinsurance program reduced premiums by as much as 10 percent. Congress should create a dedicated reinsurance program once more. We also know that expanding health insurance enrollment would strengthen the health care marketplace and lower health care costs for millions of patients. One way to achieve this goal is to create state innovation grants, as was proposed in H.R. 5155, to help states experiment with new ideas such as auto-enrollment and regional exchanges. Additional actions we could take include providing additional premium assistance, providing more options for Americans near Medicare eligibility age, or reforming bidding areas to encourage competition. All of these policy solutions would build upon the success of the ACA and deliver on our promises to constituents to work for them and make real progress toward more affordable and universal healthcare. Now that we are in the House Majority, we must follow through on these pledges and take decisive action to tackle rising health care costs. We know that these issues already have broad bipartisan support, and we urge you to continue your efforts from last Congress. We believe these goals are achievable in the 116th Congress, and the New Democrat Coalition is ready to support you in these efforts. Sincerely,
02.28.2019	U.S Senators Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), along with a group of 15 Senators, re-introduced the Pre-Registration of Voters Everywhere (PROVE) Act today to expand voter registration efforts nationwide and increase American citizens’ participation in their democratic process. The PROVE Act would allow citizens who are 16 and 17 years old to pre-register to vote so they can be added to voter rolls when they turn 18. Representative Don Beyer (D-VA) also introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives today. “The right to vote is a founding tenet of our democracy, and the strength of our democracy depends upon the participation of the American people,” said Duckworth. “Yet, many Americans still face unnecessary barriers when it comes to casting their vote, and voter turnout continues to lag behind that of many other developed nations. We should be doing everything we can to make it easier – not harder – for Americans to access the ballot box. I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bill to help young Americans become more civically engaged. By allowing Americans to pre-register at 16 years old, we have a chance to increase voter participation and strengthen voting rights for Americans across the country.” Young people are already allowed to pre-register to vote in fourteen states beginning at 16 years old – including the District of Columbia – in Illinois, young people can pre-register if they turn 18 by the next election. The PROVE Act would eliminate this discrepancy and nationalize the standard age to pre-register to 16 and 17 years old. This would increase civic participation among young Americans by reducing existing barriers many young people face when it comes to voting in federal elections. Duckworth and Beyer co-authored an op-ed last Congress about how their election reform bill would expand voter participation nationwide. “The more citizens engage in our democracy, the stronger it is. Pre-registration is a proven tool to accomplish that engagement,” said Rep. Beyer. “With this reform, young people will vote more. And young Americans are those who will be most affected by the public policy we make today. As the House takes up election reform, I look forward to consideration of measures such as this one that will make it easier for people to vote.” “Too many Americans face barriers in participating in our democracy. Regardless of party or political background, we should always be working to increase the number of people who vote. The PROVE Act would do just that, ensuring that young people are pre-registered to vote and ready to head to the ballot box when they turn 18 years old,” said Senator Van Hollen. “Maryland has been a national leader on this issue, and this legislation will help move the entire nation forward and ultimately strengthen our democratic process.” “Young people vote at far lower rates than older Americans. We need to do much more to change that and encourage them to participate in the political process. By allowing young people to pre-register to vote at age 16, we will make it easier for them to actually cast ballots once they turn 18,” said Senator Feinstein. Duckworth has been a vocal advocate for strengthening voting rights in Illinois and across the country. Earlier this week, Duckworth joined Senator Gillibrand (D-NY) and six other Democrats to introduce the Voting Rights Empowerment Act, which focuses on improved access to the ballot, increased accountability during elections, and preserving the integrity of the election system. The PROVE Act is endorsed by Common Cause, Fair Vote Action, Head Count, and Rock the Vote. Cosponsors of the PROVE Act include U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Doug Jones (D-AL), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tina Smith (D-MN), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Ron Wyden (D-OR).
02.27.2019	Rep. Beyer this evening voted for H.J. Res. 46, a Joint Resolution sponsored by Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX) to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency. The measure passed with significant bipartisan support in the House and will face a Senate vote within a few days. “My oath of office to support and defend the Constitution required that I must reject President Trump’s fake national emergency,” said Rep. Beyer. “President Trump asked Congress to spend money on a useless wall, which he had previously promised Mexico would provide. The people’s Representatives rejected his request. Article I of the Constitution clearly delegates the power of the purse to Congress, but the President nevertheless decided that he would try to take money over Congress’ objections for his own purposes. I am heartened by my Republican colleagues who joined us in doing our duty to the Constitution, though it is unfortunate that there were so few of them. This should have been an easy call.” Rep. Beyer recently returned from a Congressional Delegation visit to Central America, where he learned from heads of state, law enforcement leaders, and US diplomatic staff about the forces that drive irregular migration to the United States and American efforts to help improve conditions in the region.
02.27.2019	Rep. Beyer today cast his vote for H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019, introduced by Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA). The bill, which would extend a federal requirement of background checks to cover firearm sales from unlicensed sellers including gun shows and internet vendors, passed with bipartisan support. Rep. Beyer said: “At last. “The House just passed some of the most meaningful gun violence prevention legislation in a quarter century. I’m thrilled to have been a part of this effort, which was a long time in coming. “Today is a huge win for the vast majority of the American people who wanted expanded background checks for years, but were blocked by the gun lobby and its allies in Congress. The country wanted change, and the fact that we got this done so early in the year shows how important it was to our Caucus to deliver on this promise. “I want to thank everyone in my district and across the country whose hard work made this historic moment possible. Thank you for your efforts, which I hope you will continue. We have much more work to do together to end the epidemic of gun violence in the United States.” Beyer cast his vote while wearing a pin presented to him by his constituent Carmen Lodato, of Alexandria, to honor the memory of her mother Ruthanne, a victim of gun violence. Rep. Beyer has been a vocal advocate for legislation to prevent gun violence since taking office in 2015. He is a lead cosponsor of the Extreme Risk Protection Order Act, an original cosponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban, and the author of the Keeping Guns from Criminals Act. He participated in the 2016 House Sit-In, and is a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.
02.26.2019	Rep. Beyer today sent a letter to Federal Aviation (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta seeking expedited action in response to requests for flight path modifications requested by the DCA Working Group. Beyer’s support for the requests seeking changes to south flow departures were part of his longstanding attempts to reduce airplane noise in Northern Virginia communities. Beyer wrote: “I understand that the FAA has been reviewing the DCA Working Group’s request and has been discussing proposals with the Working Group for a new south flow departure procedure aimed to mitigate noise by flying planes further down the Potomac River before their turn west, and I appreciate this effort. Nonetheless, I remain concerned with the length of time this has taken, and the lack of real action in implementing new procedures. “On June 6, 2017, when you last wrote in response to my inquiry into the matter, you assured me that the FAA would ‘do [its] best to hit the 12-18-month publication dates for south flow changes once formal design begins, though it is possible the work could stretch to 24 months’ depending on a variety of factors. As I understand, the formal design began in August 2016. Now, in mid-February 2019, it has been 30 months that the community has been waiting.” Full text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. Hon. Michael P. Huerta Administrator Federal Aviation Administration U.S. Department of Transportation 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Administrator Huerta, I write to inquire about the status of the FAA’s response to the Reagan National Community Noise Working Group’s (DCA Working Group) request to modify flight paths and possibly waypoints south of DCA. The DCA Working Group made this request to the FAA on August 11, 2016, and the community continues, over two years later, to wait on FAA’s response while enduring pervasive airplane noise. I understand that the FAA has been reviewing the DCA Working Group’s request and has been discussing proposals with the Working Group for a new south flow departure procedure aimed to mitigate noise by flying planes further down the Potomac River before their turn west, and I appreciate this effort. Nonetheless, I remain concerned with the length of time this has taken, and the lack of real action in implementing new procedures. On June 6, 2017, when you last wrote in response to my inquiry into the matter, you assured me that the FAA would “do [its] best to hit the 12-18-month publication dates for south flow changes once formal design begins, though it is possible the work could stretch to 24 months” depending on a variety of factors.[1] As I understand, the formal design began in August 2016. Now, in mid-February 2019, it has been 30 months that the community has been waiting. I hear directly from members of the community regularly that the airplane noise has not ceased or been alleviated, and the community and I remain eager to see the new planned procedures, and continue working alongside the FAA towards quieting our skies. I urge you to move this process along as expeditiously as possible, and to provide an updated timeline for the publication dates of south flow modifications. I know you understand the importance of addressing airplane noise in our communities, and I appreciate your continued effort on this front. [1] Letter from FAA Administrator Huerta to Congressman Beyer on June 6, 2017, attached.
02.26.2019	Rep. Don Beyer today voted for the Natural Resources Management Act, a bipartisan conservation bill including a permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund for which he long advocated. The public lands package included a large number of bills which came through the House Natural Resources Committee for consideration during Beyer’s four-year tenure on that committee. The House passed the legislation, which already passed in the Senate, with strong bipartisan support, and it now will go to the President’s desk for signature. “Passing this bill is a huge win for every American who loves the outdoors,” said Rep. Beyer. “Permanent reauthorization of the Land and Water Conservation Fund will do so much to give states and agencies tasked with environmental conservation the resources they need to protect our country’s public lands. It took years to get us to this point, but this bill was worth the wait.” Representative Beyer served on the House Committee on Natural Resources, which has jurisdiction over public lands, from 2015 to 2018. He was the House sponsor of the Outdoor Recreation Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in 2017, and serves as Co-Chair of the Appalachian Scenic Trail Caucus. He is the only Member of Congress to have worked as a ranger for the National Parks Service.
02.15.2019	The Congressional Safe Climate Caucus this week welcomed nine new members into its ranks for the 116th Congress. With these new additions, the Safe Climate Caucus is officially 61 members strong. “We are honored to welcome our new members to the Safe Climate Caucus. As the Trump administration walks us back years in the fight to protect the environment and public health, the American people need committed public servants who will stand up to the White House and fight for action on the moral issue of our time: climate change. We will continue to show the world that the United State has leaders who are still willing to lead on climate and find bold solutions to address this generational crisis,” said co-chairs Reps. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) and Don Beyer (VA-08). New members include: · Gil Cisneros (CA-39) · Deb Haaland (NM-01) · Katie Hill (CA-25) · Ro Khanna (CA-17) · Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) · Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01) · Harley Rouda (CA-48) · Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP) · Frederica Wilson (FL-24) The Congressional Safe Climate Caucus is composed of over 60 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives who are dedicated to highlighting and taking meaningful action on climate change. The Caucus believes that they have an obligation to raise awareness on climate change science, impacts and solutions, and strives to work with all Members of the political spectrum to address the realities of a changing climate.
02.14.2019	Today US Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA) and Jamie Raskin (D-MD) introduced the End Shutdowns Act, legislation to prevent a future government shutdown. Beyer and Raskin represent districts with two of the highest concentrations of federal workers and contractors in the country, which were hit hard by the recent shutdown. “Government shutdowns are destructive for the federal workforce and the country, and no good ever comes from them,” said Rep. Beyer. “The President and Congress need to be able to resolve their differences without resorting to threatening to damage the country on purpose. In the wake of the longest shutdown in history, the time has come to permanently end the threat of future shutdowns.” “We need to make sure that our federal workforce and our people are never held hostage again by a President hellbent on shutting down the government to have his way in a policy fight,” said Rep. Raskin. “The End Shutdowns Act is a big step forward. The End Shutdowns Act would fill any lapse in appropriations with an automatic continuing resolution, and then bar the House from considering further legislation other than mutually-agreed-upon emergencies, until Congress agrees on a government-funding measure. The bill (text available here) is the House version of legislation offered by Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA).
02.14.2019	Tomorrow, one year after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, Reps. Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-01) and Don Beyer (VA-08) will introduce the Extreme Risk Protection Order Act. The bipartisan bill encourages states to allow family members or law enforcement officials to petition a judge to temporarily remove firearms from an individual in crisis. Through establishing a new grant program, the bill would help ensure that law enforcement or family members can seek an Extreme Risk Protection Order (ERPO) or Gun Violence Restraining Order (GVRO) from the courts, to temporarily stop someone who poses an immediate threat to themselves or others from purchasing or possessing a gun. States that adopt these preventative measures would be eligible to receive federal funding under the grant program to help pay for the implementation and processing. U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein will also introduce the companion Extreme Risk Protection Order Act in the Senate. “I lost my older sister to suicide with a firearm at a young age,” said Carbajal. “What I’ve learned since is that temporarily preventing people from having a gun while in a state of crisis, and giving our law enforcement the right tools to address dangerous behaviors, saves lives. On the anniversary of the horrific shooting at Stoneman Douglas High School, we are once again reminded that of our responsibility to act in Congress to help prevent the next mass shooting.” “Giving family members and cohabitants the right to petition a court to have a firearm removed from someone found to be dangerous should not be controversial,” said Fitzpatrick. “This process protects Second Amendment rights by ensuring due-process rights are respected during the judicial process. We must work together and take steps to address gun violence and I’m proud to join Reps. Carbajal, Deutch, and Beyer to re-introduce this legislation.” “As we’ve seen in Florida and other states, extreme risk protection orders work,” said Deutch. “This is an important live-saving tool to allow law enforcement officers to intervene before a dangerous person used their firearms against others. This is a sensible gun safety proposal with bipartisan support, and I hope we can move swiftly to pass it and help give every jurisdiction the tools needed to intervene and save lives.” “One year ago, the country lost 17 students and teachers in Parkland to gun violence because multiple warning signs failed to prevent a mass shooting,” said Beyer. “The Extreme Risk Protection Order Act could have stopped this tragedy from happening and saved those lives. ERPOs give families and law enforcement a vital tool to stop those who pose a threat to themselves or others from having access to guns, and they are already saving many lives in the states that have adopted it. It is rare to have legislative solutions that could prevent disasters of the scope of Parkland or Virginia Tech, and rarer still to have bipartisan support for those measures. Both are the case for this bill. Congress should pass it with all possible haste.” Background: The Extreme Risk Protection Order Act would encourage states to take the following steps to help prevent gun violence: Enable families and law enforcement to go to court to seek an extreme risk protection order to temporarily stop someone who poses a threat to themselves or others from purchasing a firearm; Enable courts to issue a warrant that would allow law enforcement to take temporary possession of firearms that are in an individual’s possession if the court determines that the individual poses a threat to themselves or others; and Ensure that law enforcement makes full use of all existing state and local gun databases when assessing a tip, warning, or request from a concerned family member or other close associate. Currently, just 13 states have ERPO laws in place. The 2014 shooting in Isla Vista, CA, near the University of California, Santa Barbara, prompted the passage of an ERPO law in California that same year. Similarly, Florida passed ERPO legislation one month after the Parkland, FL shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. Read the full bill text here.
02.13.2019	Today, the Chair of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Chair of the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works Tom Carper (D-DE), Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) and co-chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus Don Beyer (D-VA), led two letters sent to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers urging an extension of the comment period for the proposed rule to replace the 2015 Clean Water Rule (WOTUS). Over 160 Representatives signed the House letter, while 36 Senators signed the Senate letter. "Americans depend on clean water for their health and livelihoods. Today, more than 117 million Americans - in both large cities and small and rural towns - obtain their drinking water from the same streams and waterbodies made more vulnerable to pollution under the Trump administration's proposed rule. Yet, despite this impact, the administration proposes only a 60-day comment period on this proposed rule. We believe this period is far too short to allow the countless Americans directly impacted by this endeavor to understand fully its magnitude and to make their voices heard on the proposal, if they so choose," wrote the House Members. "Virtually every industry relies on clean water, and these interests-along with all Americans-want to know which waters are covered by federal law and regulation. Given that your agencies have opted to affect the interests of these constituencies, every effort should be made to provide sufficient time for comment," wrote the Senators. The Members request that the Administration extend the comment period for the WOTUS replacement to the existing Clean Water Rule to at least the same duration as offered by the Obama administration in establishing that Rule - 207 days (April 21-November 14, 2014). That public comment period, first established for 90 days and extended twice in response to extension requests, yielded more than a million comments from concerned individuals and families. To read the full letter from the House Members, click here. To read the full letter from Ranking Member Carper, click here.
02.08.2019	Today, Representative Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), joined by Reps. José E. Serrano (NY-15), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), and Jesús “Chuy” García (IL-04) introduced a critical legislative package to protect immigrant rights. “President Trump has made the targeting of immigrants a central part of his administration’s policies while persistently lobbing bigoted, verbal attacks at immigrant communities,” said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13). “What we witnessed during the State of the Union address was more of the same – criminalizing immigrants, promoting inhumane policies that separate children from their families and raid sensitive locations such as public schools and courthouses. My colleagues and I are introducing this series of bills, a legislative package that will protect immigrants, immigrant families, and hold the Trump administration accountable.” “Individuals in this country should be able to access places essential to their health, education, and welfare – like hospitals, churches and schools – without fear of deportation or separation from their families. We’ve seen an alarming number of deportation cases that originated at these locations in recent years. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act will ensure immigrant families remain able to access crucial health care, the place they worship, and schools without fear of sudden and unwarranted deportation,” said Rep. José E. Serrano. “The Trump administration’s continued assault on immigrants is inhumane and un-American,” said Rep. Suzanne Bonamici. “As a mother, it breaks my heart to think of the thousands of children who have been torn away from their parents. With these bills, we can immediately reunite those families and prevent further harm to them and others. We will be able to preserve video records of any incident involving immigration agents. And we can stop ICE from targeting immigrants at courthouses, which is deterring vulnerable people from reporting crimes and seeking protective orders, civil justice, or police assistance. This important package of legislation will provide much-needed transparency, oversight, and accountability for the anti-immigrant forces in this administration.” “Since Donald Trump took office I have witnessed the ‘American carnage’ of his attacks on immigrant families first hand,” said Rep. Beyer. “I heard from tearful fathers who told me harrowing stories about having their children torn away from them. I met with young children in my district whose mother was deported for driving with a broken tail light. I stood with community leaders who were outraged by ICE shakedowns at a hypothermia shelter in a place of worship, a violation of standing policy. Americans overwhelmingly want humane immigration policies, and this legislation would help bring checks to Trump’s out-of-control nativist policies,” said Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08). “This administration took infants, toddlers and children from their mothers and fathers with no plan to reunite them. I’ve met with separated parents detained in federal prison and visited the border and spoken directly with parents and children torn apart by this administration’s zero tolerance, zero humanity family separation policy. It was heartbreaking: I will never forget the cries of the mothers, calling for their children to be brought back to them. The REUNITE Act ensures the immediate reunification of the thousands of children still separated from their families. This isn’t politics, this is about what’s right and wrong. Families belong together, plain and simple,” said Rep. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07). “Immigrant families, including those in my district, deserve to live and walk in their neighborhoods without the fear of being detained and deported at school, places of worship or the doctor’s office. We will require that families separated at the border be reunified immediately, receive legal counsel and will require that parents are constantly updated about their children until they are reunited. Finally, we can keep ICE and CBP agents accountable by requiring them to wear body cameras to protect the civil and human rights of the immigrants they arrest and detain. The three legislative proposals we are introducing today will address very important problems created by Trump’s inhumane polices,” said Rep. Jesús “Chuy” García. The bills, which were first introduced in 2017 and 2018, seek to prevent a number of the Trump Administration’s most egregious immigration enforcement tactics and protect the rights of immigrants in the United States. One of the bills, the Protecting Sensitive Locations Act, will prohibit immigration enforcement in certain “sensitive locations” such as courthouses, schools, community centers and houses of worship, a tactic for targeting vulnerable immigrant communities that has become common under the Trump Administration. Another measure, the Reunite Every Unaccompanied Newborn Infant Toddler and Other Children Expeditiously (REUNITE) Act, would require the immediate reunification of children who were separated from their parent or legal guardian as a result of the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy. Finally, the ICE and CBP Body Camera Accountability Act would require Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Patrol officers to wear body cameras and would make footage available for any legal proceedings. The proposals have been endorsed by a number of leading advocacy groups outlined below: Reunite Every Unaccompanied Newborn Infant Toddler and Other Children Expeditiously (REUNITE) Act: Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum; Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP); Church World Service; First Focus Campaign for Children; Franciscan Action Network; Hispanic Federation; League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC); Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service; Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition (MIRA); Moms Rising; National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd; National Council of Jewish Women; National Immigration Law Center; NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice; New York Immigration Coalition; Ounce of Prevention Fund Protecting Sensitive Locations Act: American Civil Liberties Union; Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum; Asian Pacific Institute on Gender-Based Violence; Association of Asian Pacific Community Health Organizations ; Causa Oregon; Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP); Children’s Aid NYC; Church World Service; Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd, US Provinces ; Empire Justice Center; Farmworker Justice; FIRM Action; First Focus Campaign for Children; Franciscan Action Network; Futures Without Violence; Guttmacher Institute; Hispanic Federation; Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights (ICIRR); Lawyers for Children; League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC); Legal Aid Society (New York); Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition (MIRA); Moms Rising; National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd; National Alliance to End Sexual Violence; National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum; National Association for College Admission Counseling; National Association of Social Workers (NASW); National Council of Jewish Women; National Domestic Violence Hotline; National Education Association; National Health Care for the Homeless Council; National Housing Law Project; National Human Services Assembly; National Immigration Law Center; National WIC Association; Neighborhood Defender Service of Harlem; NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice; New York Immigration Coalition; Oregon Interfaith Movement for Immigrant Justice; Ounce of Prevention Fund; Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law; Service Employees International Union; Share Our Strength, No Kid Hungry Campaign; Sisters of Mercy of the Americas – Institute Justice Team; The Bronx Defenders; T'ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights; Virginia Coalition of Latino Organizations (VACOLAO); Women’s Refugee Commission; YWCA USA ICE and CBP Body Camera Accountability Act: American Civil Liberties Union; Church World Service; Franciscan Action Network; Hispanic Federation; League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC); Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition (MIRA); Moms Rising; National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd; NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice; New York Immigration Coalition
02.08.2019	Today, U.S. Representatives Brad Schneider (D-IL), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Don Beyer (D-VA), Daniel Webster (R-FL), Tom Suozzi (D-NY) and Paul Cook (R-CA) introduced bipartisan legislation to help families grieving the loss of a child take time off work. H.R. 983, the “Parental Bereavement Act of 2019” or the “Sarah Grace-Farley-Kluger Act” would add “death of a child” as a life event that would qualify for unpaid leave under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), allowing a grieving parent up to 12 weeks to mourn a child’s loss and then return to work. The FMLA currently mandates up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for certain family events, including the birth of a child, during which an employer cannot terminate an employee who qualifies for such leave. The legislation was introduced this week marking the 26th anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act, which was signed into law on February 5, 1993. “The death of a child is a loss like no other, yet our current laws leave no time for parents to grieve and begin the recovery process,” said Rep. Schneider (D-IL). “I am proud to introduce this legislation making commonsense improvements to the Family and Medical Leave Act so employees can take the unpaid time off they need to care for their families and heal following such a tragic loss. I am particularly inspired by the families in whose memory this bill is named, who have turned the pain of the loss of a child into advocacy on behalf of other families facing the same unimaginable tragedy.” “There is no greater loss then the death of a child,” said Rep. Gosar D.D.S (R-AZ). “As conservatives, we believe families are the foundation of our nation. Expanding the FMLA to include parental bereavement is common sense, fair and long overdue. I’m proud to work with my colleagues to provide the some relief to grieving parents and a positive change to our current system.” “Expanding the FMLA to include parental bereavement is the most compassionate action we can take to do something, no matter how small, to help bereaved families,” said Rep. Beyer (D-VA). “This legislation is a good start to make a positive change and I’m proud to support it.” “Family and life are some of our most precious gifts,” said Rep. Webster (R-FL). “As a father and grandfather, I cannot fathom the grief that comes with the loss of a beloved son or daughter. Updating the Family and Medical Leave Act to allow employees protected time-off to grieve their tragic loss is the right thing to do.” “No parent should be denied the right or opportunity to grieve for their child. Many parents who experience this sort of tragedy may never recover,” said Rep. Tom Suozzi (D-NY). “It is time to pass this common-sense legislation, which will allow families the time off from work they need to recover following a devastating loss. I am especially passionate about this bill, because it is named after the child of my constituents. Who, since losing their daughter to cancer, have worked so hard to ensure that other parents are able to properly cope with the same tragedy.” “This is a common-sense expansion of the Family Medical Leave Act,” said Rep. Cook (R-CA). “Losing a child is a catastrophic life-altering event and parents should be afforded the time they need to grieve and heal. I’m pleased to be part of this bipartisan effort and hope Congress takes up the bill soon.” The legislation is endorsed by The Farley-Kluger Initiative—a movement which began in 2011 to amend FMLA to include parental bereavement. “On behalf of grieving parents, and in memory of Noah and Katie Farley and Erica Kluger, we thank the sponsors of this bill for their compassion and common sense approach to American workers who suffer the loss of a child,” said Kelly Farley and Barry Kluger, authors of the Farley-Kluger Initiative. “This legislation will enable those who suffer this tragedy to take the time necessary to deal with this loss and be productive colleagues and employees, not to mention stronger family members.” In addition, the bill is supported by national organizations including: Children’s Bereavement Center Elisabeth Kubler-Ross Foundation First Candle JED Foundation MISS Foundation National Military Families Association Polly Klaas Foundation Red Means Stop Traffic Safety Alliance Share Pregnancy Star Legacy Foundation Full text of the legislation is available online.
02.08.2019	U.S. Senators Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine and U.S. Representatives Bobby Scott, Gerry Connolly, Don Beyer, A. Donald McEachin, Elaine Luria, Abigail Spanberger and Jennifer Wexton released the following statement: “Like other Virginians, we have been devastated by these horrible developments. We are brokenhearted that the actions of Governor Northam and Attorney General Herring have reopened old wounds left by Virginia’s long history of slavery, Jim Crow segregation, and systemic racism. There’s no question that Virginians’ faith in their government and leaders has understandably been deeply shaken. “We have each publicly called for Governor Northam to resign. “Yesterday, we were shocked and saddened to learn of the incident in the Attorney General’s past. The Attorney General has earnestly reached out to each of us to apologize and express his deep remorse. We understand that he is currently engaged in in-depth discussions with leaders and others in Virginia. The Attorney General must continue those conversations, and stand ready to answer questions from the public if he is to regain their trust. “We are deeply disturbed by the account detailing the alleged actions of Lieutenant Governor Fairfax. We believe these allegations need to be taken very seriously, and we respect the right of women to come forward and be heard. “We will continue in dialogue with one another and our constituents in the coming days, and evaluate additional information as it comes to light.”
02.08.2019	Today, Representatives Jared Huffman (D-CA), Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Don Beyer (D-VA) and 56 other representatives introduced the “Still-In Resolution,” a bipartisan House Concurrent Resolution to reaffirm that Congress remains committed to the Paris Agreement to combat climate change. In response to President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement, this House Concurrent Resolution has a simple, but strong, message: Congress is Still In. Climate change threatens the state of both our nation and the world and requires an international solution. In response to this global challenge, the United States should play an indispensable role in providing the global leadership and clarity needed by making a firm promise to stay in the historic Paris Agreement. In addition to Reps. Fitzpatrick and Beyer, the Resolution is cosponsored by Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Ed Case (D-HI), Sean Casten (D-IL), Judy Chu (D-CA), Gilbert Ray Cisneros (D-CA), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Katie Hill (D-CA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Hank Johnson (D-GA), William Keating (D-MA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Andy Levin (D-MI), Mike Levin (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Tom Malinowski (D-NJ), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), James McGovern (D-MA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Scott Peters (D-CA), Katie Porter (D-CA), David Price (D-NC), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Harley Rouda (D-CA), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (I-MP), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Josh Harder (D-CA), Bill Foster (D-IL), David Cicilline (D-RI), and Susan Wild (D-PA).
02.07.2019	Today, Congresswoman Annie Kuster (NH-02), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02), a member of the House Education and Labor Committee, introduced legislation to protect Americans with pre-existing conditions by preventing the promotion of junk health plans, which often lack protections for these Americans. The Protecting Americans with Pre-existing Conditions Act (HR 986) would revoke Section 1332 guidance released by the Trump Administration’s U.S. Department of Health and Human Services on October 22, 2018, which weakened protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. “The Trump Administration has done its very best to undermine the Affordable Care Act and access to quality healthcare for millions of Americans,” said Congresswoman Kuster. “The ACA was a watershed piece of legislation that ensured protections for those who had been denied access to health insurance in the past because of pre-existing conditions. Our legislation would help to ensure that those protections do not fall victim to partisan attacks. I’m committed to working with my colleagues to strengthen and improve access to quality, affordable health insurance for all Americans.” “This legislation would fight back against the Trump Administration’s ongoing attempts to sabotage the country’s health care system,” said Congressman Beyer. “Our bill would undo some of the worst Republican attacks on protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions, which have already contributed to higher healthcare costs for millions of families. House Democrats have made a commitment to fight for more affordable health care and that is exactly what we are seeking to do.” “Time and time again this Administration has eroded key ACA consumer protections that are the bedrock of the law,” said Congressman Courtney. “The 1332 guidance the Administration issued further degrades the original intent of the ACA by creating a backdoor to provide Americans with coverage that doesn’t meet the law’s standards and weakens protections for people with pre-existing conditions. I applaud Congresswoman Kuster’s introduction of the Protecting Americans with Pre-Existing Conditions Act, which would restore the original intent of the law, protect the integrity of the health care exchange market, and access to care for those who rely on it.” The legislation has been endorsed by: Families USA American Lung Association American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Epilepsy Foundation American Heart Association The text of H.R. 986 The Protecting Americans with Pre-existing Conditions Act is available HERE.
02.05.2019	This evening Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) will welcome Everett Kelley, who serves as the National Secretary-Treasurer for the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), as his guest for the President’s State of the Union Address. AFGE is the largest federal employee union in the United States, with hundreds of thousands of members. “As President Trump comes to the Capitol to deliver his State of the Union Address, hundreds of thousands of federal workers are anxiously waiting to find out whether he will again choose to shut down large segments of the federal government,” said Rep. Beyer. “Many of the thousands of federal employees represented by AFGE are among those whose lives were turned upside down by the recent shutdown. I know National Secretary-Treasurer Kelley and the civil servants I represent will be listening closely to hear whether the President will give any consideration to federal employees in his speech tonight.” Everett Kelley has been an AFGE member since 1981, and served as AFGE’s National Secretary-Treasurer since 2018. More biographical details are available here. Congressman Don Beyer represents nearly 87,000 federal employees, the largest number of any Member of the House of Representatives. The Senate companion version of his legislation to grant furloughed federal employees affected by the shutdown back pay was signed into law earlier last month, and he was an original cosponsor of recently-passed House legislation to give a raise to the civilian federal workforce.
02.02.2019	Representatives Gerry Connolly (D-VA) and Don Beyer (D-VA) released the following statement today calling on Governor Northam to resign: “We expected Governor Northam to resign this morning. Nothing we have heard since changes our view that his resignation is the only way forward for the Commonwealth. “Virginia has a painful past where racism was too often not called out for its evil. The only way to overcome that history is to speak and act with absolute moral clarity. It is for that reason the Governor must step aside and allow the process of healing to begin."
02.01.2019	Today Rep. Don Beyer (VA-08) was named Co-Chair of the Climate Change Task Force for the New Democrat Coalition, along with Reps. Sean Casten (IL-06), Susan Wild (PA-07), and Elaine Luria (VA-02). The Climate Change Task Force will provide the New Dem perspective on combating climate change and building the green economy. Rep. Beyer plans to use his position on the task force to advocate for action on the climate crisis, and fight for solutions that spur economic growth and enhance climate resiliency. “I am both excited and honored to lead the New Democrat Coalition Climate Change Task Force. Climate change is a generational crisis that warrants action from all political perspectives,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “The New Dems have a strong reputation for reaching across the aisle to get things done, and I’m ready to work with my colleagues to find commonsense policy solutions for one of the biggest challenges facing Americans today.” The New Democrat Coalition is made up of over 100 forward-thinking Democrats who are committed to pro-economic growth, pro-innovation, and fiscally responsible policies. New Democrats are a solutions oriented coalition seeking to bridge the gap between left and right by challenging outmoded partisan approaches to governing. New Democrats believe the challenges ahead are too great for Members of Congress to refuse to cooperate purely out of partisanship. “The New Democrats are about finding innovative solutions to complicated issues,” said Rep. Suzan DelBene, Vice-Chair for Policy. “The American people have said they want Congress to get things done. With this talented group, we’re committed to finding the best ideas to expand our middle class and create opportunities for hardworking families in this new economy.” Representative Beyer recently received a waiver to return to the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, where he will sit on the Environment, Oversight and Space Subcommittees. He also served two terms on House Natural Resources before joining the House Ways and Means Committee for the 116th Congress. Rep. Beyer is the co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus and has sponsored carbon-pricing cap and dividend legislation to combat climate change. He was a top critic of EPA Administrator of Scott Pruitt in Congress, and has been a leader in the fight against offshore drilling from the House of Representatives.
01.31.2019	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Ted Lieu (D-CA) today wrote to White House Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney seeking the immediate revocation of Senior White House Adviser Jared Kushner’s security clearance. The letter followed an NBC report that career White House security professionals initially rejected Kushner’s clearance application before being overruled by a “quasi-political supervisor.” They wrote: “We urge you to immediately revoke the security clearance of Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner, and to comply with past and future oversight requests from Congress related to security clearances, information security, and other matters of national security. … “On January 24, 2019, a report from NBC revealed that ‘Jared Kushner's application for a top-secret clearance was rejected by two career White House security specialists after an FBI background check raised concerns about potential foreign influence on him — but their supervisor overruled the recommendation and approved the clearance.’ That story goes on to note that ‘Kushner's FBI background check identified questions about his family's business, his foreign contacts, his foreign travel and meetings he had during the campaign.’ This is the very issue we warned about in April 2017, before the events described in this report transpired. … “The White House’s pattern of hiding the truth and devious behavior with regard to Mr. Kushner’s security clearance suggests that the Administration does not take information security seriously. This problem is underscored by NBC’s reporting that ‘Kushner's was one of at least 30 cases in which Kline overruled career security experts and approved a top-secret clearance for incoming Trump officials despite unfavorable information.’ “Members of Congress are now placed in the impossible position of wondering who these 30 officials are that received clearances despite being rejected by the career security officials, what the ‘unfavorable information’ was in their records, and why they still have ongoing access to sensitive national security information. … “In July 2017, we also asked a series of questions regarding the status of White House Senior Advisor Ivanka Trump’s security clearance. These questions, too, remain unanswered by the Trump Administration, even as new reports suggest that Special Counsel Robert Mueller is asking witnesses about Ivanka Trump’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project. “The President of the United States has a responsibility to the people who put him in office that should outweigh his personal business and familial interests. The ongoing refusal of the Administration to abide by longstanding security clearance processes, coupled with its unwillingness to explain its actions to Members of Congress, increasingly seems like a coverup.” Beyer and Lieu cited their previous letters raising numerous concerns with Kushner’s SF-86, and with the status of Kushner’s fellow Senior White House Adviser Ivanka Trump. The NBC report noted that there as many as 30 other cases in which career security officials recommended a clearance be denied to an incoming Trump appointee before being overruled by their supervisor. The text of their letter is below, and a signed copy may be viewed here. January 31, 2019 The Honorable Mick Mulvaney Acting White House Chief of Staff The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. Mulvaney: We urge you to immediately revoke the security clearance of Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner, and to comply with past and future oversight requests from Congress related to security clearances, information security, and other matters of national security. We have held serious concerns about the implications of granting Jared Kushner a security clearance since the President took office, given Mr. Kushner’s track record of “omitting” meetings, relationships, and business interests that tie him to foreign officials from his SF-86 clearance application. [1] We raised these concerns in five separate letters to the Trump Administration dated April 13, 2017; [2] June 1, 2017; [3] October 5, 2017;[4] March 14, 2018;[5] and June 5, 2018.[6] The White House has yet to address any of these issues, and new reporting suggests that there has been an intentional, concerted effort within the Executive Office of the President to cover for Jared Kushner in the face of similar objections raised by the career professionals who evaluate appointees’ suitability for security clearances. On January 24, 2019, a report from NBC revealed that “Jared Kushner's application for a top-secret clearance was rejected by two career White House security specialists after an FBI background check raised concerns about potential foreign influence on him — but their supervisor overruled the recommendation and approved the clearance.”[7] That story goes on to note that “Kushner's FBI background check identified questions about his family's business, his foreign contacts, his foreign travel and meetings he had during the campaign.” This is the very issue we warned about in April 2017, before the events described in this report transpired. The White House’s pattern of hiding the truth and devious behavior with regard to Mr. Kushner’s security clearance suggests that the Administration does not take information security seriously. This problem is underscored by NBC’s reporting that “Kushner's was one of at least 30 cases in which Kline overruled career security experts and approved a top-secret clearance for incoming Trump officials despite unfavorable information.” Members of Congress are now placed in the impossible position of wondering who these 30 officials are that received clearances despite being rejected by the career security officials, what the “unfavorable information” was in their records, and why they still have ongoing access to sensitive national security information. We have been given no relevant information from the White House, despite our repeated requests enumerated above, despite the unanimous passage of the SECRET Act in Congress—which required the White House to send us a report explaining its process for evaluating security clearances by August of last year[8] —and despite repeated public debacles like the Rob Porter scandal. In July 2017, we also asked a series of questions regarding the status of White House Senior Advisor Ivanka Trump’s security clearance. [9] These questions, too, remain unanswered by the Trump Administration, even as new reports suggest that Special Counsel Robert Mueller is asking witnesses about Ivanka Trump’s involvement in the Trump Tower Moscow project.[10] The President of the United States has a responsibility to the people who put him in office that should outweigh his personal business and familial interests. The ongoing refusal of the Administration to abide by longstanding security clearance processes, coupled with its unwillingness to explain its actions to Members of Congress, increasingly seems like a coverup. We request swift action to address these concerns. Thank you for your attention in this matter. Sincerely, [1] Ellen Nakashima et. al., “Russian Ambassador Told Moscow That Kushner Wanted Secret Communications Channel With Kremlin,” Washington Post, May 26, 2017 https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/russian-ambassador-told-moscow-that-kushner-wanted-secret-communications-channel-with-kremlin/2017/05/26/520a14b4-422d-11e7-9869-bac8b446820a_story.html [2] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to FBI Director James Comey, April 13, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/kushner_letter.pdf [3] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to Counsel to the President Don McGahn, June 1, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/beyer_letter_to_white_house_re_kushner_clearance_6.1.17.pdf [4] Reps. Lieu and Beyer, Letter to Counsel to the President Don McGahn, October 5, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/lieu_beyer_ivanka_letter.pdf [5] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, March 14, 2018 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/signed_fire_kushner_letter_3.14.18.pdf [6] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, June 5, 2018 https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/letter_to_wh_re_kushner_and_ivanka_security_clearances__060518.pdf [7] Laura Strickler, Ken Dilanian, and Peter Alexander, “Officials rejected Jared Kushner for top secret security clearance, but were overruled,” NBC News, January 24, 2019 https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/donald-trump/officials-rejected-jared-kushner-top-secret-security-clearance-were-overruled-n962221 [8] Public Law 115-173 https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/3210/text [9] Reps. Beyer et. al., Letter to Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe, July 19, 2017 https://beyer.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Letter_to_FBI_re_Ivanka_SF86.pdf [10] Hunter Walker, “Mueller eyes Ivanka and Don Jr.’s work on Trump Tower Moscow,” Yahoo News, November 29, 2018 https://www.yahoo.com/news/mueller-eyes-ivanka-don-jr-s-work-trump-tower-moscow-003012099.html
01.30.2019	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the Federal Civilian Workforce Pay Raise Fairness Act of 2019, which would give civilian federal workers an across-the-board 2.6 percent raise: “Today the House of Representatives is again leading the way and showing civilian federal workers that they are valued by their country. We also showed that there is a better alternative to the destructive policies of President Trump, who rewarded civil servants’ hard work with a pay freeze, a shutdown, and 35 days of suffering. “The shutdown which just concluded was a major calamity for the country, but I believe it did remind Americans how important their government services and the committed federal employees who provide them are. This pay raise for federal employees is the right thing to do, and I thank Congressman Connolly, Majority Leader Hoyer, and my other colleagues from the National Capital Region for offering it.” Beyer was an original cosponsor of the legislation, introduced by his Northern Virginia colleague Rep. Gerry Connolly. Congressman Don Beyer represents nearly 87,000 federal employees, the largest number of any Member of the House of Representatives. The Senate companion version of his legislation to grant furloughed federal employees affected by the shutdown back pay was signed into law earlier this month.
01.28.2019	Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), joined by Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Anthony Brown (D-MD) and David Trone (D-MD), today wrote the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting it conduct a study of helicopter noise within the Washington metropolitan region. In their letter, the Members wrote, “Many of our constituents live with the impacts of regular helicopter noise that interrupts sleep patterns, causes their homes to shake and negatively impacts their quality of life. While disturbances from helicopter noise have been a longstanding problem for some, others have noted recent increases in the frequency and severity of helicopter noise in their neighborhoods. We understand that helicopter activity is an essential part of law enforcement, military and medical operations and appreciate the critical efforts of employees serving in those sectors. However, we also believe that, through information collection, analysis and coordination, we can identify strategies to minimize the negative impacts of helicopter activity without impeding the work of the agencies operating helicopters within the region.” The Members’ full letter is below. The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General of the United States U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G St. NW Washington, DC 20548 Dear Comptroller General Dodaro: We write to request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) conduct a study of helicopter noise within the Washington metropolitan area. Many of our constituents live with the impacts of regular helicopter noise that interrupts sleep patterns, causes their homes to shake and negatively impacts their quality of life. While disturbances from helicopter noise have been a longstanding problem for some, others have noted recent increases in the frequency and severity of helicopter noise in their neighborhoods. We understand that helicopter activity is an essential part of law enforcement, military and medical operations and appreciate the critical efforts of employees serving in those sectors. However, we also believe that, through information collection, analysis and coordination, we can identify strategies to minimize the negative impacts of helicopter activity without impeding the work of the agencies operating helicopters within the region. We have engaged with constituents, federal agencies and local governments on the problem of helicopter noise in our region. A number of questions have emerged that can only be addressed through a formal study. Among other issues your study may find relevant, we ask that your study include an analysis of the following issues: The types of helicopters that generate the most noise and the make of the helicopters flying over the Washington metropolitan area; Current helicopter flight paths within the Washington metropolitan area, including an analysis of which neighborhoods are most impacted by helicopter noise; The frequency of flights over neighborhoods, including information on each agency operating helicopters, the times of flight and flight altitude; The number of flights that occur during the day and at night; The altitude at which helicopters currently fly within the Washington metropolitan area today compared to the altitude at which helicopters operated within the Washington metropolitan area in the past; Potential causes of the increase in the severity and frequency of helicopter noise in the Washington metropolitan area; The degree of coordination that currently exists among the various government and non-governmental entities operating helicopters in the Washington metropolitan area regarding flight paths, altitudes and other pertinent considerations; and Viable options for noise mitigation, potentially including modifications to current training practices that would reduce the number of training hours that must be completed in the Washington metropolitan area and modifications to night training times so that pilots do not fly when most residents are sleeping. We appreciate your attention to this matter and ask that you respond to our request for a study within 30 days of the date of this letter. Sincerely,
01.25.2019	Virginia’s House Democrats today wrote to the Acting Directors of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) urging them to shield federal employees from negative impacts of the shutdown on security clearances and clearance applications. The letter was signed by Virginia Reps. Don Beyer, Gerry Connolly, Jennifer Wexton, Bobby Scott, Donald McEachin, Elaine Luria, and Abigail Spanberger. They wrote: “We write you out of concern regarding the impact of the now 34-day-long government shutdown on federal employees currently holding or seeking security clearances and determinations of trust at the affected agencies. “Financial considerations are a central piece of the investigation into an employee’s candidacy for a security clearance, as they indicate reliability and trustworthiness, as well as vulnerability to illegal activities… And, notably, financial issues historically outpace all other issues as the chief reason cited for security clearance denial. “Over 800,000 federal employees (essential and non-essential alike) have missed their paychecks due to the government shutdown and will miss a second paycheck tomorrow… Missing even just one of these regular payments can of course be detrimental to employees’ credit scores. It is crucial that we take whatever steps necessary to ensure that the missed paychecks, and wounded credit scores, are not detrimental to their security clearances or security clearance applications as well. “Thus, we urge you to issue new guidance as soon as possible for clearance investigations that explicitly prohibits agencies from penalizing security clearance applicants and holders for shutdown-induced poor credit.” Full text of the letter is available below, and a signed copy is available here. January 24, 2019 The Honorable Russell Vought Acting Director, Office of Management and Budget Washington, DC The Honorable Margaret Weichert Acting Director, Office of Personnel Management Washington, DC Dear Acting Director Vought and Director Weichert: We write you out of concern regarding the impact of the now 34-day-long government shutdown on federal employees currently holding or seeking security clearances and determinations of trust at the affected agencies. Financial considerations are a central piece of the investigation into an employee’s candidacy for a security clearance, as they indicate reliability and trustworthiness, as well as vulnerability to illegal activities. Guidelines established for all U.S. government personnel, consultants, and contractors seeking security clearances make this clear. And, notably, financial issues historically outpace all other issues as the chief reason cited for security clearance denial. Over 800,000 federal employees (essential and non-essential alike) have missed their paychecks due to the government shutdown and will miss a second paycheck tomorrow. We have heard from many of these employees—our constituents—about the ensuing struggle to pay bills, including rent and mortgage payments, utility bills, student loans, credit card bills, and much more. Missing even just one of these regular payments can of course be detrimental to employees’ credit scores. It is crucial that we take whatever steps necessary to ensure that the missed paychecks, and wounded credit scores, are not detrimental to their security clearances or security clearance applications as well. Thus, we urge you to issue new guidance as soon as possible for clearance investigations that explicitly prohibits agencies from penalizing security clearance applicants and holders for shutdown-induced poor credit. Sincerely,
01.25.2019	U.S. Representative Don Beyer (VA-08) today released the following statement after Republicans on the subcommittee of the Privileges and Elections Committee in the Virginia General Assembly voted to block the Equal Rights Amendment ratification resolution: “Today, in the oldest legislative body in America, where many of our Founding Fathers served, in a Commonwealth that brought us the Bill of Rights, and elected the first African American Governor, the promise of equality for half the population died in Committee. In the history of the United States, Virginia has played a role in the arc that bends toward justice. This vote, this year: 2019, will be but a footnote in a defining fight for our authentic values as Americans and as citizens of a true democracy. It is not a question of if this Amendment becomes law, only when. “We in Congress stand ready to champion the ERA once it is ratified by a 38th state. We will seize the privilege and responsibility to make equal rights for women and men a fundamental right in our US Constitution.”
01.25.2019	Today Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), who represents more federal employees than any other Member of the House of Representatives, issued the following statement after President Trump’s announcement that he would sign a temporary funding bill to end the partial government shutdown: “I’m grateful that the shutdown will end soon, but I do not understand why it happened at all. “If I understood him correctly, President Trump just agreed to the same deal which Speaker Pelosi offered him in December. Had he done so, the President would have spared the country the longest shutdown in its history. Why did President Trump inflict this shutdown on the country? “He could have spared 800,000 federal employees the suffering caused by missed paychecks, rent payments, medical procedures, and every other deprivation that came with 35 days of no pay. He could have spared the country the scenes of its public sector workers waiting in lines for food banks, airports shut down and tax returns jeopardized, national parks closed, and so many other essential services halted. “This shutdown accomplished nothing. It inflicted extreme pain on the people I represent, and there was no reason for it. As the President approaches the new deadline he just agreed to for the expiration of government funding, he must think of people besides himself. This must never happen again.”
01.24.2019	Congressman Anthony G. Brown (MD-04) released the following statement after introducing legislation to guarantee every federal employee can access unemployment benefits while President Trump keeps the government shut down. The Department of Labor has issued guidance that essential workers are not eligible for unemployment benefits even though they are being required to work without pay. This legislation, H.R. 720, would reverse that regulation and extend much needed relief. “As the shutdown enters its 34th day, it’s unconscionable that the Trump administration is forcing hundreds of thousands of federal employees to work without providing a means for them to support themselves and their families,” said Congressman Anthony Brown (MD-04). “If the President is going to continue to hold federal employees hostage, then we will ensure they are provided for during his shutdown. It’s deeply disturbing the President is proud of the human suffering he has created, and we will do everything we can to provide support and relief.” The Trump administration recently announced that nearly 50,000 additional federal employees - including tens of thousands at the Internal Revenue Service - were designated as essential and were being brought back to work without pay. Those workers will join the 420,000 federal employees that have already been classified as essential and have worked for more than a month without compensation. “I am proud to work with Congressman Brown on this important legislation to provide much-needed relief to the civil servants who are being held hostage by President Trump’s government shutdown,” said Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08). “Almost 87,000 federal employees call my district home, and all of them deserve access to resources that enable them to provide for their families. It’s time for the President to stop using feds as political pawns, end the shutdown, and put government back to work for the people.” A number of states have decided to unilaterally extend unemployment benefits for essential workers, including California, Colorado, Vermont and the District of Columbia. Michigan, New York, Virginia, Washington and other localities have urged the Trump administration to clarify federal workers’ eligibility for unemployment benefits. “Our federal workers are set to miss their second paycheck tomorrow and are scrambling to find ways to feed their families and pay their bills,” said Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL). “Congress needs to step up to ensure federal workers have the resources they need to provide for their families for as long as the President continues to hold them hostage. I will continue to work with Representatives Brown and Beyer to call for an end of the Trump shutdown and get our hardworking civil servants back to work.” The bill is cosponsored by the following Members: Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08), Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Congresswoman Elaine Luria (VA-02), Congressman Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Congressman David Trone (MD-06), Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton (VA-10) and Congresswoman Lori Trahan (MA-03). Collectively these members represent more than 355,000 federal employees.
01.24.2019	Virginia Representatives Gerry Connolly, Don Beyer and Jennifer Wexton sent a letter to Washington D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser today opposing a plan by the D.C. Health Department to unilaterally end a 28-year agreement for the administration of HIV/AIDS funding. Pursuant to the agreement, the Northern Virginia Regional Commission (NVRC) has administered Part A funding from the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act. “We write to express our profound concerns regarding a proposal from the District of Columbia to upend the administration of Ryan White Part A funding in our region, which we believe could harm care and services for HIV-positive residents of Northern Virginia,” the members wrote. “We urge you to pursue a collaborative approach that accommodates the needs and input of Northern Virginia stakeholders.” “We believe the unilateral decision by the District of Columbia to terminate its relationship with NVRC is not in keeping with the letter or intent of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act (P.L. 101-381),” the members added. “Given the statutory requirements of the Ryan White CARE Act and NVRC’s commitment to delivering quality care for HIV/AIDS patients, we request that you reverse the decision to unilaterally end this longstanding arrangement by which Ryan White funding and services are provided to Northern Virginia residents.” NVRC Commissioners previously sent a letter to the Mayor in opposition to the proposal from the D.C. Health Department. The Commissioners stated in their letter “sincere and profound concern regarding a proposed action by the District of Columbia that will have a significant negative impact on the health outcomes of more than 2,000 residents of our region and Virginia who are served by the Ryan White Part A program as HIV/AIDS-affected individuals and families.” The Representatives’ letter is available here and text follows. January 24, 2019 The Honorable Muriel Bowser Executive Office of the Mayor 1350 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20004 Dear Mayor Bowser, We write to express our profound concerns regarding a proposal from the District of Columbia to upend the administration of Ryan White Part A funding in our region, which we believe could harm care and services for HIV-positive residents of Northern Virginia. We urge you to pursue a collaborative approach that accommodates the needs and input of Northern Virginia stakeholders. On Tuesday, November 27, the Northern Virginia Regional Commission (NVRC) was informed by the District of Columbia Department of Health that the City plans to end its 28-year agreement with NVRC to serve as the local regional administrator of the Ryan White Part A program in Northern Virginia. The NVRC program serves 2,000 individuals with HIV each year and routinely achieves better client outcomes for viral load suppression and percentage of clients taking AIDS medication than the broader metropolitan region. In 2008, the Whitman-Walker Clinic made a similar decision to close its Arlington location for AIDS treatment and support services. While that was an action taken by a private entity, it was comparable to this latest proposal in that it too was made without consultation with Northern Virginia partners and was carried out to the detriment of our constituents living with HIV/AIDS We believe the unilateral decision by the District of Columbia to terminate its relationship with NVRC is not in keeping with the letter or intent of the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resources Emergency (CARE) Act (P.L. 101-381). This arrangement has been in place for 28 years, and NVRC has successfully administered care for 2.4 million residents of our region, including managing more than $150 million in health care services for low-income, uninsured, and under-insured Northern Virginians with HIV/AIDS. Given the statutory requirements of the Ryan White CARE Act and NVRC’s commitment to delivering quality care for HIV/AIDS patients, we request that you reverse the decision to unilaterally end this longstanding arrangement by which Ryan White funding and services are provided to Northern Virginia residents. We respectfully request that the District of Columbia engage in a collaborative process with NVRC and the local governments of Northern Virginia to determine a consensus path forward that considers first and foremost the care of our constituents with HIV/AIDS. Sincerely,
01.22.2019	Today Congressman Beyer joined volunteers in the World Central Kitchen in Washington, D.C., to serve food to federal employees impacted by the ongoing government shutdown. The shutdown, now in its second month, is the longest in US history. “I’ve never seen anything like this,” said Rep. Beyer. “Having people who should be working in good jobs standing in a line in the freezing cold that wrapped around a building just to get hot meals is like something from the Great Depression, but the crisis inflicting this on them is entirely artificial. The government shutdown has people foregoing medical procedures and prescriptions; our region can’t take much more of this. “I’m immensely thankful for all of the people banding together to help people affected by the shutdown. Today that included Chefs For Feds volunteers at the World Central Kitchen, led by Chef José Andrés, and D.C. Metropolitan Police officers serving meals during their lunch breaks. I’m appalled by the ongoing situation that created this need, but full of gratitude for everyone who is lending a hand to help our community make it through this catastrophe.” Beyer represents nearly 87,000 federal employees, the largest number of any Member of the House of Representatives. He has voted repeatedly to pass bipartisan legislation to end the government shutdown, and the Senate companion version of his legislation to grant furloughed federal employees affected by the shutdown back pay was recently signed into law.
01.16.2019	Today 124 Members of the House of Representatives led by Reps. Don Beyer (VA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Andre Carson (D-IN), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Ilhan Omar (D-MN), and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) introduced the Freedom of Religion Act to prohibit religious discrimination in our immigration system. The legislation was originally introduced in 2016 by Rep. Beyer in response to then-candidate Donald Trump’s Muslim Ban proposal, a version of which remains in effect as the policy of the United States government. “We prioritized introducing this legislation because portions of President Trump’s Muslim Ban remain in force and are at odds with American values and principles,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “From the moment Trump took office, he made it clear that persecuting immigrants and minorities would be the guiding principle of his Administration. This is the same principle which caused him to shut down the government. But from that same moment people who oppose bigotry have opposed his bigoted policies in airports, in the streets, and in Congress. Now we are in a position to use our new majority to oppose Trump’s bigotry with legislation like the Freedom of Religion Act, and I look forward to taking further action on this bill in the 116th Congress.” “Freedom of religion is at the core of American’s founding—the first colonists came here to flee persecution and practice their religious beliefs in peace, and many of today’s refugees come for the same reason,” Congresswoman Norton said. “America’s example as a beacon of light for the rest of the world is diminished by the President’s Muslim ban. This unlawful executive order undermines American security and sends a chilling signal to Muslim American citizens here at home.” “As a daughter of immigrants and a proud Jew, I will never forget where my family came from or the horrors that members of my community have experienced,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. “That is why President Trump’s appalling efforts to build a wall and consistent hostility towards immigrants is so personal to me. Bigotry does not make America great – nor does erecting a 2000-mile wall. This undermines our strength as a country by giving in to fearmongering, hate, and division. Welcoming people of all faiths, and from all regions, is the best way to counter hatred and extremism. Our diversity makes us strong, and our diversity makes us safe. I am very proud to join Rep. Beyer in reintroducing this legislation.” “The Freedom of Religion Act reaffirms our country's fundamental tenets: our Constitutional guarantee of religious freedom and our values of tolerance and pluralism. Discrimination based on religion divides our communities and makes our country more isolated,” Congresswoman Betty McCollum said. “The Freedom of Religion Act will end shameful abuses like President Trump's 2017 executive order barring immigrants and other international visitors from entering the country -- and make it unequivocally clear that the United States will never stand for religious discrimination.” “To turn our back on immigrants betrays our nation's core values,” said Rep. André Carson. “President Trump’s Muslim Ban sends a demoralizing and dangerous message to the world that the United States is no longer a beacon of freedom. This critical legislation ensures that the United States will always be a country that welcomes people of all races, ethnicities, and religions.” “President Trump’s barbaric executive order banning immigrants from certain Muslim majority countries is un-American, and unconstitutional,” said Rep. Pramila Jayapal. “We can’t let this President force his authoritarian agenda on us. I’m proud to co-introduce the Freedom of Religion Act. This is not just an act of resistance against xenophobic policies, but a clear signal to President Trump that we will not let him destroy our Constitution and our American values.” “James Madison, the author of the First Amendment, said America would be a home for people fleeing from religious and political persecution from all over the world. From the beginning, our nation has been populated by waves of immigrants and refugees escaping religious persecution and hostility from theocrats and dictators imposing thought control on their people,” said Rep. Jamie Raskin. “When immigrants set foot in America, they are in a land that does not discriminate against people based on their beliefs about religion, whether they call themselves monotheists, polytheists, pantheists, atheists or anything else. I’m proud to join my colleagues in supporting the Freedom of Religion Act, which establishes in law this founding principle: that our government will not tolerate religious discrimination of any type against immigrants, refugees or visitors to our land.” “We are at a turning point in our history. We must decide whether we stand for liberty and equality or oppression and bigotry,” said Rep. Ilhan Omar. “The Muslim ban is one of this Administration’s most potent symbols of hate—and it is having devasatating consequences on families fleeing hardship. As someone who came to the U.S. from one of the banned countries, I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to end this hateful ban and ensure that we live up to ideals of our nation.” The Freedom of Religion Act has 124 original co-sponsors, and the support of a large number of non-government organizations including American Center for Outreach, American Humanist Association, Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Amnesty International USA, Anti-Defamation League, Asian Law Alliance, Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty, Bend the Arc, California Council of Churches IMPACT, Caring Across Generations, Church World Service, Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights – CHIRLA, Columban Center for Advocacy and Outreach, Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), CREDO, Disciples Center for Public Witness, Disciples Justice Action Network, EMGAGE USA, Equal Partners in Faith, Franciscan Action Network, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Habonim Dror North America, HANA Center, Human Rights First, Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights, Interfaith Alliance, Islamic Society of North America, J Street, Just Foreign Policy, Justice & Compassion Ministries, Cal-Pac Conference of the United Methodist Church, Leadership Conference of Women Religious, LULAC, Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition, Mennonite Central Committee U.S. Washington Office, Muslim Advocates, Muslim Community Network (MCN), Muslim Public Affairs Council (MPAC), NAFSA: Association of International Educators, NAKASEC, NAPAFASA, National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, National Center for Lesbian Rights, National Council of Jewish Women, National Employment Law Project, National Immigration Forum, National Justice for Our Neighbors, National Religious Campaign Against Torture, NETWORK: Advocates for Justice, Inspired by Catholic Sisters, OCA – Asian Pacific American Advocates, OneAmerica, Peace Action, People For the American Way, Presbyterian Church (USA), Refugee & Immigration Ministries, Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), Secular Coalition for America, Services, Immigrant Rights & Education Network (SIREN), Shoulder to Shoulder, T’ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights, Tacoma Community House, The Interfaith Center of New York, Unitarian Universalist Association, Welcoming America Text of the Freedom of Religion Act can be found here.
01.15.2019	Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Don Beyer (VA-08) and Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-07) today acted to provide relief to federal employees affected by the partial government shutdown by introducing H.R. 545, the Financial Relief for Feds Act. This bill will allow federal employees and contractors to withdraw funds from their retirement accounts without being penalized. Original cosponsors of H.R. 545 include Reps. Randy Weber (TX-14), David McKinley (WV-01), David Trone (MD-06), Kendra Horn (OK-05), Collin Allred (TX-32) and Anthony Brown (MD-04). “Hardworking federal employees and contractors at federal facilities like Johnson Space Center shouldn’t suffer because the federal government can’t do its job,” Rep. Pete Olson said. “Families of federal employees should not become casualties of partisan politics in Washington. This simple adjustment will allow them to access funds to provide financial stability during a stressful period they have no control over. I urge Congress to pass this bill quickly to provide needed relief to federal employees.” “The only way to fully stop the damage being done by this shutdown is to reopen the government, but until that happens Congress should do everything in its power to help federal workers who are affected,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “This bipartisan legislation would give families flexibility to help manage bills that cannot wait, and I am proud to join my colleagues Congressmen Olson and Perlmutter in introducing it.” “This continued shutdown is jeopardizing the livelihoods of the hardworking men and women who work for our country. Missing paychecks puts a terrible strain on households,” said Rep. Ed Perlmutter. “Families should be able to dip into additional savings and retirement funds without penalty in order to keep up with regular bills and expenses during this difficult time.” The Financial Relief for Feds Act allows furloughed federal employees, “essential” federal employees working without pay and contractors whose sole source of earned income is their federal contract to make a withdrawal from their retirement savings accounts without the 10% penalty that normally applies. That includes not only Thrift Savings Plans (TSP) but also accounts such as IRAs. Individuals will be able to make multiple withdrawals from their TSP without penalty and will be allowed to recontribute the money to their accounts once the government reopens.
01.11.2019	Today the House of Representatives passed the Senate companion version of legislation offered by Rep. Don Beyer to guarantee back pay to federal employees affected by the partial government shutdown. The House approved the bill with near-unanimous support from both parties. “This bill is a critical step towards undoing some of the damage caused by the government shutdown,” said Rep. Beyer. “While this legislation will provide federal employees with the certainty that they will eventually be paid, that cannot happen until the shutdown ends. It is vital that the Senate take up the bipartisan legislation which has already passed previously in both chambers to end the shutdown and reopen the government. Every day this continues will do lasting damage to the federal workforce and the country.” The Senate bill, which has small differences from Beyer’s House legislation but accomplishes the same goals, was introduced by Sen. Ben Cardin (D-MD). It passed in the Senate by unanimous consent on Thursday night after Virginia Senator Tim Kaine worked out an agreement with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to bring the bill to the Senate Floor. McConnell said that he had spoken with President Trump about the legislation, and been assured that Trump would sign it. While the legislation which passed Congress today would cover only employees on the government payroll, Beyer is also a cosponsor of a bicameral bill introduced in the House by Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton to grant back pay to federal contractors. Beyer and other Members of Congress delegation representing the National Capital Region have led the way in advocating for the federal workforce throughout the government shutdown, and have constantly fought back against attacks on federal employees by the Trump Administration and its GOP allies in Congress. Congressman Beyer represents over 80,000 federal employees, the largest number of any Member of the House of Representatives.
01.10.2019	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) announced today that he has received an appointment to the powerful House Ways and Means Committee, one of the five exclusive House committees. Ways and Means has a wide breadth of jurisdiction, including health care, trade policy and tariffs, and oversight of Medicare and Social Security. It is the House Committee directly responsible for writing tax legislation, and the oldest standing committee in the United States Congress. Beyer said: “I am thrilled to accept this appointment to the House Committee on Ways and Means. “Ways and Means must lead the way on a carbon pricing program, and I am excited to serve on the Committee which will help develop this and other policies to address climate change. Ways and Means will also take the lead on reorienting 21st century capitalism, which, undergirded by our tax system, is primarily delivering for the wealthiest among us. This is the committee tasked with preserving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid for future generations while funding fully universal healthcare that leaves no Americans behind. Additionally, in this next Congress, the committee will play a critical oversight role of an administration prone to scandal, as well as tax and financial opacity. “I believe my experience from 44 years building a family business from eight employees to 320 has given me valuable insight into the best ways to support a modern workforce, and my service as Lieutenant Governor of Virginia gave me an important perspective into the impact of federal fiscal policy on my constituents. My service on the Joint Economic Committee has increased my expertise in many of the policy areas under the jurisdiction of Ways and Means. “This is a moment of extraordinary challenge for the country, and I am grateful to have this chance to work with Chairman Neal on crafting progressive solutions to problems facing the American people. I thank my colleagues for this position, and my constituents in Virginia’s 8th District for sending me back to Congress.” The House Committee on Ways and Means will be Chaired in the 116th Congress by Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA). The last Virginia Representative to serve on the panel was Republican Majority Leader Eric Cantor, and it has not had a Democratic Member from the Commonwealth of Virginia for over two decades. Rep. Beyer previously served as the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and is co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus. He has also served on the House Committee on Natural Resources and the Joint Economic Committee. He previously served two terms as Virginia's Lieutenant Governor, and as President Obama’s Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein from 2009 to 2013.
01.08.2019	Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) today reintroduced her bill to guarantee back pay to low-wage federally contracted retail, food, custodial and security service workers not getting paid during the current federal government shutdown (fiscal year 2019). Norton introduced a version of the bill during the last government shutdown, and has introduced it in past Congresses whenever a threat of a government shutdown loomed. She said she was particularly pleased to introduce her bill with the following Members as original cosponsors: Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-WA), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Grace Meng (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Ayanna Pressley (D-MA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Lori Trahan (D-MA), David Trone (D-MD) and Jennifer Wexton (D-VA). Norton said she is encouraged that a group of U.S. senators introduced a companion Senate bill. Norton is also an original cosponsor of a bill to provide back pay to federal employees who are furloughed during a shutdown. “Low-wage federal contract workers can least afford to be penalized by President Trump’s shutdown,” Norton said. “Unlike federal employees, who have always been made whole after a shutdown, many low-wage workers, who are the focus of our bill, earn little more than the minimum wage and receive few, if any, benefits. And, unlike many other contractors, those who employ low-wage service workers have little latitude to help make up for lost wages. We must act to ensure that low-wage, federally contracted service workers are not put at a unique disadvantage by the Trump shutdown.”
01.04.2019	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today hailed House passage of the legislative text of his bill to give back pay to federal employees in agencies affected by the partial government shutdown, which was included in a larger appropriations package that passed the House of Representatives last night with bipartisan support. He also addressed President Trump’s threat to continue his government shutdown for “months or even years.” Beyer said: “Federal workers are used to being treated horrendously by this President and GOP leaders in Congress, but House Democrats have now demonstrated in our first days on the job that we are prepared to use our majority to shield them from his worst designs. “Yesterday I joined my colleagues in passing legislation on a bipartisan basis to reopen the government and end the Trump shutdown. The spending package which we passed included the legislative text of my bill to give back pay to federal employees affected by the shutdown. I thank my colleagues for supporting this bill, and House Democratic leaders for including it in the appropriations legislation. “Democrats from the National Capital Region also succeeded in ending the Holman Rule, which House Republicans had used to try to punish civil servants over political disputes, and joined our colleagues in passing a bipartisan provision to undo the Trump pay freeze for federal workers in 2019. We are delivering positive results for our constituents and the millions of civilian federal workers who run the government. “Meanwhile Donald Trump refuses to budge on his demands that taxpayers waste billions on a wall that he repeatedly promised Mexico would pay for. He is keeping the government closed and forcing hundreds of thousands of federal workers to work without pay or remain furloughed. This afternoon, he threatened to extend his shutdown for ‘months or even years.’ Any such closure would do incalculable and lasting damage to the federal workforce, the services they provide to Americans, and the U.S. economy. “Further, even as rank-and-file federal employees face extreme hardship and uncertainty which he has inflicted on them with shutdowns and pay freezes, Trump’s senior political appointees and Vice President Pence are reportedly in line to receive thousands of dollars in raises. This unfair treatment is disgusting and unacceptable. “Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell knows that the government shutdown cannot be allowed to drag on for ‘months or even years’ without bringing on a profound crisis for our country. He can end this shutdown by working with House Democrats to pass the same legislation his own members backed unanimously last month, and he should do so immediately.” Congressman Beyer represents the largest number of federal employees of any Member of the House of Representatives.
01.02.2019	Democrats from the National Capital Region today announced that they have secured the removal of the Holman Rule from H. Res. 6, the Rules package for the 116th Congress. The Holman Rule allows restrictions on federal offices and programs, including the reduction of individual salaries, to be added to must-pass appropriations legislation. Majority Leader-elect Steny Hoyer, Reps. Gerry Connolly, Don Beyer, Anthony Brown, Jamie Raskin, Reps.-elect Jennifer Wexton and David Trone, and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton issued the following joint statement: “With our first votes, House Democrats – led by Members from the National Capital Region – will demonstrate our commitment to restoring support for the federal workforce in Congress. By eliminating the Holman Rule from the House Rules package for the 116th Congress, Democrats will end an underhanded GOP tactic to sneak attacks on federal employees into must-pass bills. “As we remove the Holman Rule, we are also seeking solutions to end Trump’s government shutdown and his 2019 pay freeze for the civil service. Federal employees work in every Congressional district to provide vital services that help keep our nation healthy, safe, and strong, and their ill treatment at the hands of the Trump Administration and Republican leaders is one of the most disgraceful elements of the past two years. That era is now over, and we will continue to ensure that House Democrats use our Majority to fight for feds.” The Holman Rule was originally established in 1876 as part of a contentious fight over civil service reform. It enabled the House to use federal appropriations language to cut individual salaries, programs, or office sizes. The provision was discarded in 1983, but House Republicans revived it at the beginning of the previous session of Congress. They attempted to use the Holman Rule at least twice during that session, without success. Federal employees have been subjected to repeated attacks by President Trump and Congressional Republicans over the past two years. On Friday, the Trump Administration formally froze the pay of the federal workforce for 2019. The news that the Holman Rule would be discarded came as House Democrats announced immediate votes at the beginning of the 116th Congress to reopen the government with a series of spending bills which have already passed in either the full Senate or the Senate Appropriations Committee with near-unanimous bipartisan support. Today is the twelfth day of the partial government shutdown, during which approximately 420,000 federal employees are working without pay and another estimated 380,000 are furloughed. House Democrats, again led by National Capital Region Members, are preparing legislation to authorize back pay for federal workers affected by the shutdown.
12.21.2018	Congressmen Don Beyer and Gerry Connolly today wrote to the Administrator of the General Services Administration (GSA) seeking fixes to problems identified by a General Accountability Office investigative report into asbestos in federal buildings. The report found that the GSA has failed to abide by its own tracking and recording guidelines, including the operation of a tracking database called IRIS, which tracks asbestos surveys in GSA-owned buildings constructed prior to 1998. The Representatives wrote: “As you are aware, GSA’s policy requires that the agency should have an asbestos survey in each building constructed prior to 1998, when asbestos was widely used in building construction, and should enter the results of that survey into GSA’s building inventory database, IRIS. However, according to GAO, asbestos-related survey data was missing for 66 percent of the 436 GSA-controlled office buildings constructed prior to 1998. “In addition, although GSA policy requires annual reinspection of asbestos-containing material in federal buildings to assess their condition and whether they pose a potential health risk, the GSA’s inventory database that is supposed to track this information did not have a data field designed to capture the reinspection information. Adding a data field to properly capture this information should not be a difficult fix. “The GAO recommended that GSA take action to address asbestos-related shortcomings in the agency’s federal building database by: (1) implementing a plan to enter the missing asbestos data (either by obtaining the $550,000 for system upgrades or training additional individuals to use the current database); and (2) adding a mechanism to track the reinspection data for asbestos-containing materials (or ensuring that the aforementioned database upgrade includes this fix). “Failure to make these minor upgrades to the system would be negligent with regard to federal employees’ health and safety. We urge you to prioritize this $550,000 for the database system upgrades in your FY2020 budget request, or make alternative plans immediately so that GSA is fully tracking and recording asbestos in its federal buildings, as required, moving forward.” The GAO report, initially requested by Rep. Beyer in 2017, reviewed documentation from 44 of 436 federal buildings that had asbestos surveys conducted, one of which had no supporting asbestos documentation at all. Although GSA policy requires annual re-inspections of asbestos-containing material in federal buildings to access their condition and whether they pose a potential health risk, the GSA’s building inventory database designed to track this information did not have a data field designed to capture this information. A complete update to the GSA building inventory database would cost an estimated $550,000, which would include between $50,000 and $100,000 for specific asbestos reporting requirement upgrades. However, GAO found that GSA has not yet made any decision to fund the upgrade to the database and GSA currently has no alternative plan in place to capture the critical asbestos data. As GAO concluded in its report, “GSA is not well positioned to oversee the management of asbestos in its facilities.” The GAO recommended that GSA take action to address asbestos-related shortcomings in the agency’s federal building database by entering the missing asbestos survey data and implementing a mechanism to track re-inspections of asbestos-containing material in federal buildings. The GSA concurred with these recommendations. The potential long-term health effects from exposure to asbestos may be profound. In 2015, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that in the United States alone more than 2,500 people died from malignant mesothelioma, a deadly disease linked to asbestos exposure. Asbestos is a building material resistant to fire was widely used in the construction of buildings decades ago. Asbestos related diseases, such as mesothelioma and lung cancer, often develop decades after exposure has occurred. Full text of the letter follows below, and a signed copy is available here.
12.20.2018	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA) today will introduce the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act, legislation to guarantee back pay to furloughed workers in the event of a government shutdown. Funding for the federal government expires at midnight tomorrow. “We do not want a government shutdown, but if it comes our bill would protect federal workers from the worst of the consequences,” said Rep. Beyer. “This legislation is designed to shield civil servants, who need to support their families, from the disastrous effects of failure to agree on a measure to fund the government. We hope it will not be needed, but time is running out and the current outlook is not good.” The bill currently has 66 bipartisan cosponsors. "Federal employees should not be penalized for Congress’ inability to get its job done on time," Rep. Wittman said. "This legislation sends a clear signal to our federal workers that they will not be harmed in the unfortunate event of a shutdown. While this legislation would minimize the impacts of funding uncertainty, my focus remains on returning Congress to a regular schedule of budgeting and passing appropriations bills." Together the two Virginia Congressmen represent nearly 120,000 federal employees. A shutdown would temporarily suspend paychecks for federal employees in affected agencies, and retroactive pay for federal workers must be approved by Congress. The Beyer-Wittman legislation would guarantee that no federal employees would lose pay if a government shutdown occurs. Similar legislation was passed to pay civil servants in the wake of the government shutdown in early 2018. Text of the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act can be found here.
12.14.2018	Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee’s Environment Subcommittee, and Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA), Vice Ranking Member of the Committee, led 96 members in urging President Trump to heed the dire warnings in the second volume of the Fourth National Climate Assessment (NCA) and act on climate change. The NCA is the most comprehensive science-based evaluation of the consequences of climate change, the risks of inaction, and potential adaptation strategies for the United States to date. In a recent Washington Post interview, the President dismissed the NCA’s findings. The Members call on President Trump to reverse his Administration’s attacks on the environment and take climate change seriously. “We write to convey our grave concern that time is running out for the United States to work to reverse and mitigate the worst effects of a warming climate,” the Members write. “We ask that you heed the dire warning of the Fourth National Climate Assessment and work with us to protect the health of our planet. “The NCA adds to the overwhelming research indicating that the consequences of inaction on climate change will be serious and swift. According to the NCA, without intervention, we will see record heat waves, more acidic oceans, raging wildfires, rising sea levels, and a surge in extreme weather events – all in our lifetime. “The National Climate Assessment makes clear that greenhouse gas emissions from human activities are the only explanation for the observed global warming over the last six decades. Carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere are now higher than at any time in the last three million years, and we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions. “Rather than ignoring the important findings of the NCA, we request that you reconsider maintaining the nation’s commitment to the Paris Agreement and fully implement and enforce the Clean Power Plan, fuel economy standards, methane emission controls, and safeguards for clean air and clean water. We urge you to recognize the value of the NCA as a collaborative, peer-reviewed effort across federal agencies compiled by the nation’s top scientists, and take seriously the grave warnings of the NCA by immediately enacting meaningful policies to protect the environment.” You can read a full copy of the Members’ letter here and below. In addition to Bonamici and Beyer, the letter was signed by: Raúl M. Grijalva, Peter DeFazio, Zoe Lofgren, Paul D. Tonko, Gerald E. Connolly, Doris Matsui, Anna G. Eshoo, Jerry McNerney, Kathy Castor, Diana DeGette, Ed Perlmutter, Bill Foster, Charlie Crist, Eliot L. Engel, Bobby L. Rush, Jan Schakowsky, Peter Welch, Ben Ray Luján, Yvette D. Clarke, Scott H. Peters, Debbie Dingell, Matthew Cartwright, Alan Lowenthal, Mike Quigley, Chellie Pingree, A. Donald McEachin, Earl Blumenauer, Daniel W. Lipinski, Marcy Kaptur, Jerrold Nadler, Frederica S. Wilson, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Ted Deutch, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Derek Kilmer, John Garamendi, Alcee L. Hastings, Rosa L. DeLauro, Salud Carbajal, Adam Smith, Barbara Lee, Jared Huffman, Grace F. Napolitano, Emanuel Cleaver II, Daniel T. Kildee, Jamie Raskin, Bennie G. Thompson, Mark Pocan, Sean Patrick Maloney, Dina Titus, Ted W. Lieu, Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr., Seth Moulton, Darren Soto, Betty McCollum, Jimmy Panetta, Adam B. Schiff, Rick Larsen, James A. Himes, Susan Wild, John Yarmuth, James P. McGovern, Albio Sires, Gwen Moore, Nydia M. Velázquez, Adriano Espaillat, Brian Higgins, Terri A. Sewell, Mike Thompson, Tim Ryan, Denny Heck, Joe Courtney, Eric Swalwell, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Stephen F. Lynch, Eleanor Holmes Norton, David N. Cicilline, Mark DeSaulnier, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Ruben Gallego, David Price, Gregory W. Meeks, J. Luis Correa, Lucille Roybal-Allard, José E. Serrano, Brenda L. Lawrence, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Wm. Lacy Clay, Jim Langevin, Steve Cohen, Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan, Judy Chu, Linda T. Sánchez, Joseph Kennedy III, Thomas R. Suozzi, and Susan A. Davis. The U.S. Global Change Research Program released the second volume of the Fourth National Climate Assessment on a holiday weekend as part of a thinly-veiled attempt by the Administration to minimize the findings. Every day until Democrats are in the Majority in the House in January and can take meaningful action on climate change, Bonamici is sharing findings from the National Climate Assessment on Twitter. You can follow along here. As leaders on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Bonamici and Beyer continue to provide oversight over the Trump Administration’s dismissal and disrespect of science. Earlier this year, they led 97 of their colleagues in opposing Acting Administrator Wheeler’s plans to eliminate the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of the Science Advisor, the Agency’s independent office for scientific analysis. Letter Text: December 13, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to convey our grave concern that time is running out for the United States to work to reverse and mitigate the worst effects of a warming climate. We ask that you heed the dire warning of the Fourth National Climate Assessment and work with us to protect the health of our planet. The U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP) released the second volume of the Fourth National Climate Assessment (NCA) on a holiday weekend, which appeared to be in an effort to minimize the findings. It is the most comprehensive science-based evaluation of the consequences of climate change, the risks of inaction, and potential adaptation strategies for the United States to date. The NCA adds to the overwhelming research indicating that the consequences of inaction on climate change will be serious and swift. According to the NCA, without intervention, we will see record heat waves, more acidic oceans, raging wildfires, rising sea levels, and a surge in extreme weather events – all in our lifetime.[1] The United States has the ability and the obligation to lead the world’s efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions, but in June of 2017 you announced plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Accord.[2] As a result, the United States has fallen far behind the pledges made in the Paris Agreement and is unlikely to meet the targets set by 2025.[3] Air and water pollution do not recognize international borders. This decision weakens our standing with international allies and further endangers our planet. According to new research from the Global Carbon Project, global carbon dioxide emissions are projected to increase by 2.7 percent in 2018 alone.[4] As negotiations continue at the 24th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, the United States must show leadership and take meaningful steps to sharply reduce emissions. We should be encouraging states to meet carbon emission reduction standards based on energy consumption, and we should incentivize investment in renewable energy. Fossil fuel-fired power plants, which would continue to pollute under the Environmental Protection Agency’s proposed Affordable Clean Energy rule, would exacerbate and accelerate the effects of climate change. Even the Agency’s own analysis found that the proposed rule will have negative effects on public health, leading to as many as 1,400 additional premature deaths per year.[5] Proposals that increase emissions of dangerous pollutants and harm public health should be resoundingly rejected. Additionally, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation have proposed regulations to roll back our greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards for light-duty vehicles. Transportation is a significant source of greenhouse gas pollution in the country, and fuel economy and vehicle emissions standards are effective policies to combat climate change and avoid adverse public health risks. Climate change and hazardous air pollutants disproportionately affect our most vulnerable communities, and these rules are particularly concerning for those communities. Also, methane has the potential to warm the planet by up to 86 times as much as carbon dioxide.[6] Alarmingly, methane accounts for nearly 10 percent of annual U.S. greenhouse gas emissions.[7] Yet recently, the EPA and the Bureau of Land Management proposed rules to weaken methane leak monitoring and repair requirements for oil and gas operations and eviscerate measures designed to reduce methane venting, flaring, and leaks from oil and gas operations on public lands. These proposals once again demonstrate that the Administration is putting special interests ahead of safeguarding public health and access to clean air and clean water. Finally, the National Climate Assessment makes clear that greenhouse gas emissions from human activities are the only explanation for the observed global warming over the last six decades. Carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere are now higher than at any time in the last three million years, and we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions.[8] Climate change will harm air quality by increasing ground-level ozone and particulate matter, and it will threaten water supplies.[9] Unfortunately, the EPA is also trying to weaken permitting safeguards and eliminate limits on hazardous pollutants, undermine landmark mercury and air toxic standards for power plants, and weaken a clean water rule that protects water bodies that supply drinking water to tens of millions of people. Rather than ignoring the important findings of the NCA, we request that you reconsider maintaining the nation’s commitment to the Paris Agreement and fully implement and enforce the Clean Power Plan, fuel economy standards, methane emission controls, and safeguards for clean air and clean water. We urge you to recognize the value of the NCA as a collaborative, peer-reviewed effort across federal agencies compiled by the nation’s top scientists, and take seriously the grave warnings of the NCA by immediately enacting meaningful policies to protect the environment. Sincerely, [1] "Fourth National Climate Assessment Summary Findings.” U.S. Global Change Research Program. https://nca2018.globalchange.gov/ [2] "Statement by President Trump on the Paris Climate Accord." June 1, 2017. https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/statement-president-trump-paris-climate-accord/ [3] "Emissions Gap Report 2018." United Nations Environment Programme, November 2018. http://wedocs.unep.org/bitstream/handle/20.500.11822/26895/EGR2018_FullReport_EN.pdf?isAllowed=y&sequence=1 [4] “Global Carbon Budget 2018” December 5, 2018. https://www.earth-syst-sci-data.net/10/2141/2018/essd-10-2141-2018.pdf [5] "Regulatory Impact Analysis for the Proposed Emission Guidelines for Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Existing Electric Utility Generating Units; Revisions to Emission Guideline Implementing Regulations; Revisions to New Source Review Program" U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), August 2018. https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2018-08/documents/utilities_ria_proposed_ace_2018-08.pdf [6] “How Bad of a Greenhouse Gas Is Methane?” Scientific American, December 22, 2015. https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-bad-of-a-greenhouse-gas-is-methane/ [7] "Overview of Greenhouse Gases - Methane Emissions." U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/overview-greenhouse-gases [8] "Fourth National Climate Assessment - Chapter 2: Our Changing Climate.” U.S. Global Change Research Program. https://nca2018.globalchange.gov/chapter/2/ [9] "Fourth National Climate Assessment - Chapter 1: Overview.” U.S. Global Change Research Program. https://nca2018.globalchange.gov/chapter/1/
12.11.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s proposal to significantly weaken protections for wetlands and waterways under the Clean Water Act’s jurisdiction: “Trump’s proposed rule to gut the Clean Water Act’s environmental protections for streams and wetlands will put at risk the water sources that tens of millions of Americans depend upon,” said Rep. Beyer. “Trump is again acting to boost the profits of industry magnates and corporate polluters who spent millions to get him elected, while pretending EPA data showing the harm this will do to streams and wetlands simply doesn’t exist. The Dirty Water Rule is a farcical abuse of office which will damage the health of Americans and their environment.” The new definitions of protected waters were announced by EPA Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler, a former coal lobbyist, and embattled Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke.
11.30.2018	Rep. Beyer today called for swift consideration of his bill, the bipartisan Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection (ASAP) Act, following an announcement by the National Marine Fisheries Service that the Trump Administration had formally approved permitting for seismic blasting in the Atlantic ocean. Beyer said: “Coastal states, communities, small businesses, political leaders from both parties, and the United States Navy all stand united in opposition to drilling, seismic blasting, and invasive petroleum exploration in the Atlantic Ocean. Given that the Trump Administration has formally announced its intention to ignore the concerns of residents and stakeholders directly impacted by these actions, it is time for Congress to step in and put a stop to this by passing the Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection Act. Seismic blasting and offshore drilling pose a threat to marine life and the coastal economies which depend on them. There is no justification for intentionally welcoming this kind of damage, particularly at a time when oil prices are low and fossil fuel corporations are posting record profits. President Trump’s decision to push more dirty energy on the country again worsens this Administration’s dangerous disregard for the threat posed by climate change. Since the National Climate Assessment made it clear that climate change is already killing Americans and costing our economy billions of dollars, the President and his Cabinet have spent the week engaging in willful ignorance of scientific findings. The Trump Administration also attempted to bury findings by the US Geological Survey that exploitation of federal lands, including offshore drilling, made up nearly a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions from 2005-2014. By taking new action to increase such emissions, Trump is not merely downplaying the dire threat of climate change, he is actively making it worse.” The Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection Act was introduced in 2017 by Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA) and Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ). The list of bipartisan cosponsors for the bill includes Representatives of almost every state on the Atlantic seaboard. Seismic surveys, which use deafening underwater blasts to help locate petroleum deposits, have been demonstrated to harm marine life, including the endangered North Atlantic right whale. The US Geological Survey report “Federal Lands Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sequestration in the United States: Estimates for 2005–14,” released by the Trump Administration on Black Friday simultaneously with the National Climate Assessment, studied the impact of greenhouse gas emissions from petroleum extraction and other activities on federal lands and waters.
11.26.2018	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today on the National Climate Assessment, after the Trump Administration’s release of that document over a holiday weekend: “The National Climate Assessment makes it clear that climate change is killing Americans now. It also makes it clear that the level of danger will grow over time, that inaction will be far costlier than confronting the problem, and that it is not too late to act. These truths will affect millions of American lives whether Donald Trump believes them or not. From hurricanes in the Atlantic to flooding and droughts in the Midwest to proliferating wildfires in West, it is clear from this assessment that the effects of climate change are undeniable. But we know that there are steps we can take, from mitigating sea level rise, to managing water, to putting a price on carbon. It is disappointing but not surprising that Donald Trump took this product of over a thousand scientists and government officials from the federal, state, and local levels and tried to prevent people from seeing its conclusions. The failure of the White House’s ‘Black Friday news dump’ strategy shows how concerned Americans are about the threat of climate change. They deserve leaders who have the courage to do something about it.”
11.19.2018	Last week, U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Patty Murray (D-Wash.), and U.S. Representatives Don Beyer (VA-8) and Bobby Scott (VA-3), introduced the Keeping All Students Safe Act (KASSA), which would protect students from the dangers of seclusion and restraint. If enacted, the law would establish strong federal standards to prohibit the use of seclusion and to limit restraint in federally funded schools, improve the safety of students and school staff, and ensure parents are informed when their child is physically restrained. Murray is ranking member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, and Murphy is a member of the committee. Scott is ranking member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and the Workforce. Support for the legislation has continued to grow since the members introduced it last week. Here is what leading organizations are saying about the Keeping All Students Safe Act: The Alliance to Prevent Restraint, Aversive Interventions, and Seclusion (APRAIS): “Restraint and seclusion are dangerous practices that cause students trauma and have resulted in injury, and even death. School personnel can also be injured when imposing restraint and seclusion. Though the use of restraint and seclusion is widespread, national data indicates that students with disabilities are roughly 20 times more likely than their peers without disabilities to be restrained and/or secluded. All of our nation’s students deserve better … We applaud your leadership in authoring and promoting the Keeping All Students Safe Act. We look forward to working with you and your staff to help pass this important legislation.” The Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates, Inc.: “COPAA writes to express strong support for the introduction of the Keeping All Students Safe Act. We appreciate your leadership in proposing legislation that prohibits seclusion and seeks to prevent and limit the use of restraint in schools. This bill, if enacted, would considerably strengthen protections in every state and ensure the safety of all students and school personnel.” The Arc: “The Arc is pleased that this legislation bans the most dangerous restraints and limits physical restraints to emergency situations, and that it requires parental notification when restraint occurs. The Arc also greatly appreciates that that for the first time, the House and Senate bills ban seclusion.” The National Disability Rights Network (NDRN): “The National Disability Rights Network (NDRN) writes in strong support of the Keeping All Students Safe Act (KASSA). We appreciate your leadership and recognition that a federal bill which bans seclusion and places very narrow parameters on allowable circumstances for physical restraint is paramount to ensuring that all students are able to learn in a safe school environment. Additionally, NDRN applauds the prevention of problematic behavior through use of de-escalation techniques, conflict management, and evidence-based positive behavioral interventions and supports contained within KASSA.” Below is a complete list of organizations supporting the bill: AUCD The Arc American Association of People with Disabilities Autism Society of America Autistic Self Advocacy Network Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law Center for Public Representation Council of Parent Attorneys and Advocates Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund Family Alliance to Stop Abuse and Neglect National Alliance on Mental Illness National Autism Association National Center for Special Education in Charter Schools National Center for Learning Disabilities National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities National Association of State Directors of Special Education (NASDSE) National Disability Rights Network National Down Syndrome Congress Respectability Law Center SPAN Parent Advocacy Network TASH National PTA
11.16.2018	Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) and Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) today introduced a bill to require uniformed federal police officers to wear body cameras and have dashboard cameras in marked vehicles. Norton and Beyer introduced their bill just before the one-year anniversary of the November 17, 2017, shooting of unarmed 25-year-old Bijan Ghaisar by U.S. Park Police officers. Ghaisar was fatally shot in his car by Park Police in Fairfax County, Virginia, after he fled a car crash and was pursued by officers down George Washington Parkway. Footage of the shooting was released by the Fairfax County Police Department, which captured it on a cruiser’s dashboard camera. Without that footage, Ghaisar’s family and the public would have had no access to the circumstances surrounding Ghaisar’s death. The District of Columbia and Fairfax County both require officers to wear body cameras and have dashboard cameras in marked vehicles. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been investigating the shooting for almost a full year, yet has released no information publicly. “Federal police are late in requiring body cameras and dashboard cameras, which help ensure transparency, protect the public and officers alike and hold bad actors accountable,” said Norton. “The federal government should follow the lead of state and local law enforcement departments across the nation, including D.C.’s Metropolitan Police Department, that have implemented these best policing practices. The Ghaisars have experienced a tragedy with no access to information, and would still be left completely in the dark if it were not for the Fairfax County Police Department. We owe it to the Ghaisars to do everything we can to ensure other families are not similarly left in the dark.” “This legislation would make long-overdue changes to bring federal police in line with other law enforcement agencies in the area of transparency,” said Beyer. “The still-unexplained killing of Bijan Ghaisar shows how important it is to make these reforms, which will benefit victims, officers, and the communities they serve. No family should have to endure what the Ghaisars have gone through over the past year, and this bill would help prevent that from happening again.”
11.16.2018	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today in reaction to President Trump’s announcement that he would nominate Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler to the position of Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): “Andrew Wheeler has already demonstrated that he will be a terrible EPA Administrator, through his proposals to roll back the Clean Power Plan and weaken standards on pollutants like mercury and methane, and through his poor ethics record. Trump’s decision to appoint him to the position is a decision to double down on failure and will lead to weakened protections for clean air and water. From the moment he took over for his disgraced former boss, Scott Pruitt, Wheeler has made it abundantly clear that he shares Pruitt’s willingness to sell out environmental protections in favor of industry profits. These qualities – along with his antipathy to scientific guidance and his refusal to allow action on climate change – are disqualifying. Andrew Wheeler remains a coal lobbyist at heart, and the Senate should reject his appointment.” Beyer previously sought an investigation of potential ethical conflicts by Acting Administrator Wheeler. He was a leading critic in the House of Wheeler’s predecessor, Scott Pruitt.
11.16.2018	A day before the anniversary of the U.S. Park Police shooting of Bijan Ghaisar, an unarmed, 25-year-old man who died days later from his wounds, Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement: “One year after the shooting of Bijan Ghaisar, we are no closer to understanding why he had to die. The complete lack of transparency by federal authorities continues to hurt Bijan’s loved ones and undermine trust in the community. There is no excuse for taking this long to release the most basic information about a police-involved shooting. I will continue to press for details, and to push for legislative solutions to prevent this from happening again, but it should not be this hard to establish basic facts of what occurred here.” The shooting of Bijan Ghaisar by U.S. Park Police occurred on the evening of November 17, 2017, in the Fairfax County portion of Rep. Beyer’s Virginia district. Earlier today Beyer joined District of Columbia Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton to introduce legislation requiring all federal officers to wear body cameras and use dashboard cameras in vehicles.
11.14.2018	Today, Rep. Don Beyer called for the House of Representatives to pass the NO HATE Act following the release of the 2017 hate crime statistics, which showed a rise in hate crimes in the U.S. for the third consecutive year. The release of the data comes just after the October 27 shooting in Pittsburgh, in which a gunman carried out an anti-Semitic attack that claimed 11 lives at the Tree of Life Synagogue. The legislation, sponsored in the Senate by Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), would give law enforcement across the country additional tools to track and fight hate crimes. “For the third year in a row, hate crimes across the country have risen, this year by 17 percent. Unfortunately, the Commonwealth of Virginia has seen its share in this escalation, and it is time for Congress to take action,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “With each passing year, the problem of hate in the United States grows, and it requires Congress to take up and pass the NO HATE Act.” The NO HATE Act, which has 77 cosponsors in the House and 18 in the Senate, would help combat the recent surge in hate crimes by: Improving Reporting of Hate Crimes: This law will improve reporting of hate crimes by supporting the implementation of and training for NIBRS, the latest crime reporting standard, in law enforcement agencies without it. This will allow law enforcement agencies to record and report detailed information about crimes, including hate crimes, to the FBI. Between 2009 and 2015, 17 percent of all law enforcement agencies failed to file a single hate crimes report, and in some states, a majority of law enforcement agencies failed to file a single hate crime report over the same period. Helping law enforcement agencies recognize and report detailed information on hate crimes and report that data to the FBI will help establish a clear picture of the threats that vulnerable communities are facing across the country. Establishing Hate Crime Hotlines: This law will provide grants for states to establish and run hate crime hotlines, to record information about hate crimes, and to redirect victims and witnesses to law enforcement and local support services as needed. This will make sure that hate crimes don’t go unreported and victims get the help that they need. New York and Maryland established hate crime hotlines in November. Helping Victims Seek Justice in the Courts: This law will establish a federal private right of action for hate crimes, offering victims of hate crimes the option to fight for remedies in civil court, and ensuring that everyone—even in states without hate crime laws on the books—can have his or her day in court. Although Connecticut has a state private right of action, most states do not. Rehabilitating Perpetrators of Hate Crimes through Education and Community Service: This law will allow for judges to require individuals convicted under federal hate crime laws to undergo community service or education centered on the community targeted by the crime. The text of the bill is available here.
11.14.2018	Today, Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08), Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT), Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), the top Democrat on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA), the top Democrat on the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, introduced the Keeping All Students Safe Act to protect students from the dangers of seclusion and restraint at school. The legislation would make it illegal for any school receiving taxpayer dollars to seclude children. The legislation also limits the use of physical restraint to instances when it is necessary for the safety of students and teachers. The bill would establish minimum safety standards in schools, require states to monitor the law’s implementation, and increase transparency and oversight to prevent future abuse of students. “No child should be afraid for their safety when they go to school. All too often students are subjected to abusive discipline techniques, which disproportionately affects minority and students with disabilities. A majority of states have already instituted bans on seclusion and inappropriate restraint in the classroom, and it is time we do so nationwide,” said Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08). “The Keeping All Students Safe Act will safeguard students from these incidents of harmful discipline by setting minimum safety standards for schools and by providing training and support to school personnel. It is my duty as a parent, and all our duties as members of our communities, to keep kids safe whenever and wherever we can.” "It's barbaric for schools to confine students alone in locked rooms, or to use abusive methods to restrain little children. Treating school kids this way should not be tolerated in America. Period,” said Senator Murphy (D-CT). “Our bill would establish strong federal standards to keep students safe, while giving school staff alternatives to respond to challenging situations in the right way. I look forward to working with students and advocates to advance this important piece of legislation.” “Every school should be a safe and welcoming place where all students can get a quality education. Unfortunately, despite evidence that seclusion and restraint practices make schools less safe, thousands of students are still subjected to these disproven methods of discipline,” said Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03), House Committee on Education and the Workforce. “While it is encouraging that some states have begun to prohibit or limit the use of seclusion and restraint, it is important that Congress pass the Keeping All Students Safe Act, which would establish a nationwide minimum safety standard. Moreover, this legislation would provide states and teachers the support they need to improve their schools’ culture by using only evidence-based interventions.” “I’m proud to cosponsor the Keeping All Students Safe Act to curb the use of dangerous practices like seclusion and restraint, which are not only harmful, but have lasting effects on students,” said Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-WA.) “These practices are disproportionally used on students with disabilities and children of color, so I’m pleased this bill starts to address the inequities in education that hold so many students back from reaching their full potential. We must keep working to ensure every student is able to learn in a safe and supportive environment—no matter where they live, how they learn, or how much money their parents make.” The legislation refers to key facts and findings that reveal a concerning history of seclusion and restraint of students in schools, including a 2009 Government Accountability Office (GAO) investigation that revealed hundreds of incidents of child abuse in schools as a result of seclusion and restraint practices that disproportionately impacted children with disabilities and children of color. FACT SHEET: The Keeping All Students Safe Act SECTION BY SECTION: Keeping All Students Safe Act
11.14.2018	Reps. Don Beyer and Alan Lowenthal, co-chairs of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus, today wrote to Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi in support of steps by House Democrats to become the “strongest voice possible” in Congress advocating for action on climate change. They wrote: “The United States is the world’s largest economy and second-largest greenhouse gas emitter. The most recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report highlights the critical need for the United States to more effectively address known causes of climate change. … In light of President Trump’s decision to withdraw from Paris, rollback federal standards that limit greenhouse gas pollution, and suppress climate science within federal agencies, it is imperative that Congress have the strongest voice possible to prepare the way forward with evidence. As co-chairs of the Safe Climate Caucus, we believe that the committees of jurisdiction and future Chairs are ready and able to tackle this challenge. However, should you decide to create a select committee on climate change in the 116th Congress, we stand ready to work with you.” The Congressional Safe Climate Caucus was founded by Congressman Henry Waxman (D-CA) in 2013 “to bring attention to the urgent need to address climate change.” It has since grown to a membership of over 50 in the House, and is expected to play a role in discussions on climate action under a Democratic majority in the 116th Congress. Text of the letter follows, and a signed copy is available here. The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Democratic Leader H-204, US Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Leader Pelosi: Congratulations on House Democrats’ successful effort to re-take the House in the 2018 election. As you know well, candidates across the country won their election by putting the concerns of everyday Americans on the ballot, including the urgent threat of climate change. The United States is the world’s largest economy and second-largest greenhouse gas emitter. The most recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report highlights the critical need for the United States to more effectively address known causes of climate change. The IPCC report found that climate change is occurring earlier and more rapidly than expected and that “limiting global warming to 1.5°C would require rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society.” We already see the consequences of 1°C of global warming through more extreme weather like deadly wildfires and heavy rainfall, rising sea levels, and diminishing Arctic sea ice. Warming of 1.5°C or higher increases the risk associated with long-lasting or irreversible change. In light of President Trump’s decision to withdraw from Paris, rollback federal standards that limit greenhouse gas pollution, and suppress climate science within federal agencies, it is imperative that Congress have the strongest voice possible to prepare the way forward with evidence. As co-chairs of the Safe Climate Caucus, we believe that the committees of jurisdiction and future Chairs are ready and able to tackle this challenge. However, should you decide to create a select committee on climate change in the 116th Congress, we stand ready to work with you. The Safe Climate Caucus was created to build support within Congress and across the country for the effort to protect the planet for future generations. We believe the next Congress must examine climate impacts and policy solutions in order to accomplish that goal. Sincerely,
11.14.2018	Think Progress New statistics released this week by the FBI show a 17 percent increase in documented hate crimes in 2017, the third consecutive year in which hate crimes have risen across the United States. Not only did hate crimes altogether rise last year, but the FBI pointed to notable increases in anti-Hispanic and anti-Semitic crimes. Anti-black crimes also substantially outpaced all other race-based hate crimes. One bill, though, attempts to not only stem the rising tide of hate crimes across the U.S., but to also help Americans get a better handle on where and how these hate crimes take place, and who exactly is targeted. The “National Opposition to Hate, Assault, and Threats to Equality Act,” dubbed the “NO HATE Act,” was introduced early last year by Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA). However, it has languished in Congress over the past 18 months — perhaps due to the fact that the measure has zero Republican co-sponsors. Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) introduced a similar bill in the Senate in 2017. Following the release of the new FBI statistics, Beyer issued a call to revisit the bill, and to improve how the U.S. gathers information about hate crimes across the country. “For the third year in a row, hate crimes across the country have risen, this year by 17 percent… [It] is time for Congress to take action,” Beyer said Wednesday in a statement. “With each passing year, the problem of hate in the United States grows, and it requires Congress to take up and pass the NO HATE Act.” As Beyer’s office pointed out, a substantial number of law enforcement agencies have failed to file any hate crimes reports over the past decade. Some states even had a majority of their agencies fail to file a single report. While there has been an increase in agencies reporting over the past year — the FBI said an additional 1,000 agencies contributed information this year — the “NO HATE Act” would streamline reporting. One sub-section of the bill outlines how it would improve reporting, expanding and standardizing the types of information law enforcement agencies should gather relating to potential hate crimes, and help police identify hate crimes when they actually take place. Another sub-section is devoted to increasing the use of hate crime hotlines, providing a grant for states to manage their own related hotlines. One similar hotline launched in Maryland in 2016, but the “NO HATE Act” would push for financing to start similar hotlines in all 50 states. And as a final thrust to protect victims of hate crimes, the bill would “establish a federal private right of action” for hate crimes, effectively allowing victims to sue perpetrators in civil court. The bill has already garnered notable support, including from the NAACP. “For many police departments, the transition to [the standardized hate crime reporting mechanisms] will require additional funding and training. Congress can provide this assistance through legislation, like the NO HATE Act, that incentivizes hate crime reporting,” wrote Maya Berry, the executive director of the Arab American Institute. With nearly 100 co-sponsors in both the House and the Senate, the momentum for improving hate crime reporting and transparency may finally be building, alongside the ever-increasing need for more information about the state of hate crimes in America. And while the bill doesn’t mention Trump explicitly, it comes on the heels of the president’s increasingly toxic rhetoric and the increasing number of far-right extremists who support him, and who then proceed to murder or plot domestic bombings. Just weeks after a spate of hate crimes ranging from a grocery store shooting to a massacre at a Pittsburgh synagogue, there’s little sign the trend will end anytime soon.
11.13.2018	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement today on the announcement that Amazon will move half of its HQ2 campus to Arlington County, Virginia: “Amazon's announcement that it will bring half of its HQ2 to Arlington is a validation of a generation's worth of work to make northern Virginia an economic engine of the nation. “The Northern Virginia of my youth was a bedroom suburb of the nation's capital. The Northern Virginia of today is an economic and cultural dynamo, on the leading edge of the technology revolution that is bettering lives around the world. This transformation involved leadership by all sectors -- business, higher education, government, and community. “Based on my conversations with Amazon and state officials, I am excited to welcome Amazon to Virginia’s 8th -- already one of the nation's most iconic and most educated congressional districts. This is a district that is steeped in history, including George Washington's home and the final resting place for hundreds of thousands of patriots. It is now also the place where the future is coming to life. The infusion of jobs, the diversification of our tax base, the Commonwealth's dramatic expansion of computer science training in Virginia colleges and universities, starting with a new Virginia Tech graduate campus in Alexandria: these are some of the tangible gains of this victory. I am also eager to learn more and to work together as a state and region to confront the challenges this will inevitably bring to affordable housing and transportation. “The people who have worked hard to attract Amazon to our community have been involved in this endeavor for months. Most of our citizens are just learning the details today. Now it is their turn to ask questions and to understand the implications for our region. These questions, and maybe even some serious concerns, are entirely legitimate. I intend to take the lead in making sure that good questions get equally good answers and that all voices are heard. “We all know that success presents its own challenges: Ensuring that all members of the community share in prosperity; Ensuring that transportation infrastructure connects these next generation jobs without punishing commutes; Ensuring that the quality of life -- parks and open spaces, safe neighborhoods, well-educated children -- keeps pace with rising wealth. “Everything in my career -- in the private sector and as a Virginia public official -- has taught me that communities rise and fall together. The infusion of jobs and investment that Amazon will bring to the region will benefit many people who will never collect an Amazon paycheck. “Congratulations to Governor Northam, and all my fellow Virginians, for winning a robust national competition. And congratulations to Amazon for selecting a very special community and region, ripe with diversity and promise.”
10.30.2018	Today, Rep. Don Beyer led 45 Members in writing to President Donald Trump urging him to drop his support for Texas, et al v. U.S., et al. Despite the President’s tweet claiming “All Republicans support people with pre-existing conditions, and if they don’t, they will after I speak to them. I am in total support,” the lawsuit would nullify protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions under the Affordable Care Act. Until President Trump stops his efforts to undermine protections for pre-existing conditions, he is functionally lying to the American people. Rep. Beyer also co-led and supported respective letters to the 18 State Attorneys General and 2 Governors leading the lawsuit. The package of letters re-emphasizes Democrats’ commitment to holding the Trump Administration accountable for their assault on pre-existing condition protections. In addition to the lawsuit, President Trump also vehemently supported the Republican push to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2017, which only failed by a one vote, razor thin margin in the Senate. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has also hinted that Republicans may revisit ACA repeal following the results of the 2018 midterms. A signed copy of the letter to President Trump follows and can be found here. State specific letters can be found here: The Honorable Donald J. Trump President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Trump: You recently tweeted, “All Republicans support people with pre-existing conditions, and if they don’t, they will after I speak to them. I am in total support.” Congressional leadership has made similar arguments. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said, “There’s nobody in the Senate that I’m familiar with who is not in favor of coverage of preexisting conditions.” However, these words do not match the actions of your administration. Your Department of Justice has not only refused to intervene in a lawsuit brought by state attorneys general that would nullify preexisting conditions protections if successful, but also argued in a brief that guaranteeing coverage to people with health conditions and charging them the same rates should be struck down. Will you match your words to your administration’s actions and order the Justice Department to intervene in Texas, et al v. U.S., et al to defend protections for pre-existing conditions? Will you repudiate the brief arguing for the elimination of pre-existing conditions protections? Sincerely,
10.24.2018	Today, Reps. Don Beyer (VA-08), Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Anthony G. Brown (MD-04), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) sent a letter to Interior Department Secretary Ryan Zinke urging him to extend the public comment period for the National Parks Service’s proposal to modify the types of demonstration activities allowed on the National Mall. The proposal included changes to how applications are processed, the locations where activities are allowed and adding potential fees for demonstrations. The full letter follows and is available here. Secretary Ryan Zinke Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington DC 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke: The National Parks Service has proposed to revise special regulations related to demonstrations and special events at locations within the National Mall and Memorial Parks and President's Park. The proposed changes would modify how the NPS processes permit applications for demonstrations and special events, locations where activities are allowed, not allowed, or allowed but subject to restrictions. Specifically, the proposal would close eighty percent of the White House sidewalk, put limits on spontaneous demonstration and structures, and start the conversation of charging fees for protests. Given the historic importance of President’s Park and the National Mall to the exercise of the First Amendment right of free speech and assembly, the American people deserve sufficient opportunity to understand and comment on changes that would impact their rights. Of particular concern is the possible introduction of a fee attached to holding demonstrations and the implication that could have to effectively price out many protests. It is worth remembering the history of Park Service efforts to institute limits on protest. When it occurred during the Vietnam War, the Park Service was sued for attempting to curtail these freedoms. Thus, given this historic legacy and the historic importance of the Mall and President’s Park as a unique site for the exercise of First Amendment rights, sufficient public comment is imperative. Due to the magnitude of the proposed changes, we write to request a 90-day extension for public comment. We look forward to your response. Sincerely,
10.18.2018	Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) and leading Democratic Committee members sent a letter today to Michael E. Horowitz, chairman of the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE), raising concerns about the replacement of Department of the Interior (DOI) Deputy Inspector General (IG) Mary L. Kendall with Suzanne Israel Tufts, a political appointee from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). This move is particularly troubling considering the multiple investigations currently underway at DOI – including several surrounding Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke – and the potential for the personnel change to disrupt those investigations. The lawmakers request, among other information, an assessment of Ms. Tufts’ qualifications and an explanation of whether she was vetted by CIGIE prior to her placement, “as required by law.” Tufts is reportedly replacing Kendall in an “acting” capacity, calling into question what prompted the move and why an acting IG would be replaced by another acting IG. The full letter – co-signed by Rep. Donald McEachin (D-Va.), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations; Rep. Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power; and Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) – is available at http://bit.ly/2CRPoPt. “It is not clear that the new acting IG is sufficiently qualified or politically independent to take the helm of the Office of Inspector General, particularly at such an important time for the office,” the lawmakers write. They continue: The mere threat of replacing an IG when the head of the agency it oversees is under heavy scrutiny will send a signal to current and future IGs throughout the federal government that releasing unfavorable findings may threaten their job. It creates a permanent disincentive for the candor required for an effective IG and severs the independence that is the foundation of effective oversight over federal government waste, fraud, and abuse. Tufts was brought in by the Trump administration following a scandal at HUD in which a whistleblower revealed the purchase of a $31,000 dining room set for Secretary Ben Carson’s office, other budget irregularities, and the improper handling of public information requests made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act. Tufts replaced the whistleblower in that case.
10.18.2018	Today Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Ranking Member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee’s Environment Subcommittee, and Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA), Ranking Member of the Science Committee’s Oversight Subcommittee, led 96 of their colleagues in calling on Environmental Protection Agency Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler to abandon his plans to dissolve the Agency’s independent office for scientific analysis. The Office of the Science Advisor (OSA) is charged with standardizing scientific practices, investigating allegations of inappropriate political interference or bias in science, providing objective advice to the Administrator, and implementing the EPA’s scientific integrity policy. In the EPA’s most recent attack on science, Wheeler recently announced his intention to dissolve the OSA and merge its staff with the Office of Science Policy. “This unnecessary and counterproductive consolidation will undermine scientific integrity, jeopardize bedrock public health and environmental standards, and endanger the EPA’s ability to fulfill its mission of protecting human health and the environment,” the members wrote in the letter. “The EPA’s proposed changes to the OSA appear to be yet another attempt to diminish and dismiss the role of scientists,” the members continued. “The continued efforts to eliminate the role of science at the EPA will have chilling consequences for every person who benefits from clean air and clean water, particularly and disproportionately young children, seniors, and the health-impaired.” “At a time when the world is facing the consequences of climate change and extreme weather patterns and toxic substances continue to challenge access to clean air and water, it is striking that the EPA would even consider shying away from the use of robust science,” they wrote. “Rather than sidelining science from the policymaking process, we urge you to uphold your commitment to include Agency scientists in the EPA’s work, recognize the value of scientific integrity, and maintain an autonomous Office of the Science Advisor.” To fulfill its mission to protect public health and the environment, the EPA needs a foundation of independently verifiable science. The creation of the OSA, independent of the EPA’s program offices, was an essential step in recognizing the value of independent scientific analysis. In addition to Bonamici and Beyer, the letter was signed by: Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson, Zoe Lofgren, Elizabeth H. Esty, Marc Veasey, Jerry McNerney, Bill Foster, Mark Takano, Colleen Hanabusa, Charlie Crist, Scott H. Peters, Debbie Dingell, Gerald E. Connolly, Brendan F. Boyle, Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr., Nydia M. Velázquez, Tim Ryan, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Yvette D. Clarke, Derek Kilmer, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Mike Quigley, Cheri Bustos, Salud Carbajal, Adam Smith, James P. McGovern, Rick Larsen, Gwen Moore, Jared Huffman, Carolyn B. Maloney, Alcee L. Hastings, Alan Lowenthal, Judy Chu, Brenda L. Lawrence, A. Donald McEachin, Barbara Lee, Marcia L. Fudge, Jackie Speier, Grace Meng, Albio Sires, Jamie Raskin, Mark Pocan, Adriano Espaillat, Mark DeSaulnier, Jerrold Nadler, Mike Doyle, Daniel T. Kildee, Pramila Jayapal, Jimmy Panetta, José E. Serrano, Denny Heck, Betty McCollum, Kathy Castor, Peter Welch, John Lewis, Ro Khanna, Ann McLane Kuster, Gregory W. Meeks, Emanuel Cleaver II, Stephen F. Lynch, Ruben J. Kihuen, Susan A. Davis, Tom Suozzi, David E. Price, Bill Pascrell, Jr., Peter DeFazio, Marcy Kaptur, Raúl M. Grijalva, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Frederica S. Wilson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Bobby L. Rush, Darren Soto, Earl Blumenauer, Katherine Clark, C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Ruben Gallego, Eliot L. Engel, Brian Higgins, Raja Krishnamoorthi, Jan Schakowsky, Robert A. Brady, Wm. Lacy Clay, Anna G. Eshoo, David N. Cicilline, Rosa L. DeLauro, Keith Ellison, Eleanor Holmes Norton, John Yarmuth, Scott H. Peters, Dina Titus, Joseph Kennedy III, James R. Langevin, Carol Shea-Porter, John Garamendi, Ben Ray Luján, and Diana DeGette. The full text of the letter is available here.
10.04.2018	Today, the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler urging him to rescind the Agency’s proposed so-called Affordable Clean Energy Rule, or at least allow for additional public hearings and time to comment. The Members cited the abundance of scientific evidence, including EPA’s own analysis, which indicated the rule would be detrimental to public health and climate change. According to the EPA, the proposed rule would also result in more than 1,600 deaths by 2030. The letter was signed by 50 members of the Safe Climate Caucus. The lawmakers wrote: “As members of the Safe Climate Caucus, we write to you with serious concerns regarding the EPA’s proposed rule to replace the Clean Power Plan, the so-called Affordable Clean Energy rule. An abundance of scientific evidence, including your agency’s own analysis, indicates that the proposed rule will increase emissions of dangerous pollutants, including those that contribute to global climate change, and have negative effects on public health, causing up to 1,630 more deaths per year. With the dangers it presents to the environment and public health, we urge you to pull the rulemaking. “As directed by the Supreme Court in Massachusetts v. EPA, EPA analyzed and found that greenhouse gas emissions endangered the public health and welfare of current and future generations. Required to mitigate that finding, EPA consequently finalized the Clean Power Plan in 2015 to set the first ever national limits on carbon pollution from power plants, which, at the time, were the nation’s largest source of emissions. That plan would have resulted in a 32 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. It was designed to regulate power plant emissions on a sector-wide and state-wide basis, which would help incentivize a shift away from dirty energy sources and toward lower-emitting sources while maintaining flexibility for states to choose the most cost-effective methods for power generation. “At a time when the world is facing record heat waves and droughts, wildfires and hurricanes of unprecedented size and frequency, rising sea levels, and a surge in other extreme weather patterns, it is unthinkable that the Administration would propose regulations which will exacerbate the impacts of climate change and risk the welfare of the American people. The Clean Power Plan was a crucial step toward reducing the deadly climate-changing pollution produced by power plants. We urge you to side with the 70 percent of Americans who support strict limits on carbon pollution of existing power plants, and abandon plans to replace the Clean Power Plan with a plan that worsens the American public’s health and welfare. If you will not rescind the Affordable Clean Energy Rule, we request that at the very minimum you allow for additional public hearings and time for the public to comment.” The full text of and a signed copy of the letter is available here.
09.28.2018	Today, Reps. Don Beyer, Pramila Jayapal, David N. Cicilline, Gerald E. Connolly, Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. and Bill Pascrell, Jr. led a letter to President Donald Trump condemning the retreat of American leadership following the announcement of an historically low refugee admissions cap without consulting Congress, which is mandated by U.S. law. The Members also expressed concern that the current fiscal year resettlement rate is the lowest in program history and strongly refuted the announcement’s claims that the Administration cannot address the asylum backlog while maintaining a strong refugee admissions level. The letter was signed by a total of 102 Democrats. The lawmakers wrote: “Your recent decision to drastically curtail our nation’s acceptance of refugees is an abdication of American leadership and values. We urge you to reconsider. “The Fiscal Year 2019 refugee admissions goal of just 30,000 people is a 33 percent decrease from the previous historic low cap of 45,000 for fiscal year 2018. Setting a new record low refugee admissions goal is an abandonment of U.S. leadership amidst the largest global refugee crisis in history, and ultimately makes America less safe. We urge you to increase the refugee admission level to no lower than 110,000. “Therefore, when faced with a record high number of global refugees, the Administration’s response of setting an historic low refugee admissions cap ignores an obvious humanitarian crisis that the United State can and should help address. The announcement comes after a failure to consult with Congress, as mandated by U.S. law. The announcement also implies that the Administration cannot address the asylum backlog while also maintaining a strong refugee admissions level. Refugee resettlement and asylum are two critical forms of protection and one need not come at the expense of the other, especially at a time when global needs have never been greater. Moreover, diverting resources away from refugee resettlement to asylum has yet to successfully reduce the backlog. “It is also deeply concerning that the United States is on track to resettle less than half of the refugee admissions goal set for fiscal year 2018. According to public State Department data, as of eleven months into fiscal year 2018, the U.S. had resettled only 19,899 refugees — a more than 60 percent drop compared to the same period in fiscal year 2017 when 51,392 refugees had been resettled. At this rate, the U.S. is on track to resettle no more than 22,000 refugees in fiscal year 2018. In addition, there has also been a 90 percent reduction in the number of Muslim refugees resettled compared to the previous fiscal year. “We call on your administration to stop its systematic effort to dismantle the U.S. resettlement program, raise the fiscal year 2019 refugee admissions cap to no lower than 110,000 refugees, engage in the requisite Congressional consultations, and account for the discrepancy between the refugee admissions goal for fiscal year 2018 and the grossly inadequate resettlement rate. We look forward to hearing from you and await your response.” The full text of and a signed copy of the letter is available here.
09.28.2018	Today, Congressman Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (MD-07), Ranking Member Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11), and Representatives Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), C. A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), John Sarbanes (MD-03), John Delaney (MD-06), Don Beyer (VA-08), Anthony G. Brown (MD-04), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) sent a letter to the Department of Justice Inspector General requesting that the Inspector General investigate the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) decision-making process for the consolidated FBI headquarters project. “We are asking that you investigate the FBI’s decision-making process for the project to include whether the FBI made the decision to abandon the suburban campus option, participated in the decision but did not make the ultimate decision about changing the plan for the FBI Headquarters, and whether the FBI acted pursuant to direction from President Trump, any White House official, or Office of Management and Budget (OMB) official,” wrote the Members. “It is incredibly alarming that the revised plan suddenly proposed keeping the new FBI headquarters at the Pennsylvania Avenue location when the FBI and GSA had consistently stated that the Hoover Building was not adequate to meet the FBI’s security and operational needs.” “While the Administration has yet to send a prospectus to Congress, both the sudden reversal on site selection and reports that President Trump is involved in the day-to-day planning of this project call into question the integrity of this process,” continued the Members. “Reports that the President is ‘obsessed’ with the details of constructing a new, fully consolidated FBI headquarters at the current site on Pennsylvania Avenue are deeply concerning.” In July 2017, the Trump Administration announced that it was canceling the previous process to select a site and construct a new consolidated FBI headquarters. In February 2018, the General Services Administration (GSA) and FBI released a report recommending that the FBI headquarters remain at the current site in downtown Washington, DC. The unexpected decision reversed 10 years of recommendations that the FBI relocate to a consolidated headquarters. An August 2018 report released by the GSA Office of the Inspector General found that GSA inaccurately accounted for significant costs associated with remaining at the current FBI headquarters in Washington, DC and found that GSA Administrator Murphy may have misled Congress on the involvement of the White House in the project. The full letter follows and is available here. The Honorable Michael Horowitz Inspector General Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Inspector General Horowitz: Based on the findings of the General Services Administration (GSA) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) report dated August 28, 2018, on the revised plan for a new Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) headquarters consolidation project, we ask that you begin an investigation to review the FBI decision-making process in developing the revised plan. It is incredibly alarming that the revised plan suddenly proposed keeping the new FBI headquarters at the Pennsylvania Avenue location when the FBI and GSA had consistently stated that the Hoover Building was not adequate to meet the FBI’s security and operational needs. In July 2017, the Trump Administration announced that it was canceling the previous process to select a site and construct a new consolidated FBI headquarters. At that time, three sites were under consideration in Maryland and Virginia. GSA and FBI officials stated that the cancellation was due to a lack of appropriated funds. At a hearing before the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee to discuss the cancelation, the FBI and GSA committed to the Chairman that they would send a new plan to construct a fully consolidated FBI headquarters to Congress. The plan that they subsequently sent reversed over ten years of recommendations for the FBI to leave the Pennsylvania Avenue site because it would not allow the FBI to consolidate fully all headquarters employees at a single location and it does not meet its previously stated security requirements. While the Administration has yet to send a prospectus to Congress, both the sudden reversal on site selection and reports that President Trump is involved in the day-to-day planning of this project call into question the integrity of this process. Reports that the President is “obsessed” with the details of constructing a new, fully consolidated FBI headquarters at the current site on Pennsylvania Avenue are deeply concerning. With the Trump International Hotel being located across the street from the current FBI building, and given the fact that President Trump has a significant personal financial stake in that hotel, it is troubling that he would take such a hands-on role in a project that has the potential to benefit him financially. These reports raise more questions about whether the Administration has acted improperly in seeking to keep the FBI at the Pennsylvania Avenue site. We are asking that you investigate the FBI’s decision-making process for the project to include whether the FBI made the decision to abandon the suburban campus option, participated in the decision but did not make the ultimate decision about changing the plan for the FBI Headquarters, and whether the FBI acted pursuant to direction from President Trump, any White House official, or Office of Management and Budget (OMB) official. In addition, we also ask that your investigation include the process that went into developing the misleading “funding gap analysis” included in the revised plan. As GSA Inspector General Ochoa writes in the August 28 report, the revised plan would cost approximately $516 million in employee relocation and facility costs for moving 2,300 employees to other FBI offices. With the addition of these previously undisclosed costs, the revised consolidation plan would be more expensive than the original plan for a suburban campus. We request that you examine the following questions: Did the FBI consider these costs to the federal government when the Director was weighing the suburban campus against retaining the current site? Did the FBI communicate these costs to GSA, OMB and the White House to be included in the revised plan? Was the FBI or GSA instructed not to disclose those numbers to Congress? What role did the FBI play in developing the costs used in the “funding gap analysis?” Did the FBI perform any independent funding analysis? If so, was that analysis communicated to GSA, OMB, or the White House? We ask that you review the FBI’s role in the development of the project costs and confirm that accurate and truthful testimony has been provided to Congress on all matters related to the FBI headquarters project. GSA Public Buildings Commissioner Dan Mathews told the GSA OIG that Director Wray was not opposed to a suburban campus site if it offered significant savings. Did Director Wray consider the full costs and benefits of the various options including the per person cost of each option and the potential value for the JEH site? Congress and the public must be reassured that such a dramatic shift in direction for this project is based on full and accurate information rather than simply to benefit the President’s financial interest.
09.26.2018	Earlier today, Congressman Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05) along with Representatives Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Elijah Cummings (MD-07), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), John P. Sarbanes (MD-03), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), John K. Delaney (MD-06), Don Beyer (VA-08), Anthony Brown (MD-04), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) met with representatives from federal employee unions. Representatives from the National Treasury Employees Union, the American Federation of Government Employees, the National Federation of Federal Employees, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, and the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers were in attendance. During the meeting, the Members and union representatives discussed the negative impact of continued attacks by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans on our federal civilian workforce, including the Administration’s Executive Orders undermining the right of federal employees to engage in union activities on official time and making it easier to fire employees, as well as President Trump’s decision to cancel a scheduled pay increase for federal workers. The Members also discussed their commitment to increasing pay for federal employees and opposing efforts to attack retirement benefits. “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with representatives of our federal civilian workforce today to discuss the ways we can continue to support our hardworking federal employees,” said Congressman Hoyer. “When Republicans seek to undermine our federal civilian workforce, they are making it more difficult for our government to function efficiently and provide the American people with the services they expect. I was glad to join with my colleagues from the National Capital Region to reaffirm our commitment to federal employees and discuss how we will work together to ensure fair pay and workplace protections.” “The nation’s two million federal employees live in every Member’s district, but we in the National Capital Region have a special obligation to speak up not only for our own constituents, but for all federal workers,” said Congresswoman Norton. “The best bulwark against the repeated attacks from the Trump administration and congressional Republicans are our elected federal employee unions and the collective bargaining system necessary to seek fair working conditions, as well as the modest pay increases federal employees are due. Hostility to civil servants by the Republican majority has left them with only the rule of law and the federal courts to protect them. Last month a federal judge blocked three Trump executive orders, which we were not able to block in committee, that sought to diminish the labor rights of federal workers, including their right to use official time, which is necessary for the representation of federal workers who need to use the grievance process authorized by statute. I thank our federal employees for their continued dedication to serving their country in the face of tremendous adversity.” “Federal employee unions play a crucial role in supporting federal workers, who dedicate their lives to protecting our national security, our environmental safety, and our health and wellness,” Congressman Cummings said. “The Trump Administration and Republicans in Congress have been relentless in their efforts to strip federal workers of their hard-won rights. We cannot allow that to happen. I look forward to continuing to work with our federal unions to ensure that hard-working Americans can earn a living wage and provide for their families.” “We are not going to sit idle while the President refuses to give federal employees even a modest pay raise, cuts pensions, threatens bargaining rights, reduces flexibility and even attacks their credibility,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “I represent more than 171,000 federal employees, from entry level to top management. All of them say the Administration’s full-court press against the federal workforce is having a chilling effect on recruitment, retention and morale. It’s got to stop.” “Amid the Trump Administration’s ongoing attacks on our nation’s civil servants, Democrats from our region’s Congressional delegation will continue to stand up and fight for the women and men who proudly serve our country,” said Congressman Sarbanes. “After a productive and thoughtful conversation today with representatives from our federal civilian workforce, we remain united in our effort to protect the workplace rights, employee protections and hard-earned, modest compensation that our federal workers deserve.” “President Trump and Republicans in Congress continue to denigrate and attack our dedicated federal workers,” said Congressman Connolly. “Pay freezes, government shutdowns, the Holman rule, and weakening worker protections doesn’t help our federal workforce meet its mission or inspire the next generation of public servants. Instead of attacking federal employees, we should be honoring their service.” “Congress should stand with federal employees instead of attacking and undermining them. These are the men and women that keep us safe and make necessary programs work. Tearing down your employees is just about the worst management strategy available, yet all too often that appears to be what this White House and some in Congress want to do,” said Congressman Delaney. “Federal employees run a gauntlet of taunts and intimidation daily, thanks to the hostile Trump Administration. It is undercutting their benefits and cutting earned raises,” said Congressman Beyer. “My district is home to more feds than any other district and my colleagues in the National Capital Region and I will continue to do everything possible to strengthen protections for these hard-working public servants.” “Federal employees have dedicated their careers to serving this country, and it’s imperative that we have their back,” said Congressman Brown. “President Trump and Republicans in Congress are committed to their radical partisan agenda to attack federal employees and leave working people with no champions. We are not going to stand by and allow this to happen. As we look forward to next Congress, I, along with my Democratic colleagues, will continue to fight for increased federal pay, strengthened collective bargaining power, and guaranteed parental leave.” “The administration’s continuing attacks on the federal work force are also an attack on our local communities,” said Congressman Raskin. “I’m thrilled to have colleagues who stand up both for an efficient federal government and a well-trained and effective federal work force. We are not going to let the president demolish our workers, their unions or our government.”
09.25.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today announced that Delegate Danica Roem will be the keynote speaker at Beyer’s fourth annual women’s conference and forum, “Breaking Through: Women Work For Change.” Delegate Roem’s inspiring and transformative campaign gained national and international attention. Her victory was secured by sticking to the issues that matter most to her constituents, and never shying away from standing up for justice. As the first out transgender woman elected to a state legislature, she is blazing a new and unique trail. “Delegate Danica Roem is a trailblazer who continues to inspire people far beyond Virginia’s 13th District,” Beyer said. “Her meteoric rise, which culminated in a 2017 victory few predicted, was fueled by a laser focus on her constituents’ core issues. It was also a historic moment that made me proud to be a Virginian. I’m excited to hear what she has to say.” “I’m excited to join Congressman and Megan Beyer’s Women’s Conference as we advocate for equality and equity under the law,” said Delegate Roem. “As a co-patron of the resolution to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment in Virginia, it’s so important for women and our allies across the commonwealth to begin mobilizing for this cause leading up to the 2019 General Assembly session so not one more generation of women and girls has to watch this historic opportunity pass us by. “We must also keep in mind that equality for women means equality for all women. That means we must advance the cause of those of us who have been historically disenfranchised, marginalized, stigmatized and shut out because of race, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, disability or any other inherent identifier. “We are all in this together and we are all joined by a sense of common purpose to make our Virginia a more inclusive commonwealth. It’s time to mobilize and it’s time to win." In addition to Delegate Roem’s remarks, the conference will feature an award presentation to 11-year-old gun violence prevention activist Naomi Wadler, a panel discussion on the Equal Rights Amendment, and interactive breakout sessions between community and advocacy leaders. Delegate Danica Roem represents the 13th District in the Virginia House of Delegates including the City of Manassas Park, Town of Haymarket, and Prince William County portions of Manassas and Gainesville. She is a 33-year-old step-mom, lifelong resident of Prince William County, and the former lead reporter of the Gainesville Times. She ran for office to bring a reporter's eye to Richmond and to speak truth to power. During her first legislative session this year, she was proud to champion bills important to her constituents, and to help expand Medicaid to 400,000 people across the state of Virginia. She continues to fight every day for her constituents in the 13th District.
09.18.2018	Rep. Beyer announced today that Alexandria’s Naomi Wadler will receive the Clara Mortenson Beyer Women and Children First Award for her advocacy in support of gun violence prevention. Wadler, 11, organized youth protests at her school in the wake of the mass shooting in Parkland, Florida earlier this year. Her subsequent address to crowds at the March For Our Lives in Washington D.C. became an international sensation. The award will be presented Saturday, October 13, at Rep. Beyer’s fourth annual women’s conference and forum, “Breaking Through: Women Work For Change.” “I am thrilled to welcome Naomi Wadler back to speak to constituents about her experience as an activist, and to impart her wisdom to people who want to work for change,” Beyer said. “I doubt that anyone who heard her speak at my town hall in March has forgotten her inspiring words about the need to stop gun violence. Naomi is a prodigy of advocacy, and I look forward to continuing to learn from her next month at our Annual Women’s Conference in Arlington.” “I hope that this award will bring more attention to the stories of African American girls who are shot every day without making the news,” Wadler said. “The last time I spoke at an event with Congressman Beyer, I was moved and inspired by Fred Guttenberg, who lost his daughter at the Parkland shooting and then began speaking out about guns. I am very glad to have this chance to talk about the need for action to make things better.” Beyer first met Naomi Wadler at his Alexandria town hall on gun violence, held weeks after the Parkland shooting. That night, Beyer and guests Fred Guttenberg, a Parkland parent, and Rep. Ted Deutch, who represents Parkland, took questions and comments from constituents, including Wadler. Don Beyer created the Clara Mortenson Beyer Women and Children First Award while Ambassador to Switzerland in 2011. It is named after his grandmother, who is credited with convincing the Roosevelt Administration to appoint Frances Perkins, the first female Cabinet Secretary in the United States. Clara Beyer served as Secretary Perkins’ right hand, working on child labor issues. She was the first woman appointed as US representative to the International Labor Organization in Geneva. The award is given annually to an exceptional woman who made a difference on behalf of women’s empowerment. Sasha DiGiulian, the first American woman to free-climb the north face of the 13,462 foot Eiger, won the award in 2015. Other previous awardees include Ambassador to the United States U.N. Mission in Geneva and author Betty King, Ruth Gaby Vermot, the founder of "Peace Women," Lisa Feldmann, Editor of Annabelle Magazine in Switzerland, Arlington community activist Portia Clark, and immigration advocate Ofelia Calderón. This year's conference will be held at Founder's Hall on October 13. Registration and additional information are available here.
09.18.2018	Today, Reps. Don Beyer, Debbie Dingell, and Raúl M. Grijalva led a group of 105 Democrats in a letter to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross urging them to withdraw recently proposed changes that weaken the Endangered Species Act. The changes would weaken protections for endangered species and their habitats and impair the consultation process between federal agencies. As America’s most effective law for protecting wildlife, ninety-nine percent of species listed under the Act have gone on to survive or been set on the path to recovery. The lawmakers cited this overwhelming success rate as a key reason to uphold the law as it currently stands. They wrote: “We write to express our opposition to the proposed rules (FWS–HQ–ES–2018–0006, FWS–HQ–ES–2018–0007, and FWS–HQ–ES–2018–0009) to amend the regulations for implementing sections 4 and 7 of the Endangered Species Act. The proposals, which in many instances are not consistent with the spirit of the law as Congress intended, rescind longstanding conservation regulations that have proven both effective and popular. We are deeply alarmed that the very agencies tasked with the conservation of our wildlife are seeking to drastically impair the protections for threatened and endangered species, the safeguards of critical habitat, and the consultation process between federal agencies. “The proposals would undermine essential conservation tools that have protected imperiled species and their habitats for decades. A particularly problematic theme throughout these vaguely-worded proposals is that none of them are likely to improve conservation of species. Given the many recent attacks on the Endangered Species Act and the environment from this administration, we have little reason to trust that these proposals will in any way benefit wildlife, and therefore do not support changing longstanding and effective regulations as species hover perilously close to extinction. “We stand in firm opposition to the three proposed rules, and we ask FWS and NMFS to instead take proactive measures to prevent permanent extinction of imperiled species.” The full text of and a signed copy of the letter is available here.
09.14.2018	This week Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), John Katko (R-NY-24), and Don Beyer (D-VA-08) introduced H.Res. 1067 to recognize September as National Suicide Prevention Awareness Month. “September National Suicide Prevention Month is a time to educate the public on the warning signs and symptoms of mental illness, share resources and stories of resilience, and spread hope as we break the silence and stigma,” said Rep. Napolitano. “Suicide affects all of us and does not see race, gender, age, political party, or ZIP code. Our bipartisan resolution recognizes that suicide is a public health crisis, preventable, and must be a national priority. I am grateful to introduce it with Congressmen Katko and Beyer, whose leadership on the Suicide Prevention Task Force is bringing together our colleagues, experts in the field, persons with lived experience, and advocates to combat suicide and ensure life-saving services for all in need.” “In recognition of September as National Suicide Prevention Month, I’m proud to take the lead in offering a bipartisan resolution before the House alongside Reps. Napolitano and Beyer,” said Rep. Katko. Suicide is a tragedy that has impacted countless families in Central New York and nationwide, regardless of demographics. We must do more to eliminate the stigma associated with seeking mental healthcare, and to ensure those who are struggling are able to seek the help they need. As co-chair of the bipartisan Mental Health Caucus, I am committed to working across the aisle to do just that.” “We all can do more to help raise awareness of the warning signs of suicide and basic suicide prevention methods,” said Rep. Beyer. “This year National Suicide Prevention Month finds the country facing a disturbing and rapid rise in the incidence of suicide, according to CDC data. Each of us knows people who have been affected by suicide, and we have to do everything we can in our communities and as public officials to reverse this trend.” Background Suicide is overall the 10th leading cause of death and the 2nd leading cause of death for individuals between 10 to 34. One person dies by suicide every 11.7 minutes resulting in nearly 45,000 deaths a year. Suicide is the only leading cause of death to increase every year for the past decade. Suicide is preventable; 9 out of 10 suicide attempt survivors do not go on to die by suicide. Reps. Napolitano and Katko chair the bipartisan Congressional Mental Health Caucus in Congress, where they promote access to mental health services for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans, and increased mental health coverage for all. The Suicide Prevention Task Force, which was launched one year ago today, is chaired by Reps. Katko and Beyer and is part of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Link: https://bit.ly/2NQ25Qh
09.13.2018	U.S. Senators Tom Udall (D-N.M.) and Tom Carper (D-Del.) and U.S. Representatives Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.), and Don Beyer (D-Va.) joined scientists, faith leaders, environmental advocates and the public to gather in support of the Endangered Species Act (ESA), the nation’s most effective tool to safeguard wildlife facing extinction. The event highlighted the threat of the Trump administration’s attacks on the ESA before the end of the public comment period in less than two weeks, on September 24. Republicans in the current Congress have already introduced more than 100 pieces of legislation to undercut the ESA and roll back federal protections for endangered and threatened species. In July, the Trump administration proposed the most sweeping set of changes to the ESA in several decades, including plans to undermine the longstanding rule that only scientific data can be used in determining whether to protect a species, end key protections for ‘threatened’ species and weaken bedrock consultation requirements. These revisions would undermine the ESA and upend over four decades of bipartisan support for protecting wildlife in danger of extinction. “The Trump administration’s determination to dismantle bedrock environmental laws, turn a blind eye to science and roll over for special interests knows no bounds,” said Udall, the lead Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies. “Now, it wants to put sensitive wildlife habitat up for auction to the highest bidder. But we won’t stand by as this administration and its allies in Congress launch a calculated assault on these bedrock protections on behalf of special interests and anti-environment extremists. My colleagues and I will continue to work tirelessly to show that partisan efforts to gut endangered species safeguards won’t pass muster in Congress.” “We only have one planet, and it’s our duty to protect it – for all the living things that share it and for future generations,” said Carper. “The Endangered Species Act helped recover the iconic bald eagle and is helping to recover beloved species in Delaware, such as the Red Knot and Piping Plover birds. This should not be a partisan issue. I call upon my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and the Trump Administration to abandon short-sighted efforts to undermine the Endangered Species Act, and instead work with us to better fund this important law that has successfully protected the iconic species that make this country so unique.” “Republicans have spent years telling everyone the Endangered Species Act has failed, and yet here it is still successfully protecting all these species and preserving all these habitats decades after it became law,” said Grijalva. It’s not just a great environmental law – it’s groundbreaking legislation that has exponentially improved conservation efforts across the country. Republicans want to destroy it, and we’re here standing in solidarity to protect it. I hate to say it, but it really is that simple.” “We need to worry about what this Administration is doing to roll back protections for endangered species and habitats,” said Dingell. “The Endangered Species Act is critical to the revitalization of gray wolves, the bald eagle, and the monarch butterfly. We have lost 25 million monarch butterflies in the last decade. They are critical to our environment and irreplaceable once they are extinct. Each species plays a unique role in an ecological system. When they disappear we’ll have problems in our environment. We must be bold and proactive in protecting the environment for future generations and stop the constant efforts to roll back the ESA.” “The Endangered Species Act is critically important right now, given the Trump Administration’s efforts to attack wildlife conservation,” said Beyer. “Proposals that would remove or restrict protections in favor of an anti-wildlife, anti-climate agenda will have destructive consequences for generations to come. The ESA works, and Congress should work together to keep this law strong for the future.” Since its passage in 1973, the Endangered Species Act has successfully prevented the extinction of some of America’s most treasured wildlife, including the bald eagle, grizzly bear and California condor.
09.11.2018	The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its plan today to gut safeguards on methane and other pollutants from the fossil fuel industry. Safe Climate Caucus Co-Chairs Reps. Don Beyer (VA-08) and Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) released the following statement in response: “Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler confirmed that an EPA under his leadership will not miss a beat in carrying out Trump’s plan to sell out to the fossil fuel industry. Methane is a significantly more powerful greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide and making it easier to release is the last thing the federal government should be doing. With every passing day, this administration is gutting important environmental protections that keep air and water clean, and communities safe. “As the Trump administration furthers its attack on public and environmental health, the Safe Climate Caucus will stand with the majority of Americans who demand climate action by pushing back against this destructive, pro-pollution agenda.”
09.04.2018	Today the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a report which found that over $3.5 million was spent on the personal security detail (PSD) of former EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt, without justification. Rep. Beyer issued the following statement: “This IG report leaves no doubt that Scott Pruitt wasted huge amounts of taxpayer money on his own protection without justification. Though many of my colleagues and I repeatedly raised concerns about Scott Pruitt, the President and Republican leaders in Congress chose to ignore these issues for months while Pruitt’s scandals became worse and worse. The Pruitt saga illustrates how sorely real oversight is needed as a check on the President, and how the GOP-led Congress has acted as a rubber stamp for the Trump Administration’s worst excesses. We also know that this IG report is the tip of the iceberg, and that many more such reports are likely to follow in the coming weeks and months which may reveal new details about wrongdoing by Scott Pruitt and the rest of Donald Trump’s cabinet. The American people deserve a Congress that is not afraid to clean up the Trump culture of corruption.” The IG report found that spending on Pruitt’s personal security detail incurred over “$3.5 million in costs from February 1, 2017, through December 31, 2017—an increase of over 110 percent compared to the prior period’s costs of $1.6 million—without documented justification.” The report also found that this spending was authorized by Pruitt without a threat analysis, and that the EPA failed to provide “any specific threats against Administrator Pruitt” to the Department of Homeland Security as it sought to evaluate the need for his unprecedented 24/7 protective detail. The IG report on wasteful security spending by Scott Pruitt is the first in a series of such reports expected to be released in the coming weeks, several of which were requested by Rep. Beyer.
08.30.2018	Rep. Beyer issued the following statement today on President Trump’s announcement that he would halt pay raises for civilian federal employees, which were due to take effect in the coming year: “President Trump’s decision to deny pay raises is a slap in the face to the hardworking civil servants who help keep us safe, care for our veterans, and faithfully serve the American people. No one will believe his dishonest justification of a ‘national emergency or serious economic conditions,’ which is contradicted by Trump’s own commentary painting a rosy picture of the economy. This newfound concern for the fiscal prudence is impossible to credit, given Trump’s willingness to create massive deficits and determination to waste money on pet projects like his border wall. This is merely an attack on another class of people he does not like. It is a harsh indictment of President Trump’s values that he is freezing workers’ pay to offset his multi-billion-dollar tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires.” Congressman Beyer represents the largest number of federal employees of any Member of the House of Representatives.
08.29.2018	This week the Inspector General (IG) of the General Services Investigation (GSA) issued a report which found that, despite previous denials, President Trump was personally involved in the decision to overturn years of planning for the relocation of the FBI headquarters. That decision has a significant impact on Trump’s financial interests, given the proximity of the current headquarters to the Trump International Hotel. The report also found that Administration officials misled Congress and refused to reveal to investigators the nature of Trump’s involvement in that decision. Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement: “Last year, the Trump Administration inexplicably overturned years of work to move the FBI out of its structurally deficient headquarters and into a new location, wasting thousands of staff hours and millions of taxpayer dollars. The Inspector General’s report makes it clear that Trump was personally involved in this decision, raising the specter of major mismanagement of a multi-billion-dollar federal procurement project motivated by the President’s business interests. The report also revealed that officials who were present or aware of these discussions repeatedly misled Members of Congress about the President’s involvement. Further, Administration officials say they were told by the White House Counsel’s office ‘not to disclose any statements made by the President.’ This looks like a cover-up. Given the findings in the IG’s report and the President’s conflicts of interest, evidence of Trump’s culture of corruption is staring us in the face. Congress must immediately launch a full investigation to establish what happened with the FBI headquarters project and what influence the President exerted. Given the IG report’s finding that Administration officials lowballed Congress on the costs of the project and the President’s conflicts of interest, GSA and FBI should return to the original plan to build a fully consolidated FBI headquarters in the region.” The IG report, requested and subsequently released by Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), reviewed GSA’s sudden decision to overturn years of planning for a suburban location and instead demolish the current FBI headquarters on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C., and build a new headquarters at the same location. That decision was made, according to the report, after two meetings at the White House on January 24, 2018, one of which involved President Trump. Officials who took part in or were aware of those meetings were asked several times in House and Senate hearings whether the President had been a party to any discussions regarding the future of the FBI headquarters, and gave what the IG report repeatedly characterizes as a “misleading impression” by failing to answer in the affirmative. The report also found that the GSA had significantly underestimated the cost of the rebuilding project to Congress by excluding key considerations in its analysis, which allowed the Administration to project that its plan would be less costly than the previous plan to build a new headquarters, when the opposite was true.
08.21.2018	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration released its proposal to gut the Clean Power Plan: “President Trump and Acting EPA head Andrew Wheeler teamed up with their friends in the fossil fuel industry to release a plan that would open the floodgates to more carbon pollution across the country. The Administration’s proposal is a betrayal of the public trust that fails to uphold the EPA’s legal obligation under the Clean Air Act to protect Americans from pollution. The EPA’s own estimates released with this plan say it will lead to the premature deaths of thousands, an outcome which no government official should be willing to accept. “Every day the Trump Administration is making it more difficult for us to act on climate change. During a time when wildfires are burning hotter, droughts are lasting longer, and floods are destroying coasts, we need ambitious environmental policies to safeguard public health and safety. This Dirty Power proposal is the opposite of what this country needs to keep Americans safe and fend off a dire threat to the planet.” Representative Beyer is the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus. He is also a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources and the Joint Economic Committee. He previously served two terms as Virginia's Lieutenant Governor, and served as President Obama’s Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein from 2009 to 2013.
08.02.2018	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration proposed to roll back fuel-efficiency standards for cars and trucks: “In one of President Trump’s most significant efforts to undo Obama’s environmental legacy, he solidified his own: prioritize the wish list of big corporate polluters over the health of the American people. In rolling back the fuel-efficiency standards, the Trump Administration has again signaled that the wallets of the fossil fuel industry are more important than the American taxpayers or their right to breathe clean air. “This is further confirmation that Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler shares Scott Pruitt’s disregard for environmental protection and public health. Today, Wheeler sided against every hardworking American family who wants to stay healthy and save money at the pump. “All people have the right to breathe clean air and live in a clean environment, and these fuel-efficiency standards are an integral part of achieving that goal. We must continue to fight this Administration’s toxic agenda here in Congress and in the courts.”
07.27.2018	Rep. Beyer (D-VA) led a group of House Democrats today asking the Acting Director of the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) for a review of recent meetings between Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler and his former lobbying clients. The inquiry followed reporting by E&E that Wheeler met with at least three clients of Wheeler’s former lobbying firm this summer, which may have violated his Trump Administration ethics pledge. The Representatives wrote: “Acting Administrator Wheeler served as a registered lobbyist for Faegre Baker Daniels until May 31, 2016, according to disclosure filings. His political appointment to the position of Deputy Administrator of the EPA began on April 20, 2017, and therefore Wheeler should have recused himself from all matters involving his former clients until at least April 20, 2019. His pledge notwithstanding, Wheeler reportedly met with former clients repeatedly while serving as Deputy Administrator. His public calendar shows meetings with his former client, “Darling Ingredients,” on June 26, 2018, the South Coast Air Quality Management District on June 22, 2018, and Archer Daniels Midland Co. (listed on his calendar as “ADM) on May 24, 2018. All of these companies have business interests which would be significantly affected by pending EPA regulations, and all paid Wheeler and his former lobbying firm Faegre Baker Daniels thousands of dollars for lobbying work. Andrew Wheeler is the Acting Administrator of the EPA because of the departure of Administrator Scott Pruitt, which occurred under a cloud of ethical controversy and scandal that tarnished the reputation of the Agency. That context, Wheeler’s past work as a coal lobbyist, and the many conflicts of interest which that work naturally presents to his leadership of the EPA demand that his meetings and communications be carefully scrutinized so that he is held to the highest ethical standard. For these reasons, we ask that that the Office of Government Ethics investigate the matter of Acting EPA Administrator Wheeler’s involvement with past lobbying clients to determine whether his previous meetings may have violated his ethics pledge. We also ask that you clarify which clients, and which regulatory matters affecting them, merit future recusals by the Acting Administrator in order to comply with both the spirit and the letter of ethics rules.” The Representatives also noted a filing with the Senate by Faegre Baker Daniels which says that Andrew Wheeler lobbied on behalf of its client Darling International Inc, one of the companies with whom he later met, during the period ending in May of 2016, which is within the window of his ethics pledge. The filing reports $40,000 paid by Darling to Faegre for lobbying by Wheeler and others in 2016. The letter was signed by Reps. Beyer, Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), and Jamie Raskin (D-MD). Text follows, and a signed copy is available here. David J. Apol Acting Director Office of Government Ethics 1201 New York Avenue, N.W. Suite 500 Washington, D.C. 20005 Dear Acting Director Apol: We write regarding reports that Acting Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Andrew Wheeler may have violated his ethics pledge by meeting with former lobbying clients.[1] The Trump Administration ethics pledge was established by Executive Order shortly after the President took office, and includes the following section: 6. I will not for a period of 2 years from the date of my appointment participate in any particular matter involving specific parties that is directly and substantially related to my former employer or former clients, including regulations and contracts.[2] Acting Administrator Wheeler served as a registered lobbyist for Faegre Baker Daniels until May 31, 2016, according to disclosure filings.[3] His political appointment to the position of Deputy Administrator of the EPA began on April 20, 2017, and therefore Wheeler should have recused himself from all matters involving his former clients until at least April 20, 2019. His pledge notwithstanding, Wheeler reportedly met with former clients repeatedly while serving as Deputy Administrator. His public calendar shows meetings with his former client, “Darling Ingredients,” on June 26, 2018, the South Coast Air Quality Management District on June 22, 2018, and Archer Daniels Midland Co. (listed on his calendar as “ADM) on May 24, 2018.[4] All of these companies have business interests which would be significantly affected by pending EPA regulations, and all paid Wheeler and his former lobbying firm Faegre Baker Daniels thousands of dollars for lobbying work. Wheeler was even listed as a lead lobbyist for Darling International (now known as Darlington Ingredients) on lobbying filing disclosures as recently as the second quarter of 2016, just over two years prior to his meeting with them as Acting EPA Administrator.[5] Andrew Wheeler is the Acting Administrator of the EPA because of the departure of Administrator Scott Pruitt, which occurred under a cloud of ethical controversy and scandal that tarnished the reputation of the Agency. That context, Wheeler’s past work as a coal lobbyist, and the many conflicts of interest which that work naturally presents to his leadership of the EPA demand that his meetings and communications be carefully scrutinized so that he is held to the highest ethical standard. For these reasons, we ask that that the Office of Government Ethics investigate the matter of Acting EPA Administrator Wheeler’s involvement with past lobbying clients to determine whether his previous meetings may have violated his ethics pledge. We also ask that you clarify which clients, and which regulatory matters affecting them, merit future recusals by the Acting Administrator in order to comply with both the spirit and the letter of ethics rules. [1] Hiar, Corbin. “Despite His Assurances, Wheeler Met With Former Clients.” E&E News, July 26, 2018. https://www.eenews.net/stories/1060091287 [2] Executive Order 13770. January 28, 2017. https://www2.oge.gov/web/oge.nsf/Resources/Executive+Order+13770+(Jan.+28,+2017):+Ethics+Commitments+by+Executive+Branch+Appointees [3] http://disclosures.house.gov/ld/ldxmlrelease/2016/2T/300812852.xml [4] E.P.A. Public Calendar for Andrew Wheeler, Acting Administrator https://www.epa.gov/senior-leaders-calendars/calendar-andrew-wheeler-acting-administrator [5] Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 Filing, July 19, 2016. https://soprweb.senate.gov/index.cfm?event=getFilingDetails&filingID=6DEBD4B7-F9A1-4FF4-B502-68A068403D54&filingTypeID=62
07.26.2018	A new study released this week by the Center For American Progress suggested that the cumulative effects of Republican efforts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will raise health care costs for Virginia families by thousands of dollars, on average. Those increases, broken down by Congressional District in the table below, come on top of 2018 premium hikes which averaged 37 percent across the country. “From the moment Republicans took undivided control of government, they have driven up healthcare costs for American families,” said Rep. Beyer. “Health insurers have made it abundantly clear in their rate request filings that these premium increases are mainly driven by actions taken by the Trump Administration and its allies in Congress. This unconscionable sabotage is badly hurting working people, even as the wealthy see huge tax cuts. I will continue fighting for the people to get sensible solutions that help make healthcare more affordable.” Rep. Beyer has been an outspoken critic of Trump Administration healthcare sabotage, and previously led House Democrats in warning Speaker Paul Ryan that GOP inaction on healthcare would lead to rising premiums for America’s middle class. He has voted against every attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and is the founder of the bipartisan House Suicide Prevention Task Force.
07.26.2018	Today, Representatives Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) and Don Beyer (D-VA) introduced the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, which would direct the Secretary of the Treasury to mint commemorative coins in recognition of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier’s upcoming centennial in 2021. A companion version of this legislation is being introduced in the Senate under the leadership of Senators Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT): “Since the first burial in 1921, the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier has been a powerful symbol in American history. This commemorative coin will honor the storied legacy of the nameless Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. So long as the Sentinels remain on patrol, the memory of our unknown war dead will never pass from the hearts of the American people,” said Congressman Brad Wenstrup. “Our bipartisan bill would honor American servicemembers who gave the ‘last full measure of devotion’ to their country,” said Congressman Don Beyer. “It would also help Americans learn more about the sacrifices of those brave souls interred in Arlington and elsewhere, as we approach the centennial of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery. I applaud my colleagues for working together across party lines on this cause which all Americans support.” “A few months after the World War I Unknown was laid to rest, the commander of the Military District of Washington declined a request to post a sentry at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, saying that visitors to Washington ‘can reach the distantly located tomb only with great difficulty’ and predicting that the Tomb ‘is not and never will be visited by the thousands of visitors as is done in England, France, and Italy.’ Yet one hundred years later, more than four million people pass through the gates of Arlington National Cemetery each year, and most will visit the Tomb to observe the Changing of the Guard. Americans venerate the Tomb and its Sentinels as a shrine to all the brave men and women who have served in our Armed Forces, and especially those who laid down their lives so that we could live in freedom. This commemorative coin will be a fitting tribute to those heroes and to the Sentinels who have guarded our Tomb for 82 years,” said Senator Cotton. “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this important legislation to honor and memorialize our nation’s unknown servicemembers, who paid the ultimate sacrifice. This commemorative coin will honor the centennial anniversary of the dedication of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. This solemn tomb is held in the highest regard by our nation – guarded 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, no matter the weather,” said Senator Blumenthal. Background: The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is a memorial site at Arlington National Cemetery approved by Congress on March 4, 1921 to honor the unknown soldiers who died in World War I. Inscribed on the back of the Tomb are the words “Here rests in honored glory an American soldier known but to God.” Today, the site also honors unknown soldiers from World War II, Korea, and Vietnam. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is guarded 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and in any weather by Tomb Guard Sentinels. The Sentinels, all volunteers, are considered to be the best of the elite 3d U.S. Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard), headquartered at Fort Meyer, Virginia. Proceeds from the sale of the commemorative coins would benefit the National World War I Museum and Memorial for the purposes of assisting in commemorating the centennial. The minting of such coins will not result in any net cost to the United States government.
07.19.2018	The announcement by the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) that it will open a formal investigation of Secretary Ryan Zinke’s real estate dealings with energy giant Halliburton represents the eleventh federal investigation into Zinke opened to date. Most of those investigations are for potential ethical violations. “Scott Pruitt clearly was not the only member of Trump’s Cabinet with multiple, serious ethics problems,” said Rep. Beyer. “Unfortunately, as in Pruitt’s case, many of Secretary Zinke’s issues stem from ignoring ethics guidelines while empowering industry. The rampant corruption in the Trump Administration is the product of a president who sets the worst possible example and a Congress which shrugs off its oversight duties. The American people deserve better.” Secretary Zinke has previously come under investigation for staff reassignments, threats to a Senator, non-commercial flights, violating the Hatch Act (three investigations into separate incidents), improper use of DOI vehicles, the handling of a casino expansion, the scrubbing of a National Parks Service climate study, and the halting of two public health studies. Those probes, all but four of which remain open, have been conducted by the DOI’s Inspector General, the Office of Special Counsel, and the Government Accounting Office. Though he took office less than a year and a half ago, Zinke’s 11 federal investigations match the total by all previous Interior Secretaries in the current century put together. By contrast, Zinke’s predecessor Sally Jewell served for nearly four years with no formal (ethics or otherwise) investigations of misconduct. Representative Beyer serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, which has jurisdiction over the Department of the Interior, where he has led bipartisan opposition to oil and gas exploration in the Atlantic Ocean. He is the only Member of Congress to have worked as a ranger for the National Parks Service.
07.19.2018	Safe Climate Caucus Co-Chairs Reps. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) and Don Beyer (VA-08) released the statement below following the passage of H. Con. Res. 119, the anti-climate, Republican resolution denouncing a carbon tax: “In the same week research was released stating a carbon tax could be implemented without hurting the economy, Congressional Republicans decided to adopt a resolution denouncing a hypothetical carbon tax under the premise that it would be detrimental to the economy. For decades, economists across the ideological spectrum have argued that carbon pricing is the most efficient way to discourage the use of fossil fuels and to energize the growth of energy efficiency measures, alternative energy sources, and market decisions on everything from housing to transportation. Instead of listening to economists or their fellow conservative thought leaders on climate, the GOP has decided to put political talking points before research, data and facts. “History will look back on this House Resolution with sadness and regret. Once again, Republicans have chosen short-term profits of the fossil fuel titans over the long-term survival and prosperity of mankind. The majority of Americans are concerned about human-caused global warming, know climate change is happening and want to see us take action. Every day that we fail to act on the climate crisis puts the economy, environment, public health, and the future of our children at serious risk.”
07.16.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the summit between presidents Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin: “Donald Trump’s performance at his summit with Putin today was the most astonishing display of weakness and submission that I have ever seen from an American President. Trump’s refusal to side with U.S. intelligence and law enforcement instead of a man who ordered attacks on our elections and is an enemy of human rights around the globe should have been shocking. Yet, tragically, this was more of the same self-serving fecklessness that we’ve seen time and again from President Trump. The President’s public debasement of our country to Russia followed a series insults to U.S. allies, including Germany, the United Kingdom, Nato, and the E.U. This has been one of the most disastrous presidential trips abroad in history, and our country will suffer from the damage Trump has just done to America’s reputation for years to come.” Representative Beyer served from 2009-2013 as US Ambassador to Switzerland under President Barack Obama before being elected to Congress.
07.16.2018	Rep. Don Beyer filed an amendment for upcoming appropriations legislation for the Interior, Environment, and related agencies which would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Department of the Interior (DOI) from using federal funds for multiple calendars to conceal details of meetings, calls, and travel from the public. Beyer said: “Unfortunately, ousted EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt engaged in willful dishonesty to the public when it came to revealing to whom he gave influence when conducting official business. Now there is evidence to suggest that Secretary Zinke may have engaged in similar deception. My amendment would end secret schedules at EPA and DOI and help restore transparency, which is essential for holding public officials accountable to the people they represent.” Before his departure, Scott Pruitt was accused by his former Deputy Chief of Staff of deleting meetings from his official schedule. Discrepancies between officially-released schedules and internal emails between Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke and his executive assistant suggest that he may also have intentionally withheld meeting details from the public. Text of that amendment can be found here. Beyer also offered an amendment, with Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), which would increase funding for the EPA’s Office of the Inspector General, which is continuing a number of probes into Pruitt’s misconduct. Text of that amendment is available here.
07.16.2018	Rep. Don Beyer introduced an appropriations amendment which would fund the body camera pilot program for Department of the Interior law enforcement officers. Without such funding the pilot program faces a potential lapse in FY19. “No one can undo Bijan Ghaisar’s tragic death, but this amendment can help with transparency going forward,” said Rep. Beyer. “While we are still awaiting answers in Bijan’s case, we know that our local community and Interior’s law enforcement officers want Interior to join the modern policing age and ensure its uniformed law enforcement officers have body cameras. This amendment will give the Department the funding it needs to help make this a reality.” Rep. Beyer’s longstanding support for law enforcement body and vehicle cameras took on new urgency on November 17th, 2017, when his constituent Bijan Ghaisar was shot multiple times by National Park Police. Ghaisar died days later. His killing is still unexplained, and the FBI investigation is still ongoing with no clear end in sight. Interior is currently paying for the pilot program out of unobligated funding for FY18 and has not made it a funding priority in FY19. The Department of the Interior’s Office of the Inspector General issued a report earlier this year titled, “U.S. Department of the Interior Law Enforcement’s Body Camera Policy and Practices Are Not Consistent With Industry Standards.” Text of the amendment, which was offered with Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), is available here.
07.05.2018	Reps. Don Beyer and Ted Lieu today wrote to the Environmental Protection Agency Inspector General to request an investigation into whether Scott Pruitt violated the Federal Records Act. The letter cited recent reports that Pruitt intentionally hid or falsified records of meetings and discussions with representatives of industries regulated by the EPA. The lawmakers wrote: “We write regarding new allegations that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt intentionally hid or falsified records of meetings and discussions with representatives of industries regulated by the EPA. These allegations, made publicly by one of the Administrator’s former senior aides, are supported by analyses of his public calendars. We request an immediate investigation to determine whether the Administrator violated the Federal Records Act… Congress established and updated these laws because the American people deserve to know how their government is operated, and who is exerting influence over determinations which affect them. We ask that you protect that public trust, and establish whether Administrator Scott Pruitt violated the Federal Records Act, and if so, determine what he concealed and why. Further, we ask that you take the appropriate steps to hold him accountable for such actions, as required by law.” Text of the letter follows, and a signed copy can be found here: The Honorable Arthur A. Elkins, Jr. Inspector General (IG) Office of Inspector General (OIG) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Inspector General Elkins: We write regarding new allegations that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt intentionally hid or falsified records of meetings and discussions with representatives of industries regulated by the EPA.[1] These allegations, made publicly by one of the Administrator’s former senior aides, are supported by analyses of his public calendars. We request an immediate investigation to determine whether the Administrator violated the Federal Records Act. Administrator Scott Pruitt’s former Deputy Chief of Staff told press this week that Pruitt held routine meetings to “’scrub,’ alter or remove from Pruitt's official calendar numerous records because they might ‘look bad.’” He further explained that meetings, events, and phone calls were deliberately omitted from the version of his official calendar that was released to the public. The Administrator, the aide said, “had at one point three different schedules. One of them was one that no one else saw except three or four of us.” Supporting the former aide’s statements, numerous meetings that have been mentioned in news reports—and in some cases even confirmed by EPA spokespeople—do not appear on Pruitt’s officially-released schedule. Omitted meetings include meetings with an energy lobbyist, the CEOs of a shipping company and a coal company, and Cardinal Pell, who was subsequently charged with criminal sexual offenses.[2] The proper maintenance of official federal records is set forth by the Federal Records Act, which defines a record as: “…all recorded information, regardless of form or characteristics, made or received by a Federal agency under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the United States Government or because of the informational value of data in them…”.[3] Willful concealment or destruction of such records is a federal crime carrying penalties ranging from fines to imprisonment.[4] Congress established and updated these laws because the American people deserve to know how their government is operated, and who is exerting influence over determinations which affect them. We ask that you protect that public trust, and establish whether Administrator Scott Pruitt violated the Federal Records Act, and if so, determine what he concealed and why. Further, we ask that you take the appropriate steps to hold him accountable for such actions, as required by law. Sincerely, [1] Bronstein, Devine, Griffin, et al. “Whistleblower: EPA’s Pruitt Kept Secret Calendar To Hide Meetings.” CNN, July 2, 2018. https://www.cnn.com/2018/07/02/politics/scott-pruitt-whistleblower-secret-calendar/index.html [2] Ganim, Sara. “Pruitt Dinner Included Vatican Figure Accused of Sexual Abuse.” CNN, May 11, 2018. https://www.cnn.com/2018/05/11/politics/pruitt-dinner-included-vatican-figure-accused-of-sexual-abuse/index.html [3] 44 U.S. Code § 3301 [4] 18 U.S. Code § 2071
07.05.2018	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today on the departure of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt: “Finally. Scott Pruitt was able to keep his position for so long -- despite astonishing megalomania and unethical behavior – only because of Donald Trump’s historic embrace of corruption. Pruitt acknowledged behavior in Congressional hearings and televised interviews that violated federal regulations and spoke to extreme levels of wasteful spending and abuse of public office. He committed dozens of offenses which would have led to immediate dismissal in any previous administration. Pruitt now joins the growing ranks of ex-Trump officials, a testament to President Trump’s chaotic management style and poor judgment. Sadly, some of those who remain may be nearly as corrupt, as antithetical to the purposes of the agencies they lead, and as willing to besmirch their public offices with dishonest and unethical behavior. Scott Pruitt stood out, even in Donald Trump’s uniquely corrupt administration, for his willingness to cede direct influence and control over EPA policy to industries and special interests which harm public health. His scandals were inextricably linked to his antipathy to environmental protection, and to his close association with those who value profit over clean air and water. The only way to really turn the page on the Pruitt era will be for Trump to appoint an EPA Administrator who is committed to environmental stewardship, and willing to clean house and wrest control of the EPA back from polluters and lobbyists.” Representative Beyer was the first Member of Congress to issue a formal statement calling for Scott Pruitt’s resignation. He led 64 House Democrats urging the President to dismiss Pruitt, and has led numerous oversight initiatives focused on Pruitt’s tenure at the EPA. He serves as the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight, and as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus.
06.29.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today wrote to Daniel R. Levinson, Inspector General (IG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, asking that he expand the investigation into the reports of neglect, and both physical and sexual abuse at shelters housing migrant children. Rep. Beyer urged Levinson to review how the federal government maintains and evaluates contracts with the facilities after concerns of abuse were raised. Further, Rep. Beyer asked the IG to investigate communication and agency guidance regarding Congressional and press access to Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) shelters and affiliated facilities. He wrote: “I am deeply concerned by reports that immigrant children are allegedly being mistreated in federal custody. I am equally concerned that the federal government continues to maintain contracts with the facilities suspected of abuse and that the federal government has denied or limited access both to Members of Congress who have tried to conduct meaningful oversight, and to the press that have attempted to investigate. … “I welcome your office’s investigation into the “conditions at shelters for migrant children.” However, the Tribune report found that the federal government maintained contracts with companies operating immigrant youth shelters even after allegations of serious lapses in care, including neglect and both sexual and physical abuse, were raised. I ask that you further investigate: (1) how contracts are considered; and (2) how they are evaluated after abuse allegations arise. “Additionally, as Members of Congress have tried to engage in oversight to understand the conditions at shelters for migrant children, reports have shown that they were stonewalled or turned away. Similarly, photography and press access has repeatedly been denied and limited. Accordingly, I also ask that you investigate communication and agency guidance regarding Congressional and press access to ORR shelters and affiliated facilities.” A copy of the letter can be found below and here: Daniel R. Levinson Inspector General U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General 330 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20201 Dear Inspector General Levinson: I am deeply concerned by reports that immigrant children are allegedly being mistreated in federal custody. I am equally concerned that the federal government continues to maintain contracts with the facilities suspected of abuse and that the federal government has denied or limited access both to Members of Congress who have tried to conduct meaningful oversight, and to the press that have attempted to investigate. Over the past two weeks, numerous reports have detailed misconduct at Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) affiliated facilities. An NPR account described cases at a Texas shelter where children were being denied human contact and comfort even though human contact and emotional support are essential to child development. [i] [ii] The account also describes a former shelter employee of a Southwest Key shelter in Tucson attesting that the shelter lacked trained staff to handle the influx of younger, more traumatized children. In another report, The Texas Tribune described immigrant children being forcibly injected with drugs at the Shiloh Treatment Center in Manvel, Texas.[iii] Additionally, an Associated Press account of migrant children held at the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center in Staunton, Virginia described children suffering from severe mistreatment and abuse at the hands of guards. These children are reportedly routinely beaten while shackled at the hands and legs, subject to long periods of solitary confinement, and “stripped…of their clothes and strapped…to chairs with bags placed over their heads.”[iv] I welcome your office’s investigation into the “conditions at shelters for migrant children.”[v] However, the Tribune report found that the federal government maintained contracts with companies operating immigrant youth shelters even after allegations of serious lapses in care, including neglect and both sexual and physical abuse, were raised. I ask that you further investigate: (1) how contracts are considered; and (2) how they are evaluated after abuse allegations arise. Additionally, as Members of Congress have tried to engage in oversight to understand the conditions at shelters for migrant children, reports have shown that they were stonewalled or turned away.[vi] Similarly, photography and press access has repeatedly been denied and limited.[vii] Accordingly, I also ask that you investigate communication and agency guidance regarding Congressional and press access to ORR shelters and affiliated facilities. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. [i] “Doctors Concerned About 'Irreparable Harm' To Separated Migrant Children.” NPR, June 15, 2018. https://www.npr.org/2018/06/15/620254326/doctors-warn-about-dangers-of-child-separations; Goudarzi, Sara. “Separating Families May Cause Lifelong Health Damage.” Scientific American, June 20, 2018. https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/separating-families-may-cause-lifelong-health-damage/; [ii] Evan L Ardiel, Catharine H Rankin. “The importance of touch in development.” Paediatr Child Health. 2010 Mar; 15(3): 153–156. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2865952/ [iii] Smith, Matt, Aura Bogado. “Immigrant children forcibly injected with drugs at Texas shelter, lawsuit claims.” The Texas Tribune, June 20, 2018. https://www.texastribune.org/2018/06/20/immigrant-children-forcibly-injected-drugs-lawsuit-claims/ [iv] Biesecker, Michael, Pearson, Jake, Garance Burke. “Governor orders probe of abuse claims by immigrant children.” Associated Press, June 21, 2018. https://apnews.com/afc80e51b562462c89907b49ae624e79 [v] “The Latest: HHS inspector general examining migrant shelters.” Associated Press, June 27, 2018. https://apnews.com/b530dddd504d44e3aecc794f6ddf3ed0?utm_medium=AP&utm_campaign=SocialFlow&utm_source=Twitter [vi] Tillett, Emily. “Senator Jeff Merkley denied entry into one migrant detention facility, claims he saw kids caged in another.” https://www.cbsnews.com/news/senator-jeff-merkley-barred-brownsville-texas-detention-center-refugee-children-2018-06-04/; Replogle, Joshua and Ben Fox. “Senator denied entry to see Florida child migrant facility. Associated Press, June 29, 2018. https://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/senator-denied-entry-florida-child-migrant-facility-56018595 [vii] Waldow, Julia and Emily Kohlman. “This is why there are so few pictures of migrant children.” CNNMoney, June 20, 2018. http://money.cnn.com/2018/06/20/media/media-press-photos-migrant-children/index.html
06.29.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today released the following statement on the close of the fifth annual Immigration Heritage Month: “Immigrant Heritage Month celebrates the fact that the United States is a nation of immigrants, built by immigrants. Sadly, too many people in positions of power have forgotten this core facet of America’s identity, or worse, are working to end it. During June, I met parents who haven’t seen their children in months because of policies put in place by the Trump Administration. I spoke to children who fled life-threatening situations in other countries and came here, only to face legal hurdles and government machinery set against them by the Department of Homeland Security. I voted against Republican bills which offered no relief to families separated by Trump’s zero tolerance policy, and which treated Dreamers as hostages to be given protection only in exchange for funding Trump’s border wall. Immigrants have been an essential part of our country’s economy and culture since the Revolution, and remain so today. The good news is that most Americans cherish immigrant heritage, and oppose the xenophobic policies being pushed by the White House which betray our nation’s values. The outcome of this moral struggle will define what the United States represents to the world for decades to come.”
06.27.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today led 77 Democrats in a letter to Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) Alex Azar and Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) Director Scott Lloyd. They sought answers regarding allegations of mistreatment toward migrant children currently in the custody of ORR, and expressed concerns about ORR’s process of releasing children, which is exacerbating family separation. The letter asked HHS and ORR to address the allegations, and allow Members to meet the children and visit the facilities where they are being held. The lawmakers also requested ORR make clear what steps are being taken to reunite children with their parents who were forcibly separated at the border. They wrote: “We are deeply concerned by recent reports that the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) is allegedly mistreating children in custody. We understand that these are allegations, and we want to give you the opportunity to refute and explain what is happening to children in your care. We also are willing to visit shelters, meet with staff and meet children in these facilities. … “According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, ‘highly stressful experiences, like family separation, can cause irreparable harm, disrupting a child’s brain architecture and affecting his or her short- and long-term health. This type of prolonged exposure to serious stress - known as toxic stress - can carry lifelong consequences for children.’” … “There are also documented cases of abuse and mismanagement at ORR-affiliated facilities. According to the Associated Press, migrant children held at the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center in Staunton, Virginia are suffering from severe mistreatment and abuse at the hands of guards. These children are reportedly routinely beaten while shackled at the hands and legs, subject to long periods of solitary confinement, and ‘stripped…of their clothes and strapped…to chairs with bags placed over their heads.’ Such allegations of abusive treatment are particularly disturbing since, according to the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center, many of these children—as young as 14 years of age—suffer from severe mental health issues related to the trauma faced in their home countries. … “We would also like to understand the steps ORR is taking to reunite children with parents who were forcibly separated at the Southern border. We are concerned that ORR is failing to effectively coordinate with DHS to ensure communication and reunification for separated children and their parents. Many parents do not know where their children are detained, or how they will reconnect and reunite with them. Advocates and lawyers also report that an April DHS-HHS Memorandum of Agreement mandating continuous information sharing has both exacerbated family separation and undermined protections for children.” Text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. Secretary Alex M. Azar II The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Hubert H. Humphrey Building 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Director Scott Lloyd Office of Refugee Resettlement Administration for Children and Families U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Mary E. Switzer Building 330 C ST SW Washington DC 20201 Dear Secretary Azar and Director Lloyd: We are deeply concerned by recent reports that the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) is allegedly mistreating children in custody. We understand that these are allegations, and we want to give you the opportunity to refute and explain what is happening to children in your care. We also are willing to visit shelters, meet with staff and meet children in these facilities. We understand that more than 10,000 migrant children currently reside in ORR custody. Many of these children are at critical stages in their development and many are under the age of thirteen. Also, a majority of these children enter ORR with a history of stress and trauma. After forced displacement from their home country due to uncontrolled gang and gender violence, travel to the United States with exposures to temperature extremes, injury, sleep deprivation and sometimes violence or kidnapping, these children are vulnerable and fragile. We are deeply troubled by the Trump Administration’s family separation policy. There is absolutely no reason why these children, who have already been traumatized, should be forced to experience the worst trauma possible, the loss of a parent or caregiver. Stress is worsened when children are removed from their families and placed in inappropriate custody arrangements. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, “highly stressful experiences, like family separation, can cause irreparable harm, disrupting a child’s brain architecture and affecting his or her short- and long-term health. This type of prolonged exposure to serious stress - known as toxic stress - can carry lifelong consequences for children.’’ There are several documented cases of abuse and mismanagement at ORR shelters. According to an NPR account, a former shelter employee of a Southwest Key shelter in Tucson reported that the shelter lacked trained staff to handle the influx of younger, more traumatized children. The NPR account also described cases at a Texas shelter where children were being denied human contact and comfort even though human contact and emotional support are essential to child development. A Texas Tribune report described immigrant children being forcibly injected with drugs at the Shiloh Treatment Center in Manvel, Texas. It also found that private companies received more than $1.5 billion in the past four years to operate immigrant youth shelters, even though these shelters were accused of serious lapses in care, including neglect and sexual and physical abuse. In nearly all these cases, the Tribune report found that the federal government still continued contracts with the companies after these allegations were raised. There are also documented cases of abuse and mismanagement at ORR-affiliated facilities. According to the Associated Press, migrant children held at the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center in Staunton, Virginia are suffering from severe mistreatment and abuse at the hands of guards. These children are reportedly routinely beaten while shackled at the hands and legs, subject to long periods of solitary confinement, and “stripped…of their clothes and strapped…to chairs with bags placed over their heads.” Such allegations of abusive treatment are particularly disturbing since, according to the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center, many of these children—as young as 14 years of age—suffer from severe mental health issues related to the trauma faced in their home countries. Abuse of children is never acceptable and we are concerned that these immigrant children, with their existing vulnerabilities, are falling prey to neglect and intentional harm. We look forward to hearing the ways in which ORR is responding to these allegations and the steps you are taking to revoke government contracts when appropriate. We would also like to understand the steps ORR is taking to reunite children with parents who were forcibly separated at the Southern border. We are concerned that ORR is failing to effectively coordinate with DHS to ensure communication and reunification for separated children and their parents. Many parents do not know where their children are detained, or how they will reconnect and reunite with them. Advocates and lawyers also report that an April DHS-HHS Memorandum of Agreement mandating continuous information sharing has both exacerbated family separation and undermined protections for children. The memorandum has made it difficult for ORR to secure sponsors because it requires potential sponsors’ fingerprints, the fingerprints of all adults living in the potential sponsor’s home, and other data be sent to ICE. ICE has publicly stated its intent to use that information to identify people subject to immigration arrest and deportation. The collective operation of these policies keeps children apart from parents and family members for weeks, months, or even years longer than they might have otherwise, exacerbating family separation. We are concerned that ORR, an office within the Department of Health and Human Services, is failing to protect the health of these children and is actively working in ways that harm children. We ask that ORR work with the American Academy of Pediatrics, Save the Children, and UNICEF to ensure that children are treated appropriately. We look forward to reviewing your response to these important concerns in a prompt fashion. Sincerely,
06.27.2018	In the wake of fresh evidence that the oil and gas industry’s methane emissions are far greater than previously thought, Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) and four House Democratic colleagues today sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt urging him to reinstate a formal Information Collection Request (ICR) to the industry that he canceled in early 2017. The letter comes as a new report in the journal Science found that methane emissions from the U.S. oil and gas supply chain were roughly 60 percent higher than EPA estimates. The full letter is available at http://bit.ly/2Kss6Dg. Shortly after Pruitt joined the EPA, the agency announced on March 2, 2017, that it was withdrawing ICR 2548.01, which would have required oil and gas companies to provide information on methane emissions from their operations. On March 8, 2017, Grijalva and Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.), ranking member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, sent Pruitt a letter asking him to reinstate the ICR, highlighting the urgent need to collect accurate data on methane emissions and enforce appropriate reduction standards. On May 23, 2017, the acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation responded that the ICR was withdrawn to “allow the Administrator time to assess the need for the requested information.” The authors of today’s letter – Grijalva, Lowenthal, Natural Resources Committee member Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.), and Reps. Jared Polis and DeGette, both Democrats of Colorado – cite several developments since that exchange as grounds for reinstating the ICR: In May 2017, the Senate rejected the Republican efforts to use the Congressional Review Act to repeal the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) methane waste rule, indicating strong bipartisan support for regulations reducing methane emissions. Both BLM and the EPA have since moved to undo, weaken, or avoid promulgating methane regulations, which today’s authors write “should be informed with the best available science, not vague notions of industry ‘burdens’ and incomplete knowledge of the public benefit of cutting emissions.” The most recent release of EPA’s Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks showed that from 1990 to 2016, methane emissions from natural gas production operations outpaced the growth of natural gas production, 58 percent to 52 percent, respectively. In addition, as the authors point out today, a recent New York Times analysis finds that the 13 million metric tons of methane lost by the oil and gas industry each year are worth approximately $2 billion and would be enough to fuel roughly 10 million homes. The authors write in part: With new science showing that emissions are likely considerably higher than previously thought, there is no excuse for delaying or rescinding methane emission controls, or for failing to collect data from methane emitters. We believe that EPA needs to reissue the ICR as soon as possible, or provide a comprehensive explanation why it will not. The authors ask Pruitt to “provide us with the results of your assessment of the need to require methane emission data, as mentioned in the May 23, 2017, response, including a full explanation of how those results were arrived at. If that assessment is not done, please inform us of when you expect to complete it.”
06.27.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling in Janus v. AFSCME: “This terrible ruling continues decades of Republican attacks on workers’ right to organize. The thousands of civil servants, teachers, police officers, firefighters, and other public-sector employees I represent will see their collective bargaining power significantly weakened by this decision. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court’s majority has spent the month of June concentrating power in the hands of entrenched interests at the expense of American laborers, unions, immigrants, refugees, and the disenfranchised. This is exactly the kind of anti-worker outcome we knew to expect when a Trump-appointed judge was confirmed to a stolen Supreme Court seat.” Congressman Beyer represents the largest number of federal employees of any Member of the House of Representatives.
06.26.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision in Trump v. Hawaii: “I believe that the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold Donald Trump’s Muslim ban will go down as one of the worst mistakes in the Court’s history. Chief Justice Roberts and the Justices who concurred in his opinion chose to intentionally overlook the obvious animus of bigotry which was the sole motivation for every iteration of the Muslim ban. It is clear in hindsight that prejudice was the inspiration behind every Muslim ban. To this day none of the bans has produced any substantive process changes to how the country admits travelers and immigrants beyond simply preventing people from certain races or religions the ability to come to the United States. Justice Sotomayor was exactly right to point out that ‘a reasonable observer would conclude that the proclamation was driven primarily by anti-Muslim animus.’ This historically awful decision is the direct result of Senate Republicans’ theft of a seat on the Supreme Court from President Obama, which remains one of the most shameful and destructive political events in my lifetime. Last year I introduced legislation, the Freedom of Religion Act, which would end Trump’s Muslim bans and bar him from preventing anyone from entering the country solely on the basis of their religion. Today I call for Congress to pass my bill and reject Donald Trump’s religious bigotry once and for all.” The Freedom of Religion Act, H.R. 852, has 118 cosponsors in the 115th Congress. Gold Star father Khizr Khan stood next to Rep. Beyer when he announced the introduction of the bill, shortly after Donald Trump’s announcement of his first Muslim ban. Text of the bill is available here.
06.20.2018	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD) today visited an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) contracted facility today in Anne Arundel County to see the effects of the Trump Administration’s family separation policy in person. There they met two fathers, Carlos and Mario (last names withheld for their protection), who had been separated from their young children for months without being able to speak with them. Rep. Beyer said: “Today I went to an ICE-affiliated detention facility to get a sense of what was happening with Donald Trump’s family separation policy at the border. I spoke with Carlos and Mario, who were separated from their children, a 7-year-old boy and a 5-year-old girl, earlier this year. What they told me was sickening. Carlos fled gang violence in Honduras with his 7-year-old son by train, and surrendered himself at the border in El Paso to CBP in March. Carlos told us he was imprisoned for 1-2 days with his legs chained together but still in custody of his son. Then he was separated from his son and transferred to Maryland. He was only able to connect with his son after months without speaking to him because his son had memorized a number for a family member back in Honduras. That family member was able to connect with a family friend in the States who was then finally able to connect them. Mario is also from Honduras. His sister was a victim of domestic violence committed by a local government official. He said that when they attempted to press charges through the legal system, Mario was attacked and beaten up by a gang of 4-5 men. They fled for their lives, taking buses from Honduras through Mexico with Mario’s 5-year-old daughter. They crossed the border and surrendered to CBP, which placed them together in an ‘ICE box’ for three days. Mario said his sister has since been granted asylum. After three days at the ICE facility, Mario said an officer approached him and told him to give up his daughter, or she would be taken away. He said his 5-year-old girl was dragged away from him crying and screaming, which was the last time he saw her. He was unable to talk to her for months. He was finally able to make contact with her last week, but he still does not know where she is being held. Both of these young fathers were in tears throughout our conversation, and remain deeply worried about their children. They both also told us that they have not had access to legal counsel. There isn't a law requiring Trump to do this, previous presidents did not have zero tolerance policies that led to this kind of family separation. They did not punish asylum-seekers at the border like Trump and Sessions are doing, intentionally. Family separation is wrong, it is a moral outrage, and I will be working with my colleagues in Congress to stop it. We should have zero tolerance for destroying families.” Officials at the ICE facility were unaware that some of their detainees included fathers who had been separated from their children. They stated that the officers of Customs and Border Patrol (CBP), which apprehends people at the border, have failed to share family details and contact information. Photography was not permitted inside the facility, but a video describing the encounter recorded by Rep. Beyer after he exited the facility is available here. Rep. Beyer previously attempted to eliminate funding for the Trump family separation policy with an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, which was blocked by Republican leadership on the Rules Committee. He also joined over 100 Representatives on a formal appropriations request led by Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) to remove funding for the program. He is an original cosponsor of the Keep Families Together Act, which would end the policy.
06.20.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today called for the resignation of Kirstjen Nielsen, Secretary of Homeland Security in the Trump Administration. Beyer said: “Yesterday I witnessed firsthand the cruelty being inflicted upon people seeking asylum in the United States by our own government. The distraught fathers I met at a detention facility represented only two of the thousands of families which have suffered under the Trump Administration’s family separation policy, but their stories were deeply disturbing. Both fathers had been separated from their young children for months without being able to even speak to them, a hardship I cannot imagine as a parent. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials I met at their detention center had not been provided basic family details about these men and other detainees by Customs and Border Patrol, which apprehended them. Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen administers both agencies, within the Department of Homeland Security, and she is ultimately responsible for the inhumane treatment caused by her own failure of leadership. Secretary Nielsen has become the public face of an immoral and deeply unpopular policy. At the same time, she has strained Americans’ trust in government by repeatedly denying that the family separation policy existed, even as that policy was touted by her colleagues in the White House and brandished by President Trump and Attorney General Sessions. The time has come for Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen to resign. If she will not resign, she should be fired by the President.” Rep. Beyer visited an Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) affiliated facility yesterday, where he met with Carlos and Mario (last names withheld for their protection), fathers of a 7-year-old boy and a 5-year-old girl, who had been separated from their children without contact for months. More details of that visit are available here.
06.20.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today excoriated the Trump Administration over its continuing healthcare sabotage, after the release of a new “association health plan” rule allowing for more junk plans which lack basic protections. “Virginians are facing the potential for premium increases of over 50%, and Donald Trump is just trying to make it worse,” said Rep. Beyer. “This association health plan rule is designed to allow more businesses and self-employed workers to purchase junk insurance plans, further weakening Americans’ health care and undermining essential health benefit protections. Donald Trump and his Republican allies in Congress must stop their sabotage, which is driving up costs for working people, and allow the passage of bipartisan legislation to repair the damage.” Virginia was one of the first states to see requests from health insurers for huge premium increases of up to 64 percent, many of which cited health care decisions by the Trump Administration as driving up costs. Rep. Beyer previously led 64 House Democrats urging the President to stop raising healthcare costs for the middle class.
06.19.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today signed on as a cosponsor to the Keep Families Together Act, which would formally abolish the Trump Administration’s recently-enacted policy of separating children from their parents in families seeking asylum at the U.S. border. The legislation, introduced today by Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) is the House companion of an identical Senate bill introduced by Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA). “Donald Trump’s family separation policy is immoral and Congress must put a stop to it,” said Rep. Beyer. “Treating legal asylum-seekers, many of whom are fleeing violence which endangers their lives, in such a cruel manner is a violation of our country’s values and internationally-accepted agreements on human rights. Congress must put basic decency above partisan loyalties and immediately end this program which harkens back to some of the darkest moments in our nation’s history.” Rep. Beyer previously attempted to eliminate funding for the Trump family separation policy with an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, which was blocked by Republican leadership on the Rules Committee. He also joined over 100 Representatives on a formal appropriations request led by Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) to remove funding for the program.
06.14.2018	Days after a Centers for Disease Control (CDC) study showed dramatic increases in suicide rates across the country, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and John Katko (R-NY) wrote to House appropriators seeking increased funding for an array of federal suicide prevention programs. Beyer and Katko are the co-founders of the bipartisan House Suicide Prevention Task Force. They wrote: “As you continue FY 2019 Appropriations deliberations, we write to request increased funding for suicide prevention programs. The recent celebrity deaths of designer Kate Spade and then chef and restaurateur Anthony Bourdain have brought suicide into the national limelight once again. Unfortunately, these deaths are a tiny fraction of the tens of thousands of individuals we will lose to suicide this year. … This data shows that it is imperative that Congress commit to $150 million for suicide prevention research within the National Institutes of Mental Health. In addition to recognizing the urgent need for greater research, we are also concerned that funding has remained flat or decreased for many suicide prevention programs in recent years. … The spike in calls to the Lifeline following the recent celebrity deaths and the new CDC data reinforce the urgency and magnitude of this epidemic. Congress cannot afford to continue to undercut investments in critical programs that help prevent suicide. We need to be doing more to combat suicide, not less.” Full text of the letter follows below, and a signed copy is available here. The Honorable Rodney P. Frelinghuysen Chairman Committee on Appropriations H-305, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Nita M. Lowey Ranking Member Committee on Appropriations 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Frelinghuysen and Ranking Member Lowey: As you continue FY 2019 Appropriations deliberations, we write to request increased funding for suicide prevention programs. The recent celebrity deaths of designer Kate Spade and then chef and restaurateur Anthony Bourdain have brought suicide into the national limelight once again. Unfortunately, these deaths are a tiny fraction of the tens of thousands of individuals we will lose to suicide this year. Suicides do not occur in a vacuum and one incident can influence others to take their lives, a phenomenon known as contagion or clustering. The deaths of well-known celebrities also contribute to this effect. For example, after the death of Ms. Spade, calls to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline increased by 25 percent. Of even greater concern is new CDC data showing that suicide rates surged in nearly every state over a 17-year period ending in 2016. A quarter of states saw a 30 percent spike in suicide deaths. Suicide is now one of three leading causes of death in the U.S. that are on the rise, joining Alzheimer's disease and drug overdose. Congress has taken steps to more effectively address Alzheimer’s disease and drug overdoses caused by opioids, but we can do more when it comes to suicide prevention. This data shows that it is imperative that Congress commit to $150 million for suicide prevention research within the National Institutes of Mental Health. In addition to recognizing the urgent need for greater research, we are also concerned that funding has remained flat or decreased for many suicide prevention programs in recent years. At the DOD, $25.628 million was allocated for the defense suicide prevention office in FY16, compared to $8.324 million for FY17 and an estimated $5.401 million for FY18. At the CDC, $48.950 million was allocated for injury prevention activities in FY15, and only $28.950 in FY18. Under SAMHSA, funding has remained flat since FY14 for the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, the American Indian/Alaskan Native Suicide Prevention Initiative, and the Garrett Lee Smith Youth Suicide Prevention Program. The spike in calls to the Lifeline following the recent celebrity deaths and the new CDC data reinforce the urgency and magnitude of this epidemic. Congress cannot afford to continue to undercut investments in critical programs that help prevent suicide. We need to be doing more to combat suicide, not less. We urge you to increase funding for the programs that work to prevent suicide.
06.14.2018	Reps. Don Beyer (VA-08) and Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) today led 71 Democrats in a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt expressing grave concerns over his May 9th memorandum regarding future National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) reviews and standard setting. The memo asks the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) to consider “adverse social, economic, or energy effects related to NAAQS” during the standard-setting process. This would result in insufficient standards that would cause undue harm to the health of millions of Americans, and would also set a dangerous precedent for setting future EPA standards. The Members wrote: “We are deeply concerned with your May 9th memorandum regarding future National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) reviews and standard setting. … “Your memo specifically asks the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) to consider ‘adverse social, economic, or energy effects related to NAAQS’ during the standard-setting process. Currently, cost considerations inform implementation of the health standards, but not their establishment. The Supreme Court unanimously confirmed this point in Whitman v. American Trucking Associations, 531 U.S. 457 (2001), ruling that EPA may not consider implementation costs in setting NAAQS. … “Allowing the consideration of factors other than health in setting future NAAQS would not only result in inadequate standards that would cause undue harm to the health of millions of Americans, it would also set a dangerous precedent for setting EPA standards. Your memo calls for the expedited review of two pollutants, particulate matter and ozone, which have the potential to aggravate asthma, increase the severity of chronic lung diseases, damage the lungs, cause cardiovascular harm, and even cause death. … “Using the CASAC as the vehicle to make this change is also very concerning given your decision to bar scientists that receive agency funding from acting on advisory boards. This action diminishes the input from the world’s best scientists and we fear it will advantage the economic arguments of industry to the detriment of public health. … “Your memo’s stratagem—formally directing CASAC to consider non-health factors during the standard-setting process, before final standards are adopted—is highly objectionable. We, therefore, urge you to withdraw the improper charge to CASAC at once, and to make clear that CASAC—and EPA—will remain focused exclusively on the adverse public health effects that the Clean Air Act and a unanimous Supreme Court confirm are the only relevant statutory considerations during the health standard-setting processes. “The Clean Air Act has been an overwhelming success for the health of Americans. We urge you not to backslide on that legacy.” Text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. The Honorable E. Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We are deeply concerned with your May 9th memorandum regarding future National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) reviews and standard setting. Section 109(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act directs EPA to establish “ambient air quality standards the attainment and maintenance of which in the judgment of the Administrator, based on such criteria and allowing an adequate margin of safety, are requisite to protect the public health.” Health is the sole criterion for setting the primary standard. Yet your memo invites that criterion to include economic costs. Your memo specifically asks the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) to consider “adverse social, economic, or energy effects related to NAAQS” during the standard-setting process. Currently, cost considerations inform implementation of the health standards, but not their establishment. The Supreme Court unanimously confirmed this point in Whitman v. American Trucking Associations, 531 U.S. 457 (2001), ruling that EPA may not consider implementation costs in setting NAAQS. The health-based NAAQS have driven lifesaving air pollution cleanup for decades. According to EPA’s own analysis, from 1970 to 2015, aggregate national emissions of the six criteria pollutants dropped an average of 70 percent – even as GDP grew by 246 percent. The agency also found that steps taken under the Clean Air Act, including implementing and enforcing the NAAQS, will prevent 230,000 premature deaths in the year 2020 alone. The work of the Clean Air Act and the NAAQS is far from finished, as more than four in ten Americans still live in areas where levels of ozone or particle pollution make the air unhealthy to breathe. Allowing the consideration of factors other than health in setting future NAAQS would not only result in inadequate standards that would cause undue harm to the health of millions of Americans, it would also set a dangerous precedent for setting EPA standards. Your memo calls for the expedited review of two pollutants, particulate matter and ozone, which have the potential to aggravate asthma, increase the severity of chronic lung diseases, damage the lungs, cause cardiovascular harm, and even cause death. Emerging research shows links to additional health harms. Those at increased risk include children, seniors, pregnant women, people with chronic lung and heart disease, people who work or exercise outdoors, people of color, and lower-income communities. Weakening these public health and clean air standards to help industry will not eliminate costs, it will merely shift them to communities, workers, and children, and increase the cost of medical care for those affected. Using the CASAC as the vehicle to make this change is also very concerning given your decision to bar scientists that receive agency funding from acting on advisory boards. This action diminishes the input from the world’s best scientists and we fear it will advantage the economic arguments of industry to the detriment of public health. It is clear from the Clean Air Act’s text, “allowing an adequate margin of safety,” that the intent of Congress is to err on the side of caution to protect human and environmental health. Any leniency to ozone and particulate matter NAAQS as a favor to industry resulting from these reviews will only endanger health and the intent of the Act. There is a highly problematic, internal contradiction at the heart of your memorandum and your charge to CASAC. In describing the controlling legal precedent, your memo claims that “adverse public health… effects” from attaining a standard are “relevant to the standard-setting process.” The memo then uses ellipses to omit that the other impacts related to implementation of the standard, may be considered only after that standard has been set: namely economic impacts, energy effects, etc. that may result from various attainment strategies. Despite this, your memo’s ‘charge questions’ to CASAC asks them to “advise the Administrator of any adverse public health, welfare, social, economic, or energy effects which may result from various strategies for attainment and maintenance of such NAAQS” during the standard-setting process. This charge question to CASAC contradicts the memo’s recognition of the restrictions in the controlling Supreme Court decision. The memo notes that your charge may “elicit information which is not relevant to the standard-setting process, but provides important policy context for the public, co-regulators, and EPA.” CASAC must only consider adverse public health effects--from the air pollutant itself--that are relevant to the standard-setting process, during that process. CASAC should not consider alleged health effects related to attainment strategies, and CASAC certainly must not consider economic or energy effects allegedly resulting from those implementation strategies, during any health standard-setting process. Your memo’s stratagem—formally directing CASAC to consider non-health factors during the standard-setting process, before final standards are adopted—is highly objectionable. We, therefore, urge you to withdraw the improper charge to CASAC at once, and to make clear that CASAC—and EPA—will remain focused exclusively on the adverse public health effects that the Clean Air Act and a unanimous Supreme Court confirm are the only relevant statutory considerations during the health standard-setting processes. The Clean Air Act has been an overwhelming success for the health of Americans. We urge you not to backslide on that legacy. Sincerely,
06.11.2018	Democratic Members of the Subcommittee on Oversight sent a letter last week to Oversight Chairman Ralph Abraham requesting that he hold a hearing on a White House memo that suggested ignoring climate science was one option the Trump Administration should consider. “Ignoring science and pushing political agendas that may be welcomed by industry, but harmful to the health, safety and security of all Americans should never be acceptable to the Science Committee or its members regardless of their political party,” wrote Subcommittee on Oversight Ranking Member Don Beyer (D-VA) and Subcommittee Minority Members Jerry McNerney (D-CA) and Ed Perlmutter (D-CO). “Please help us hold these officials responsible to the public,” they wrote. The suggestion to “ignore” science as one policy option regarding climate change was suggested in a memo prepared for senior White House and federal agency officials last fall by Michael Catanzaro, former Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Energy and Environmental Policy, according to a recent story in the Washington Post. Mr. Catanzaro, who joined the Trump Administration in 2017 from the CGCN Group, where he was a lobbyist for the oil and gas industry returned to CGCN in April 2018. However, the Members pointed out in the letter to Chairman Abraham, “the implications of his ‘ignore science’ memo still warrant a thorough review and appropriate oversight from the Science Committee – it speaks volumes as to how this Administration handles scientific evidence.”
06.11.2018	Rep. Don Beyer released the following statement today honoring LGBTQ Pride Month, which began June 1: “Thousands gathered in the nation’s capital this past weekend to celebrate Pride Month, as we honored the triumphs LGBTQ Americans continue to make to advance freedom and equality in our country. Because of the tireless advocacy of LGBTQ leaders, we live in a more just society, and we are closer to confirming the Commonwealth’s old adage, ‘Virginia is for Lovers.’ “With the recent Supreme Court decision in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, we are reminded that obstacles of hate and prejudice remain. Yet, Pride also reminds us that although challenges lie ahead, equality is within reach, and worth fighting for. Today, and every day, we live in that spirit and vow to build a brighter, more hopeful future for the LGBTQ community and for all Americans.”
06.08.2018	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today led a group of US Representatives asking the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Department of Justice (DOJ) to open a criminal investigation into EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt for potential violation of corruption laws. The letter was signed by Reps. Beyer, Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA). The members wrote: “We write you with grave concerns that Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Pruitt has used his public office and official, taxpayer-funded resources for the personal gain of himself and his family, in violation of federal law. This week’s revelation that Administrator Pruitt used his public office – including both his position and EPA staff – to attempt to get his wife a Chick-fil-A franchise is the latest in a string of unethical spending and management decisions that have given rise to twelve federal investigations. Administrator Pruitt directly, and admittedly, used EPA resources to attempt to secure a job for his wife. … Pruitt later made another attempt to secure his wife a job using his position at the EPA. Pruitt reportedly approached Matthew Swift, the chief executive of Concordia, a New York nonprofit. Swift later paid Marlyn Pruitt $2,000, plus travel expenses, to help with logistics for the group’s annual conference in September – a conference at which Administrator Pruitt spoke. … Despite Pruitt’s testimony to the contrary before Congress, documents from the firm of Pruitt’s lobbyist-landlord showed that he lobbied the EPA several times on behalf of clients. Companies represented by the firm of Pruitt’s landlord also benefitted from EPA decisions during Pruitt’s stay in the townhouse—the extent of which we still do not fully know. … At the very least, we know that federal ethics laws bar public officials from using their position or staff for private gain. Administrator Pruitt has certainly done just that. Further, his actions related to his wife’s employment and the quid-pro-quo condo situation with industry lobbyists may have crossed a line into criminal conduct punishable by fines or even by time in prison. We formally request that the FBI open an investigation into Administrator Scott Pruitt’s conduct to assess whether he broke the law, including criminal statutes prohibiting public corruption.” Full text of the letter follows, and a signed copy is available here. The Honorable Christopher A. Wray Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20535 The Honorable John P. Cronan Acting Assistant Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal Division 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Director Wray and Acting Assistant Attorney General Cronan: We write you with grave concerns that Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Pruitt has used his public office and official, taxpayer-funded resources for the personal gain of himself and his family, in violation of federal law. This week’s revelation that Administrator Pruitt used his public office – including both his position and EPA staff – to attempt to get his wife a Chick-fil-A franchise is the latest in a string of unethical spending and management decisions that have given rise to twelve federal investigations. Administrator Pruitt directly, and admittedly, used EPA resources to attempt to secure a job for his wife. E-mails released to the Sierra Club under Freedom of Information Act requests showed that Sydney Hupp, then a scheduler for Administrator Pruitt, contacted Chick-fil-A’s Chief Executive Officer Dan Cathy in May 2017 per Pruitt’s request to set up a meeting regarding a “potential business opportunity.” When Pruitt spoke with Chick-fil-A, he revealed then that the “business opportunity” was a request that his wife become a Chick-fil-A franchisee.[1] Following these reports, Administrator Pruitt seemingly confirmed to a reporter that he had in fact used his office to help his wife become a Chick-fil-A franchisee. When asked to explain the reports, Pruitt responded: “…look, my wife is an entrepreneur herself, I love, she loves, we love Chick-Fil-A as a, as a franchise of faith, and it's one of the best in the country, and so, that's something we were very excited about… So, and we need more of them in Tulsa and we need more of them across the country… So anyway it's an exciting time.”[2] Pruitt later made another attempt to secure his wife a job using his position at the EPA. Pruitt reportedly approached Matthew Swift, the chief executive of Concordia, a New York nonprofit. Swift later paid Marlyn Pruitt $2,000, plus travel expenses, to help with logistics for the group’s annual conference in September – a conference at which Administrator Pruitt spoke. Further, Administrator Pruitt agreed to a meeting with Swift the week after the event in September, met with Swift again in February, and planned a number of other meetings—some disclosed, but a number of undisclosed meetings as well—stemming from the conference his wife organized for Concordia.[3] It remains unclear whether the EPA under Administrator Pruitt has taken actions that might benefit these organizations and companies since those meetings. April reports revealed that Administrator Pruitt had worked out a special deal on condominium rent with the wife of an industry lobbyist who represents companies regulated by the EPA and who was an active contributor to his political career. Pruitt had been paying just $50/night for a Capitol Hill condominium, and only for the nights he used a bedroom in the townhouse, a sum well below the market value.[4] Pruitt’s daughter also stayed in the townhouse in a separate room, at no added cost. Despite Pruitt’s testimony to the contrary before Congress, documents from the firm of Pruitt’s lobbyist-landlord showed that he lobbied the EPA several times on behalf of clients.[5] Companies represented by the firm of Pruitt’s landlord also benefitted from EPA decisions during Pruitt’s stay in the townhouse—the extent of which we still do not fully know.[6] The townhouse is also a known GOP fundraiser site, and several fundraisers were held during the timeframe that Administrator Pruitt was staying there. Pruitt did not report the details of this concerning arrangement to ethics counsel at the EPA, nor to the public, beforehand. At the very least, we know that federal ethics laws bar public officials from using their position or staff for private gain.[7] Administrator Pruitt has certainly done just that. Further, his actions related to his wife’s employment and the quid-pro-quo condo situation with industry lobbyists may have crossed a line into criminal conduct punishable by fines or even by time in prison. We formally request that the FBI open an investigation into Administrator Scott Pruitt’s conduct to assess whether he broke the law, including criminal statutes prohibiting public corruption. Sincerely, Cc: The Honorable AnnaLou Tirol, Acting Chief, Public Integrity Section, U.S. Department of Justice, Public Integrity Section, 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20530 [1] Eilperin, Dennis, and Dawsey, “Scott Pruitt Enlisted an EPA Aide to Help His Wife Find a Job – with Chick-fil-A,” Washington Post, June 5, 2018, accessed here: https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/scott-pruitt-enlisted-an-epa-aide-to-help-his-wife-find-a-job--at-chick-fil-a/2018/06/05/b798e4e4-5eac-11e8-9ee3-49d6d4814c4c_story.html?utm_term=.b110ece5cc23 [2] Jessica Smith on Twitter: https://twitter.com/JessicaASmith8/status/1004421219888848897 [3] According to the Sierra Club e-mails, Pruitt met with Nate Morris, CEO of Rubicon Global, a Georgia-based waste and recycling company, financier T. Boone Pickens and Andrew Littlefair, co-founders of natural gas transportation company Clean Energy, and Concordia leadership council members George Logothetis, a Greek shipping magnate, among others. https://www.politico.com/newsletters/morning-energy/2018/06/06/rfs-changes-on-hold-243068 [4] Lipton, Eric, “Pruitt Had a $50-a-Day Condo Linked to Lobbyists. Their Client’s Project Got Approved,” The New York Times, April 2, 2018, accessed here: https://www.nytimes.com/2018/04/02/climate/epa-pruitt-pipeline-apartment.html [5] Biesecker, Michael, “Lobbyist Tied To EPA Chief’s Condo Tried To Influence Agency,” Associated Press, June 2, 2018, https://www.apnews.com/374e522f4a5b47e58db436f7c43832cd [6] Visser, Nick, “EPA Reportedly Approved Pipeline Project Linked to Lobbyist Renting Room to Pruitt,” The Huffington Post, April 3, 2018, accessed here: https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/scott-pruitt-pipeline-project-apartment_us_5ac307bbe4b04646b64577c3 [7] 5 C.F.R. § 2635.702 provides that “An employee shall not use his public office for his own private gain, for the endorsement of any product, service or enterprise, or for the private gain of friends, relatives, or persons with whom the employee is affiliated in a nongovernmental capacity, including nonprofit organizations of which the employee is an officer or member, and persons with whom the employee has or seeks employment or business relations”. Accessed here: https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/5/2635.702
06.07.2018	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today led more than 30 Democrats in a letter to Energy Secretary Rick Perry opposing the Administration’s baseless plan to use emergency authorities to intervene in planned power plant retirements. The lawmakers urged the Trump administration and Secretary Perry to stop using the false narrative that emergency authorities must be used to prop up coal plants for grid resilience. They wrote: “We write regarding our concerns with President Trump’s directive on “Fuel-Secure Power Facilities,” the draft “Grid Memo” to the National Security Council, and FirstEnergy Solutions’ bailout request. We ask that you cease the false narrative that bailing out uneconomic energy sources in competitive markets is needed for electrical grid resilience, and to cease attempting to use emergency authorities to intervene in planned power plant retirements. Using emergency authorities for unsubstantiated bailouts would be unprecedented intervention in U.S. energy markets at great taxpayer expense. “Last year, under your direction, the Department of Energy tried to use Section 403 authority under the Department of Energy Organization Act to initiate a rulemaking at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). This attempted rulemaking was to create new rules that would provide cost recovery to merchant coal and nuclear plants, asserting that they are essential to resiliency. FERC unanimously voted to terminate that proposal, noting that the evidence did not support the Department’s arguments. … “Using emergency authorities to bail out energy resources that are not critical to grid resilience and reliability is irresponsible at best, and sets a dangerous precedent of abusing these emergency authorities to bail out any pet project or pet energy source. Given the lack of any specific evidence suggesting that the affected closing plants are needed, the precedent could later be used to prop up any energy source that is uncompetitive in competitive markets.” Full text of the letter follows, and a copy with signatures may be viewed here. June 7, 2018 The Honorable Rick Perry Secretary U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) 1000 Independence Ave, SW Washington, DC 20585 Secretary Perry: We write regarding our concerns with President Trump’s directive on “Fuel-Secure Power Facilities,” the draft “Grid Memo” to the National Security Council, and FirstEnergy Solutions’ bailout request. We ask that you cease the false narrative that bailing out uneconomic energy sources in competitive markets is needed for electrical grid resilience, and to cease attempting to use emergency authorities to intervene in planned power plant retirements. Using emergency authorities for unsubstantiated bailouts would be unprecedented intervention in U.S. energy markets at great taxpayer expense. Last year, under your direction, the Department of Energy tried to use Section 403 authority under the Department of Energy Organization Act to initiate a rulemaking at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). This attempted rulemaking was to create new rules that would provide cost recovery to merchant coal and nuclear plants, asserting that they are essential to resiliency. FERC unanimously voted to terminate that proposal, noting that the evidence did not support the Department’s arguments. FERC wrote, “[T]he Proposed Rule’s on-site 90-day fuel supply requirement would appear to permit only certain resources to be eligible for the rate, thereby excluding other resources that may have resilience attributes.” Since then, FirstEnergy Solutions sent a request asking that the Department invoke Federal Power Act Section 202(c) to find an emergency condition within the grid footprint of PJM Interconnection, LLC, a grid operator, to prevent PJM from retiring plants. FirstEnergy Solutions cited system resiliency as the reason to honor its request. When asked to comment, Assistant Secretary Bruce Walker stated that DOE would never use an emergency order under Section 202(c) Federal Power Act to prop up uneconomic generators. Republican FERC Commissioner Neil Chatterjee also explicitly said that retirements would not impinge on resilience. PJM Interconnection’s own analysis found that reliability could be maintained even in the face of planned coal and nuclear retirements. However, despite the earlier repudiation from FERC of your section 403 request, and despite the rejection -- by both PJM and your own assistant secretary -- of the narrative that these bailouts are needed for grid resilience, you have entertained the idea of FirstEnergy’s request in multiple congressional hearings, indicating a concern about nuclear and coal plant closures and explicitly citing the implications for the resilience and reliability of the grid. You also indicated a willingness to consider authorities other than 202(c), such as the Defense Production Act, to bail out these plants. Continuing this narrative is disingenuous, and while convenient for politically appeasing the current Administration’s preferred energy sources, in real terms it would unnecessarily raise costs to customers and undermine the adoption of renewable energy sources. More recently, President Trump issued a directive asking your Department to intervene in impending “fuel-secure power facilities” retirements. A corresponding DOE draft “Grid Memo” offering a plan to implement the directive was circulated before the National Security Council. It again offers a hypothetical doomsday energy scenario as justification to use emergency authorities to artificially prop up inefficient and uneconomic coal or nuclear power in the interest of national security. The memo failed to offer plausible support that such emergency bailouts are necessary for electrical grid resilience or national security. It also failed to rebut grid experts and grid operators’ assessments, as well as widespread industry views, that such bailouts are not only unnecessary but in fact detrimental to wholesale electricity markets. Nor did it adequately explain how the proposed policy would be a legitimate use of the Defense Production Act and the Federal Power Act. Using emergency authorities to bail out energy resources that are not critical to grid resilience and reliability is irresponsible at best, and sets a dangerous precedent of abusing these emergency authorities to bail out any pet project or pet energy source. Given the lack of any specific evidence suggesting that the affected closing plants are needed, the precedent could later be used to prop up any energy source that is uncompetitive in competitive markets. The President of the Electricity Consumers Resource Counsel, an association of large industrial electricity users, said that the latest DOE proposal would “devastate U.S. manufacturing.” The CEO of Exelon, the largest nuclear generator in the U.S., said the retirement of coal and nuclear plants do not constitute a grid emergency that warrants urgent intervention from the federal government. Low-cost natural gas is squeezing out less cost-efficient energy sources in competitive markets. Traditionally, it has been the role of states to pursue specific energy portfolio policies. Changing that dynamic and federally subsidizing expensive, less cost-efficient energy sources without a well-justified policy rationale has the potential to raise the cost of electricity by staggering sums. The Department's section 403 proposal would have increased costs by $8 billion annually in PJM alone. Grid operators must resort to more expensive and less cost-efficient resources such as coal when electricity demand is high. That does not mean such resources are essential to resilience, rather that they are more expensive and therefore used only when essential. In contrast, winter winds ensure that wind energy is a strong performer during severe winter weather, and wind has contributed more than its expected share to PJM’s grid during the recent cold snaps over the past few winters. Reducing physical and market barriers to wind resources in regions like PJM’s footprint could help to cost-effectively and reliably operate the grid during extreme winter weather, but your department is apparently not looking to eliminate such barriers. Instead, the Department is proposing budget cuts that undermine resiliency tools, such as energy storage. Energy storage helps balance electricity demand with supply -- regardless of the energy source. Your department is also ignoring the true cause of most disruptions to our electricity system: downed power lines. Customers are far more likely to suffer power outages from downed lines on the distribution system, with more than 6 million miles of wires and poles carrying power. According to a January 2017 DOE report, 90 percent of electric power interruptions stem from disruptions on the distribution system. The Department could assist by supporting distributed energy resources sited near customers, such as customer-sited solar, batteries and electric vehicle chargers, to mitigate these distribution failures. We ask you to reject the political narrative and pressure to adopt policies that artificially and unnecessarily prop up uneconomic energy sources, which will raise costs on American taxpayers. We stand ready to work with you to more effectively enable distributed energy sources sited near customers and adequately fund technologies like energy storage that help with resilience. Sincerely,
06.07.2018	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today had an exchange with an Energy Department official which revealed the Trump Administration is flying blind on both the costs of its proposed bailout for US energy companies, and on the effects that the bailout would have on American businesses, including the manufacturing sector. The exchange between Beyer and Bruce Walker, Assistant Secretary in the Office of Electricity and Acting Assistant Secretary for the Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response at the U.S. Department of Energy, occurred Thursday afternoon in a hearing of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology’s Subcommittee on Energy. BEYER: “Assistant Secretary Walker, you previously stated on February 20th of this year and I quote, ‘We would never use a [Section] 202 [authority] to stave off an economic issue. That’s not what it’s for.’ And now FirstEnergy Solutions has asked your Department to use a 202 to stave off an economic issue... does that then imply, or do we understand, that you won’t use a 202 for them?” WALKER: “The 202 application from FirstEnergy is being reviewed by my Department as we speak.” … BEYER: “The draft ‘Grid Memo’ was circulated before the National Security Council last Friday, and it is widely understood that this draft came from the Department, intended to fulfill Trump’s June 1st directive to intervene in planned plant closures. But there’s been an awful lot of pushback from people who are grid operators and grid experts. Specifically, the CEO of Exelon, the largest nuclear generator in the U.S., said the retirement of coal and nuclear plants do not constitute a grid emergency that warrants urgent intervention from the federal government. The President of the Electricity Consumers Resource Counsel, an association of large industrial electricity users, said that the latest DOE proposal would ‘devastate U.S. manufacturing.’ Have you calculated the costs on American businesses, and specifically U.S. manufacturing?” WALKER: I have not. BEYER: “The previous [Section] 403 proposal, which was rejected by FERC because it was unsubstantiated, they said it was going to increase costs by $8 billion annually in PJM alone. Now the new plan nationalizes that 403 proposal, so I would expect that 8 billion dollar figure is going to go up very significantly. Again, in putting together this draft plan, have you estimated what this will cost the US taxpayer?” WALKER: I have not. Video of the exchange is linked here. The exchange came just hours after Beyer led Congressional opposition to the Trump Administration’s grid directive, which would bail out energy firms upon the request of billionaire coal baron donors and citing a nonexistent grid emergency.
06.05.2018	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), and Peter Welch (D-VT) today wrote to White House Chief of Staff John Kelly requesting further details about the decision to grant security clearances to Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump despite lapses in their original Standard Form-86’s (SF-86). The lawmakers requested that an explanation be included in a White House report required by recently passed-legislation. They wrote: “We are deeply concerned by news reports that Senior White House Advisers Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were granted ‘permanent’ top secret security clearances on the same day, May 1, after a lengthy review process. We previously expressed concern to you that omissions from their SF-86 forms and their failure to address questions about foreign contacts appeared to be delinquencies that would trigger the denial of security clearances. We request an explanation of how such delinquencies did not stand in the way of top secret clearances. “Last year we raised concerns to the FBI and the White House about Jared Kushner’s security clearance. We noted that Mr. Kushner ‘failed to disclose key meetings with foreign government officials’ on his original Standard Form-86 (SF-86) when he filed it to obtain a security clearance. … “Ivanka Trump has likewise failed to answer questions about meetings and foreign contacts which we asked in July of last year. Since we first raised concerns about possible discrepancies on her SF-86, news reports emerged that a federal investigation into possible real estate fraud was dropped under questionable circumstances. Additionally, both Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner were both fined by the Office of Government Ethics for failing to file financial disclosures on time, after their initial forms contained large discrepancies about the value of their jointly-held assets. Both also were revealed to have avoided public scrutiny and compliance with recordkeeping laws by conducting official business using a private email server. … “Questions about Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump’s foreign contacts and conflicts of interest remain unanswered. They repeatedly failed to file accurate disclosures of foreign contacts and ethics paperwork. Given this terrible track record, we believe it is strongly in the public interest that the White House fully explain the process which resulted in their being granted ‘permanent’ security clearances. … “We ask that you also answer the above questions and provide as much information as you are safely able to share about the decision to grant security clearances to Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump when the White House submits this report to Congress.” The White House is required to provide a report to Congress explaining the “process for conducting and adjudicating security clearance investigations for personnel of the Executive Office of the President” by Section 4 of the recently-passed Securely Expediting Clearances Through Reporting Transparency (SECRET) Act. Beyer, Nadler, Lieu, Welch, and Raskin were the first Members of Congress to raise issues with Jared Kushner’s security clearance in an April 2017 letter to FBI Director James Comey. They subsequently led a June 2017 Congressional oversight effort calling for the revocation of Kushner’s security clearance, and a July 2017 oversight letter raising questions about possible discrepancies on Ivanka Trump’s security clearance form. Full text of the letter follows, and a copy with signatures may be viewed here. General John F. Kelly White House Chief of Staff The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear General Kelly: We are deeply concerned by news reports that Senior White House Advisers Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were granted “permanent” top secret security clearances on the same day, May 1, after a lengthy review process. We previously expressed concern to you that omissions from their SF-86 forms and their failure to address questions about foreign contacts appeared to be delinquencies that would trigger the denial of security clearances. We request an explanation of how such delinquencies did not stand in the way of top secret clearances. This spring’s passage of the Securely Expediting Clearances Through Reporting Transparency (SECRET) Act requires the submission of a report from the White House to Congress. According to the law, the report must explain “the process for conducting and adjudicating security clearance investigations for personnel of the Executive Office of the President.” We request that, as part of this report, the White House clarify how Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump’s profound lapses did not impede the granting of security clearances. Last year we raised concerns to the FBI and the White House about Jared Kushner’s security clearance. We noted that Mr. Kushner “failed to disclose key meetings with foreign government officials” on his original Standard Form-86 (SF-86) when he filed it to obtain a security clearance. Omitted meetings included an in-person discussion with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and President Trump’s National Security Adviser Michael Flynn about a secret backchannel communication with the Kremlin. Gen. Flynn later pled guilty to lying to the FBI, while Kushner updated his SF-86 repeatedly without answering our questions about his foreign contacts. Nevertheless, he was apparently granted renewed access to top secret US intelligence. Ivanka Trump has likewise failed to answer questions about meetings and foreign contacts which we asked in July of last year. Since we first raised concerns about possible discrepancies on her SF-86, news reports emerged that a federal investigation into possible real estate fraud was dropped under questionable circumstances. Additionally, both Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner were both fined by the Office of Government Ethics for failing to file financial disclosures on time, after their initial forms contained large discrepancies about the value of their jointly-held assets. Both also were revealed to have avoided public scrutiny and compliance with recordkeeping laws by conducting official business using a private email server. Questions about Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump’s foreign contacts and conflicts of interest remain unanswered. They repeatedly failed to file accurate disclosures of foreign contacts and ethics paperwork. Given this terrible track record, we believe it is strongly in the public interest that the White House fully explain the process which resulted in their being granted “permanent” security clearances. We have previously been informed by the FBI that such decisions are made by the White House. The process remains extremely unclear. Were final adjudications made entirely by career employees, without influence, coercion, or direction from political staff? Did President Trump intervene to get his daughter and son-in-law access to top secret information? Earlier this month Congress unanimously passed, and President Trump signed, the SECRET Act (Public Law 115-173). Section 4 of that Act states that: “Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Administration of the Executive Office of the President, in coordination with the Director [of National Intelligence] and the Director of the Office [of Personnel Management], shall submit to Congress a report that explains the process for conducting and adjudicating security clearance investigations for personnel of the Executive Office of the President, including personnel of the White House Office.” We ask that you also answer the above questions and provide as much information as you are safely able to share about the decision to grant security clearances to Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump when the White House submits this report to Congress. We thank you for your attention in this matter.
06.01.2018	Congressional Safe Climate Caucus Co-Chairs Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) and Don Beyer (VA-08) released the following statement on the one-year anniversary of President Donald Trump’s decision to initiate U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement: “It has been one year since Donald Trump announced that he would withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement, and he continues to display total apathy toward climate change and the threat it poses to public health, the economy and national security. From his first day in office, Trump has been on a mission to undo every inch of progress we have made on climate and the environment. His administration scrubbed mentions of climate change from government websites, undermined scientists and public servants who worked to fight climate change, proposed massive cuts to government programs to curb emissions and tied the hands of the enforcement division at the Environmental Protection Agency. In every sense of the word, the Trump Administration has been disastrous when it comes to addressing the climate crisis and protecting the planet. “The Paris Agreement represented the best opportunity for the global community to address climate change and prevent its devastating impacts. Despite the president, governors, mayors and community leaders are still honoring the spirit of the Paris Agreement to enhance climate resiliency. Today we stand with them, and all those who are fighting to show the rest of the world that the United States is still capable of being a leader on climate.”
06.01.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s directive to the Department of Energy to order grid operators to purchase power from coal and nuclear power plants, without credible justification for such an act: “Today Donald Trump is ginning up a fake grid emergency to bail out donors in the coal industry, while ignoring a real grid emergency that has killed thousands of Americans in Puerto Rico. Trump’s directive is blatantly corrupt. Coal industry executives like Robert Murray were a major source of donations to the Trump Campaign. Murray was also a leader of the effort to get a federal bailout for his failing industry, and was rewarded today for his investment in Trump. To justify this move, the White House is citing authority under the Federal Power Act and the Defense Production Act which require regulations of this kind to be justified by a national security emergency. Grid operators and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission officials have indicated that no such emergency exists. Meanwhile there is a genuine grid emergency in the United States which resulted in thousands of American lives lost in Puerto Rico. Trump has yet to say one word about the death toll in Puerto Rico since it was revealed that as many as 4,600 may have been killed there in the wake of Hurricane Maria’s devastation, a significantly higher death toll than Hurricane Katrina. Many who died there suffered from lack of medical care because of ongoing power outages. Trump’s announcement today says very clearly that he cares more about helping wealthy donors and coal executives than he does the suffering people of Puerto Rico, thousands of whom still lack power eight months after Hurricane Maria.” Rep. Beyer is the Vice-Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, which recently held an oversight hearing with Secretary of Energy Rick Perry, during which Perry and other Energy Department officials faced questioning about the possibility of an order from the White House to prop up the coal industry. Beyer is also a Member of the Natural Resources Committee, which holds jurisdiction over matters related to Puerto Rico.
05.31.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today led 64 House Democrats to highlight how non-partisan experts and insurers blame President Donald Trump’s actions for the costly spike in health insurance premiums for Americans next year, and urged him to end his campaign of intentional sabotage of the Affordable Care Act. The Representatives wrote: “We are deeply concerned by your Administration’s actions, which both trigger higher health insurance premiums as well as undermine access to high-quality, affordable health care for millions of hard-working Americans. The reporting of early filings by health insurers shows that healthcare premiums will rise sharply next year. Their justifications reveal that your Administration’s actions are to blame. … Your Administration ended cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments, which help reduce out-of-pocket costs like co-pays and deductibles for low-income exchange enrollees… Insurers are increasing costs to cover the added risk. … You signed H.R. 1, a tax bill that functionally eliminated a provision in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) which required Americans to purchase health insurance. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, that is the primary cause of a projected 15 percent increase in premiums in 2019 and will lead to 5 million more uninsured Americans. … Your Administration proposed rules to modify the requirements for the sale of short-term and association health plans, which would allow insurers to sell products that do not constitute true “insurance.” … These efforts are sabotaging our healthcare system. As predicted, early state filings from Virginia and Maryland demonstrate significant premium hikes. In Virginia, for example, one plan option will rise by 64 percent.” The Representatives sent their letter as a growing number of states, including Virginia, face premium spikes directly attributed by insurers to Trump Administration sabotage. Former Trump Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price previously predicted that Republican actions would drive up Americans’ healthcare costs. The Trump Administration’s top two health officials, Alex Azar and Seema Verma, deny that GOP sabotage will result in rising premiums, but their claims have been disputed by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office and actual requests for large rate increases by insurers. Text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. Rep. Beyer has been an outspoken critic of Trump Administration healthcare sabotage, and previously led House Democrats in warning Speaker Paul Ryan that GOP inaction on healthcare would lead to rising premiums for America’s middle class. He has voted against every attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and is the founder of the bipartisan House Suicide Prevention Task Force. *** President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20006 Dear Mr. President: We are deeply concerned by your Administration’s actions, which both trigger higher health insurance premiums as well as undermine access to high-quality, affordable health care for millions of hard-working Americans. The reporting of early filings by health insurers shows that healthcare premiums will rise sharply next year. Their justifications reveal that your Administration’s actions are to blame. This was foreseeable. Your administration ended cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments, which help reduce out-of-pocket costs like co-pays and deductibles for low-income exchange enrollees. When it was announced, The New York Times reported that it could send “insurance premiums soaring” and The Wall Street Journal reported that “[s]ome consumers who get health insurance through the Affordable Care Act exchanges next year will face sharp premium increases and have fewer insurer options.” There was concern that eliminating CSR payments would expose the government to lawsuits from insurers looking to recoup their lost costs. There was also concern that insurers would cost-shift lost revenue to non-CSR eligible individuals in the near term, hurting the self-employed, and those in the innovator and gig economies. While some states have found viable work-arounds to help keep coverage more affordable, your reckless actions have created additional uncertainty in the marketplaces. Insurers are increasing costs to cover the added risk. You signed H.R. 1, a tax bill that functionally eliminated a provision in the Affordable Care Act (ACA) which required Americans to purchase health insurance. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, that is the primary cause of a projected 15 percent increase in premiums in 2019 and will lead to 5 million more uninsured Americans. The wellbeing of the health insurance market depends upon the pool of participants. This move deliberately disincentivizes healthy individuals from participating, thereby leaving pools with a more concentrated mix of sicker and more expensive participants. Your Administration proposed rules to modify the requirements for the sale of short-term and association health plans, which would allow insurers to sell products that do not constitute true “insurance.” While these products would appear cheaper to consumers, they would do so at a significant cost, by covering fewer benefits and ensuring fewer patient protections, such as coverage of pre-existing medical conditions. This is a backdoor to undermining the health of the pools in the high-quality ACA insurance exchanges. Insurers might decide to leave these markets altogether if the customers become too unhealthy and therefore too expensive. These efforts are sabotaging our healthcare system. As predicted, early state filings from Virginia and Maryland demonstrate significant premium hikes. In Virginia, for example, one plan option will rise by 64 percent. As justification for these significant hikes, insurers have expressly indicated that the cause lies primarily with the Trump administration, citing “elimination of the Individual Mandate penalties,” “discontinuance of funding for Cost-Sharing Reduction (CSR) payments by the federal government,” and “anticipated changes to regulations regarding Short Term Medical and Association Health Plans that will impact the Affordable Care Act risk pool.” Sabotaging the ACA is bad for middle class families and individuals living with pre-existing conditions. They bear the brunt of annual premium increases and will be shut out of the secondary markets as their vital protections are rolled back. We ask that you stop your destructive campaign to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. Americans want access to high-quality, affordable health insurance. Please take efforts to undo this sabotage, and work with Congress to increase access and affordability for quality health insurance.
05.30.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the Virginia Senate’s passage of budget measures which would expand Medicaid in the Commonwealth of Virginia: “Today the Virginia Senate took a historic and long-overdue step towards giving hundreds of thousands of Virginians access to affordable health care. While I strongly oppose the work requirement portions of this legislation, which will prevent Virginians from getting coverage, the full effect of these bills will bring health insurance and financial security to so many Virginia families who lack them. I applaud this bipartisan move forward, which was delayed for far too long, and hope that the House will pass Medicaid expansion with all possible haste. Virginia stands today as a contrast to Republican leaders in Washington who have spent over a year driving up healthcare costs and trying to deprive millions of Americans of their coverage. President Trump and his allies in Congress should abandon their sabotage, follow Virginia’s lead, and prioritize giving people access to affordable health care.” The measures to expand Medicaid in Virginia passed narrowly in the Senate, with several Republicans and all Democrats voting in favor. The legislation will return to the House for final passage, following which it will go to Governor Ralph Northam for signature. Medicaid expansion will expand health coverage under the Affordable Care Act to include an estimated 400,000 low income Virginians who currently lack health insurance, thousands of whom live in Northern Virginia. A measure to expand Medicaid was proposed by Governor Terry McAuliffe in 2014 and repeatedly thereafter, but was never adopted by the General Assembly.
05.25.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the news that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s spending on personal security and travel during his first year in office was $3.5 million, a number significantly higher than previously disclosed: “Everything Scott Pruitt said about his wasteful spending turned out to be false,” said Rep. Beyer. “Internal EPA documents show that he requested unprecedented security before taking office, then exaggerated threats against him to justify the expense afterwards. Pruitt tried to downplay his travel costs, justified them through false comparisons to his predecessors, and hid the extent to which these trips were orchestrated by lobbyists and industry. When aides objected or came forward, he had them sidelined or punished. Pruitt seems pathologically incapable of honesty or ethical behavior, and there is no reason for President Trump to delay firing him.” Scott Pruitt has previously attempted to justify excessive spending on luxurious travel and personal security through comparisons to his predecessors, and by citing “unprecedented” threats against his life. Both of these claims have been repeatedly debunked. Pruitt’s wasteful spending is the subject of several of the many federal investigations into his misconduct.
05.24.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today led a group of five House Democratic leaders requesting information from EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and the EPA’s Office of the Inspector General (OIG) about Pruitt’s legal defense fund. Pruitt confirmed the existence of the fund to Senators in a hearing last week, but key details have not yet been made public or provided to Congress, which potentially raises a series of ethics concerns. Pruitt’s fund is intended to help cover legal costs related to the many federal investigations into his misconduct. The Representatives wrote: “We understand your purpose in creating such a fund, given the investigations into your misconduct by the House of Representatives, Senate, White House, Office of Management and Budget, and the Government Accountability Office, and the many reviews being conducted by the EPA Office of the Inspector General (OIG). We have serious misgivings, however, about the potential ethical problems raised by such a fund, given your abysmal track record in such matters. We urge you to take all possible steps to mitigate any potential for conflicts of interest. … “We are also concerned about the possibility of anonymous donations to your legal defense fund, as such donations could easily bypass prohibitions on donations from lobbyists and special interests with business before the EPA. We note that, while federal regulations merely require the disclosure of donations above $390, recent guidance from the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) advises “that the instruments establishing legal defense funds include a clause stating that ‘contributions shall not be accepted from anonymous sources.’” … “We are aware that you may be permitted, under OGE guidance, to avoid making public disclosures of donations to his legal defense fund until May of 2019. We strongly urge against any such delay in transparency, as lax disclosure would worsen already-severe mistrust of your leadership by Congress and the public.” The letter was signed by Beyer and Reps. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), and Ted Lieu (D-CA), a group which includes the Ranking and Vice-Ranking Members of the House Judiciary Committee and the Vice-Ranking Members of the House Science Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Signed copies are available of the letters to EPA IG Arthur Elkins and to Administrator Scott Pruitt.
05.23.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on reports that Jared Kushner had been granted a permanent security clearance: “Today the White House and Jared Kushner’s representatives are saying that the decision to grant Mr. Kushner’s clearance was made by career personnel, and that this decision was the deserved outcome of an above-board process. Both claims are false or misleading. The suggestion that Kushner was granted a clearance by ‘career’ personnel and not at the discretion of the White House directly contradicts the FBI’s explanation to me about the process for adjudication of security clearances. The FBI wrote to me last year after I asked questions about Kushner’s security clearance, and said that ‘the granting or suspension of Mr. Kushner’s clearance would be the responsibility of the client adjudication entity, in this case, the White House.’ The suggestion that Mr. Kushner has been adequately forthcoming during this process, or that he deserves a security clearance, is belied by his constant failure to honestly disclose his foreign contacts and business conflicts, and to properly complete his ethics filings. Kushner had to update his SF-86 multiple times after failing to disclose connections with foreign officials and entities, including an attempt to set up a back-channel communication with the Kremlin. He has also been fined for repeated failure to file ethics disclosures. Jared Kushner does not deserve a permanent security clearance. Kushner has been deceptive and dishonest, and there are many reasonable questions about whose interests he is serving in his efforts to influence US foreign policy. The fact that the White House retained him in his position and granted him this security clearance is the clearest evidence yet that Congress needs to step in and create new safeguards for this process, which it should do by passing legislation I put forward: the Security Clearance Review Act.” A copy of the FBI letter explaining the process by which permanent security clearances are granted to personnel employed by the Executive Office of the President is available here. Rep. Beyer was the first Member of Congress to call for the suspension of Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner’s security clearance, following the revelation of myriad omissions on Kushner’s SF-86. Beyer later led 50+ Democrats seeking revocation of Kushner’s clearance, and has led Congressional oversight efforts related to clearance issues with Ivanka Trump and Stephen Miller.
05.23.2018	Today is the fourth anniversary of the mass shooting in Isla Vista, California, which left six people dead and fourteen injured. That incident inspired legislation to enable families and law enforcement to act on warning signs before mass shootings, now called the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act, which received new attention and significant bipartisan support after the Parkland shooting. Yet three months after Parkland, and in the face of another mass shooting at a school in Santa Fe, Texas, Congress still has not taken up this or any major legislation to address gun violence. Florida, Maryland, Vermont and Delaware have enacted gun violence restraining order laws (three of which were signed by Republican Governors). Similar bills are nearing passage in New York and Massachusetts. Yet there has been no action at the federal level. Representative Beyer today sent a letter to House leaders calling for action on bipartisan gun legislation, along with Representatives Salud Carbajal, Mike Thompson, and Debbie Dingell. The Members wrote: “Today, we write to urge that Congress take sensible action and enact bipartisan gun safety measures that have the potential to save lives and prevent guns from falling into the wrong hands.” The Members went on to ask Speaker Ryan to allow votes on four different bills, including the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act, which have bipartisan support in Congress. Rep. Beyer also took part in the gun violence hearing in the Capitol this afternoon with high school students, some of whom were themselves survivors of mass shootings. It was a glimpse of the kind of conversation to inform legislative action that might result from the establishment of a House Committee on Gun Violence, the creation of which Rep. Beyer supports. Rep. Beyer has been a vocal advocate for legislation to prevent gun violence since taking office in 2015. He is a lead on the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act, which would help states set up gun violence restraining order laws. Beyer is an original cosponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban, and cosponsors of bills to expand background checks on firearm purchases and restore CDC funding into research on gun violence. He was also a leading critic of legislation to deregulate silencers and override state concealed carry laws following the Congressional Baseball Practice shooting in Alexandria, VA, which he presents.
05.21.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today received confirmation that the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) for the Social Security Administration (SSA) had agreed to his request for a review of the decision to close its Arlington field office. The review will “identify and evaluate SSA’s reasons for the field office closure … ascertain SSA’s plans to mitigate any effects on individuals currently served by the field office … (and) determine whether SSA followed its internal policies related to notifying your office and the public of the office closure.” “The Social Security Administration should postpone the closure of its Arlington office while this review goes forward,” said Rep. Beyer. “It would be inappropriate for the office to be closed before the effects on the community are assessed. I thank the Acting Inspector General for undertaking this review, and look forward to its conclusions.” Rep. Beyer noted in his May 1 letter to the OIG that, “closure of the field office will force my constituents to suffer from the lack of in-person services, especially to a metro accessible office. That is no small matter when many elderly and disabled Arlingtonians who may lack access to a car or internet access depend upon this field office.” The letter from SSA Acting Inspector General Gale Stallworth Stone is available here.
05.21.2018	Remarks as prepared: Justice delayed is justice denied. It has been six months since an unarmed Bijan Ghaisar was shot to death by Park Policemen. It has been nearly six months since the FBI initiated its investigation into an incident that happened over the course of a few minutes. Yet we stand here today, knowing no more about that investigation. We don’t know all that happened. We do not know what the Uber driver said when he called 911 – because the FBI has told Arlington not to release the tape. We don’t know what the Park Police were thinking when they chased Mr. Ghaisar at normal speeds down the Parkway. What did they think they were up against? We only have some idea about Bijan’s death because the Fairfax County police bravely, and appropriately, released the dash top camera video of the stops and the shots fired. I have had a number of conversations with the FBI investigator in charge, and he has only promised that the investigation is almost complete. But it was almost complete in December, and in January – and now it is May. All my life I have had enormous respect for the FBI, and trust in the FBI. It is beyond my understanding why this particular investigation has taken so long, especially in an environment when virtually every citizen who has been paying attention wants answers to these vital questions. I have asked for a meeting with FBI Director Christopher Wray to discuss the investigation timeline – but the meeting was refused. Justice, simple fairness, the rule of law in a democracy, all demand transparency in this tragic case – transparency that has been sadly and wrongly denied so far. I have one request: please, Director Wray, finish the investigation and release the report. Let the facts be what the facts are. Nothing will bring back Bijan Ghaisar, but just perhaps we will learn why his family and the world lost this brilliant, charming, irrepressible young man. It is my understanding, by the way, that the FBI’s investigation is limited to whether Bijan’s civil rights were violated. The review of the actions of the Park Police officers has perhaps not even begun. We seem a long way from a just resolution. I recently met with the Department of Interior to ask how they were responding in the aftermath of Bijan’s death. With pressure from my office, late last year the National Park Service began developing a body-worn camera pilot program. I have since learned that that is being spread among all law enforcement departments in Interior. This is good news, and means that Interior’s 3,500 law enforcement could soon adopt body-worn cameras. But I am concerned that Interior has no timeline for this pilot and that it has no long-term financial plan to support body camera adoption. At least the Department is genuinely engaging on moving into the 21st century in policing. Unlike Interior, the FBI and the Department of Justice have not budged. Enough is enough. I ask the FBI: do your job and finish your work on the Ghaisar case.
05.16.2018	Scott Pruitt today admitted in a Senate Appropriations Subcommittee hearing to violating federal regulations when he accepted the services of his direct subordinate, Millan Hupp, without paying her [exchange here]. Hupp assisted Pruitt in his housing search last year, Pruitt confirmed, without pay, a violation of the Code of Federal Regulations (administrative law governing federal employees, laid out by the Office of Government Ethics). The EPA Inspector General confirmed to Congressman Beyer last month that this matter is the subject of one of its investigations into Pruitt’s many scandals. Other notable exchanges from the hearing of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies: Pruitt was again unable to say whether one of his senior-most aides, Samantha Dravis, had shown up for work over a period of three months. He confirmed that Dravis “was the head of policy at the EPA,” that he had "interacted with her multiple times" during the period of November 2017 to January 2018, that the "schedule shows she was attending meetings," and that she "was employed at the agency." He refused to definitively state that she had actually gone to work [exchange]. Pruitt told Senator Tom Udall (D-NM) he did not “recall” ordering his security detail to put on lights and sirens to get through traffic on his way to fancy restaurants. Senator Tom Udall promptly produced an internal email from the head of Pruitt’s security detail saying that Pruitt “encourages the use” of “lights and sirens.” [exchange] Pruitt said he had “limited interaction” with his former Deputy Chief of Staff Kevin Chmielewski, and that he was “not aware of any personnel decision” regarding Mr. Chmielewski, who told Members of Congress that Pruitt retaliated against him for whistleblowing [exchange]. Pruitt told Senator Shelley Moore-Capito (R-WV) he was “not aware that there had been some holding back” of a report on potentially deadly levels of water contamination because of “public relations” concerns, as reported by Politico yesterday [exchange]. Pruitt confirmed that he had set up a legal defense fund in anticipation of legal issues arising from the many investigations into his unethical activities. He was readily able to answer that he would not accept contributions to that fund from lobbyists or corporations with business before the EPA, but was unable to flatly tell Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) that he would refuse to accept anonymous donations, despite the extremely thorny ethical issues such donations would represent. [exchange] After the Office of the Inspector General publicly contradicted Pruitt’s previous testimony to Congress that his unprecedented, 24/7 security detail was justified by threats to his personal security, Pruitt attempted to shift his narrative through frequent use of the passive voice (“the decision was made”) and misdirection about timing. He did not, however, directly refute the suggestion that he had personally requested this unprecedented and expensive personal security detail when he took office. [notable exchange here] Representative Beyer was the first Member of Congress to issue a formal statement calling for Scott Pruitt’s resignation. He led 64 House Democrats urging the President to dismiss Pruitt, and has led numerous oversight initiatives focused on Pruitt’s tenure at the EPA. He serves as the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight, and as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus.
05.11.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) Alex Azar’s testimony that he does not “see the premium effect” of the Trump Administration’s efforts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act: “This comment by Secretary Azar represents the abysmal apathy the Trump Administration shows when it comes to Americans’ healthcare costs,” said Rep. Beyer. “Virginia and our neighbor Maryland are already seeing requests by insurers for massive premium increases which they attribute directly to President Trump’s steps to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. The message here is clear: the Trump Administration is raising Americans’ premiums, and they just don’t care.” During a Senate Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on the HHS budget yesterday, Azar was asked by Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI) about efforts by the Trump Administration to undermine the healthcare system by removing the individual mandate and allowing states to offer junk healthcare plans. Schatz asked whether Azar agreed with his predecessor, Tom Price, who said last week that these measures would drive up costs for Americans in the individual market. Azar said that he saw no such “premium effect,” despite the fact that insurers in Virginia pointed to these specific actions as causes of weakening insurance pools as they sought rate hikes of up to 64 percent in the state of Virginia. Maryland officials made similar comments as that state’s insurers also requested major health care premium increases. See video of the exchange with Secretary Azar here.
05.10.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s “Back to Basics” memo instructing the EPA to begin factoring “economic effects” into its decisions on setting clean air standards: “Scott Pruitt’s latest attempt to undermine air pollution standards set by the Clean Air Act is illegal and immoral. The only ‘basics’ that his actions would take us ‘back to’ are the era when cities were shrouded in lethal air pollution and American rivers burned. Weakening clean air standards to help polluters will not eliminate costs, it will shift them to people’s medical bills. The Clean Air Act directs Pruitt to ‘promote the public health,’ not to help the bottom lines of the lobbyists, special interest donors, and polluters who have given him his marching orders since he came to the EPA.” Scott Pruitt’s memo directed the EPA to set National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) as required by Clean Air Act, Section 109, with consideration for the “impacts of a NAAQS revision on economic activity.” The United States Supreme Court unanimously ruled in 2001 that “Section 109(b) does not permit the Administrator to consider implementation costs in setting NAAQS.” That decision, in Whitman v. American Trucking Ass'ns, Inc., was written by the late conservative Justice Antonin Scalia. Representative Beyer was the first Member of Congress to issue a formal statement calling for Scott Pruitt’s resignation. He led 64 House Democrats urging the President to dismiss Pruitt, and has led numerous oversight initiatives focused on Pruitt’s tenure at the EPA. He serves as the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight, and as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus.
05.08.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement forcefully condemning President Trump’s decision to exit the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), also known as the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “President Trump’s extremely shortsighted decision to exit the JCPOA is another major step backward for our national security. Simply put, the President’s actions have made a nuclear-armed Iran more likely, and therefore made the world a more dangerous place. It will have serious negative consequences for the stability of the region, for our relationships with our allies, and will further embolden hardliners in Iran who want to develop nuclear weapons. “Now it is left to our European allies to attempt to pick up the pieces of the agreement and hold Iran to its commitments, even though we have not honored ours. Functionally, they are being held responsible for this administration’s irresponsibility. “At a time when we are trying denuclearize the Korean Peninsula, ideally with a similarly robust monitoring and verification scheme, this decision severely damages the United States’ credibility as a diplomatic and negotiating partner. “Both the US defense and intelligence communities, including Secretary Mattis, General Dunford, and the IAEA, have consistently certified Iranian compliance with the agreement and the robust nature of the verification regime. The President has embarked upon a path where the risks of both Iranian nuclearization and war with Iran are significantly increased. Unfortunately, it is hard to believe that President Trump has taken this path with a thoughtful plan in mind to address both the significant ongoing issues posed by the Iran as well as the renewed threat of nuclearization. “Once again and to our detriment, the President has shown that he will place domestic political considerations and his disdain for his predecessor above our national interest and global reputation.” Beyer served from 2009-2013 as US Ambassador to Switzerland, which is the “protecting power” for diplomatic discussions between Iran and the United States, which have not had formalized diplomatic relations since 1980. He was a vocal supporter of the JCPOA during his first term in the House, where he worked with the Obama Administration to build Congressional support for the agreement.
05.08.2018	Today, Senators Richard Durbin (D-IL), the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Immigration, Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Judiciary, and Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA) sent a letter requesting that the Department of Justice Inspector General investigate whistleblower allegations of politicized hiring practices for immigration judges and Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) positions. “Based on these whistleblower accounts, the Department may be improperly withholding or rescinding offers for these positions based on the perception that candidates hold political or ideological views that do not align with those of the Trump Administration,” the lawmakers wrote. “In multiple cases, the Department appears to have withdrawn offers of employment with explanations that suggest a pretext for improper political motives.” On April 17, 2018, Reps. Cummings, Doggett, Castro, and Beyer sent a letter to Attorney General Sessions revealing information their offices received alleging that the Department of Justice targeted candidates for immigration judges and BIA positions based on their perceived political or ideological views. The Department has not provided a substantive response to date. “Over the past several weeks, more whistleblowers have come forward with information that corroborates the allegations detailed in that letter,” the Members wrote. “Several of our offices have received information about additional cases in which the Department has delayed or withdrawn offers for immigration judges and Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) positions.” Last month, Senator Durbin asked James McHenry, the Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), about these allegations during a hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee. In his testimony, Director McHenry denied ever discussing the political or ideological affiliation of a candidate for an immigration judge or BIA position with any other Administration official or being aware of any such discussions involving other Department officials. However, Director McHenry failed to deny or even address allegations that the Department engaged in discrimination based on the perceived political or ideological affiliation of job applicants, given inferences drawn from an applicant’s resume or other application materials. In 2008, an investigation conducted by the Department of Justice Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility found that aides to then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales “considered political or ideological affiliations” when evaluating immigration judge candidates and candidates for the BIA. The report warned that “both Department policy and federal law prohibit discrimination in hiring for career positions on the basis of political affiliations.” “We request that you conduct an independent investigation into these allegations of illegal hiring practices even as we continue to press for answers from the Department on this matter,” the Members wrote. “Given your office’s important investigation a decade ago into politicized hiring at the Department and the seriousness of these strikingly similar allegations, we request that you give this matter immediate attention.” Click here to read today’s letter.
05.08.2018	Today is the 40th day since news emerged on March 29th that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt rented a condo from the wife of an energy lobbyist. Over those 40 days, hundreds of news reports have exposed so many different facets of Pruitt’s unethical behavior, wasteful spending, and corruption that he has become the subject of 11 federal investigations. Here is a selection of 40 stories about Scott Pruitt from the past 40 days: March 29: ABC News – More Cabinet trouble for Trump? EPA chief lived in condo tied to lobbyist 'power couple' March 29: Bloomberg – EPA Chief’s $50-a-Night Rental Raises White House Angst March 30: The Hill – Dem calls on Pruitt to resign over rental deal with lobbyist March 31: ABC News – EPA chief Pruitt joined by family in condo tied to lobbyist 'power couple' March 31: ABC News – Pruitt's EPA paid for lobbyist's condo door after security busted it April 2: New York Times – Pruitt Had a $50-a-Day Condo Linked to Lobbyists. Their Client’s Project Got Approved. April 2: Wall Street Journal – White House Probes EPA Chief Pruitt Over His Links to Lobbyist April 3: The Atlantic – Scott Pruitt Bypassed the White House to Give Big Raises to Favorite Aides April 4: Vox – This Fox News interview was surprisingly tough on Scott Pruitt April 5: Daily Beast – Scott Pruitt Says His Lobbyist Landlord’s Clients Didn’t Have Business Before the EPA. They Did. April 5: CBS News – Scott Pruitt asked to use sirens in D.C. traffic and was told no for non-emergency April 5: New York Times – E.P.A. Officials Sidelined After Questioning Scott Pruitt April 5: New York Times – In Letter to E.P.A., Top Ethics Officer Questions Pruitt’s Actions April 6: Reuters – 64 Democratic lawmakers urge Trump to dismiss EPA chief Pruitt April 7: Associated Press – EPA chief spent millions on security and travel April 10: Politico – EPA removes staffer who OK’d report on Pruitt’s security April 11: New York Times – Scott Pruitt’s Idea to Update an E.P.A. Keepsake: Less E.P.A., More Pruitt April 12: Buzzfeed – A New Bombshell Letter Alleges “Unethical And Potentially Illegal” Acts By EPA Head Scott Pruitt April 14: Mother Jones – House Republicans Just Ramped Up Their Investigation of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt April 16: USA Today – Watchdog finds EPA broke law by spending $43K on Scott Pruitt's soundproof booth and not telling Congress April 17: Politico – Homebuilders paid for Pruitt's Colorado hotel stay April 18: Associated Press – EPA chief sat in coach when not flying on taxpayer’s dime April 18: The Hill – 170 lawmakers sign resolution calling for Pruitt's resignation April 20: New York Times – G.O.P. Support Shows Cracks as Scott Pruitt’s Ethics Inquiries Widen April 20: Politico – Lobbyist whose wife rented to Pruitt lobbied EPA despite denials April 21: Washington Post – ‘A factory of bad ideas’: How Scott Pruitt undermined his mission at EPA April 21: New York Times – Scott Pruitt Before the E.P.A.: Fancy Homes, a Shell Company and Friends With Money April 26: HuffPost – Scott Pruitt Admits He Knew About Controversial EPA Staff Raises April 27: CNBC – EPA watchdog opens probe of Administrator Scott Pruitt's controversial DC apartment rental April 30: ABC News – EPA whistleblower says Pruitt 'lied' to Congress May 1: The Intercept – EPA Adviser Albert Kelly Resigned Amid Ethics Inquiries. Is Scott Pruitt Next? May 1: Washington Post – Lobbyist helped arrange Scott Pruitt’s $100,000 trip to Morocco May 2: ThinkProgress – Scott Pruitt’s attempt to defend himself against his scandals could turn into a new scandal May 2: New York Times – Ex-Lobbyist for Foreign Governments Helped Plan Pruitt Trip to Australia May 3: The Atlantic – A Pruitt Aide's Attack on Zinke Angers the White House May 4: CNN – Dems say Pruitt aide asked EPA to consider opening office in Pruitt's hometown May 4: Bloomberg – Fourth Pruitt Aide Leaving EPA May 4: CNN – Pruitt reimbursed himself $65,000 from Oklahoma attorney general campaign May 6: Axios – Inside Scott Pruitt's "miserable" bunker May 7: Daily Beast – Scott Pruitt’s Rome Trip: More Time on Tourism Than Official Business BONUS Story: The Onion – Scott Pruitt Defends Use Of 1st Armored Division For Trip To Dry-Cleaner
05.07.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today again condemned efforts by Donald Trump and congressional Republicans to sabotage the US health care system after they were cited by Virginia’s health insurers as the cause of proposed double-digit rate increases for health insurance premiums: “Donald Trump and his Republican allies in Congress are inflicting huge pain on Virginia families,” said Rep. Beyer. “I was one of many legislators who warned that the outcome of their sabotage campaign would be cost increases for the middle class, and those warnings were echoed by health care experts, economists, and the Congressional Budget Office. Republicans must allow bipartisan action to repair the damage that they have done, which working Americans can ill afford.” Health insurers repeatedly pointed to Republican attempts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, and in particular the repeal of the individual mandate and proposed rules to allow for short-term health plans and association health plans, in requesting rate increases which include: CareFirst: 26.6 percent (approximately 8,400 members) Health Keepers (Anthem): 5.6 percent (63,868 members) Group Hospitalization and Medical Services: 64.3 percent (approximately 4,500 members Cigna: 15 percent (103,264 members) Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Mid-Atlantic: 32.1 percent (53,210 members as of 2017) Piedmont Community Healthcare (and Piedmont HMO): 46.5 percent (21,000 members) [Member numbers source: Healthcare.Org] Former Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price was quoted last week admitting that these cost increases for working Americans were expected by those who attacked the Affordable Care Act: “There are many, and I’m one of them, who believes that that actually will harm the pool in the exchange market, because you’ll likely have individuals who are younger and healthier not participating in that market, and consequently that drives up the cost for other folks within that market.” [Washington Post, May 1]. The Congressional Budget Office previously estimated that Americans in ACA marketplaces without subsidies would face a 10 percent average premium hike due to the repeal of the individual mandate. The same estimate forecast that 13 million more Americans would become uninsured following repeal of the individual mandate, which Republicans removed as part of their tax bill last year.
05.04.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the reported resignation of John Konkus, the EPA’s Deputy Associate Administrator for Public Affairs: “Scott Pruitt’s toxicity has infected the upper echelons of EPA leadership, and the process of cleaning this mess must begin with Pruitt’s dismissal,” said Rep. Beyer. “Mr. Konkus’ tenure at EPA was emblematic of the way that special interests have been empowered to subvert the EPA’s core mission under Pruitt. In the wake of Konkus’ resignation, the EPA should act immediately to restore a grant process based on sound science rather than politics and the influence of industry.” Konkus was the fourth senior official to depart the EPA this week, amid deepening scandals around Administrator Scott Pruitt. Konkus had overseen an unprecedented and highly-politicized process for the approval of scientific and environmental protection grants put in place by Pruitt. Over the course of several months, Konkus’ actions included a failed attempt to strip funding for the Chesapeake Bay Journal, implementing orders by Pruitt to censor climate science on EPA webpages, and blocking EPA scientists from speaking about climate change at a scientific conference. Konkus was also granted an unusual ethics waiver by EPA officials to earn income from outside the agency by acting as a political consultant. It later emerged that his consulting clients were Republican political interests. Representative Beyer is the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight. He has led numerous oversight initiatives focused on Pruitt’s tenure at the EPA, was the first Member of Congress to issue a formal statement calling for Scott Pruitt’s resignation, and led 64 House Democrats urging the President to dismiss Pruitt. He serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus.
05.04.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the announcement by the Trump Administration that it would eliminate protections for thousands of Hondurans living in the United States: “Casting out Hondurans from our communities will inflict needless suffering on thousands of TPS-holders and their families without helping anyone,” said Rep. Beyer. “These are our friends, neighbors, and coworkers, and this decision will hurt Northern Virginia. Donald Trump’s sustained attacks on immigrants and refugees will not create jobs or help the economy, they will do the opposite, and more importantly they are deeply wrong.” Northern Virginia and the National Capital Region are home to a large community of Hondurans, many of whom have held Temporary Protected Status through Republican and Democratic Administrations.
05.02.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today sent a letter to House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT) requesting a hearing on the status of Puerto Rico’s recovery from Hurricanes Maria and Irma. Beyer wrote: “Dear Chairman Bishop: I write to request that you hold a hearing regarding the status of Puerto Rico’s recovery. It is our responsibility as the primary committee of jurisdiction for Puerto Rico to provide the oversight the American people on the island badly need. Since Hurricanes Maria and Irma, the federal government has presided over one of the slowest and least effective post-hurricane recoveries in recent memory. The issues worth examining, including the recent island-wide black out, lack of access to housing, school closures, the unsupported privatization of PREPA, the upcoming hurricane and mosquito season, the exodus from the island, and efforts by bondholders to siphon off recovery funding, are abundant. Our committee has been silent. My staff and I are ready to help you assemble a hearing or series of hearings on the topic. I look forward to working with you.” A signed copy of the letter is available here.
05.01.2018	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today after the resignations of EPA Senior Adviser Albert Kelly, who oversaw the Superfund program, and EPA security chief Pasquale “Nino” Perrotta: “Scott Pruitt should be the next to go. The exodus of Pruitt’s closest aides shows just how toxic his reign at EPA has become,” said Rep. Beyer. “Albert Kelly was never qualified to run Superfund, his banking ban was a huge red flag, and his resignation is a positive development. The EPA needs new leadership from public servants committed to its mission of protecting the environment and putting Americans’ public health first.” Reps. Beyer and Gerry Connolly requested an investigation by the EPA’s Inspector General of Albert Kelly’s hiring and work at the EPA one week ago.
05.01.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today wrote to Gail Stallworth Stone, the Acting Inspector General of the Social Security Administration (SSA), seeking an investigation to determine whether the SSA’s decision to close its Arlington field office complied with legal requirements imposed by Congress. Beyer wrote: “H.R. 1625, the Fiscal Year 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, contained language noting that your office is reviewing decisions to close field offices, including whether SSA has followed internal procedures in proposing consolidation, notifying the public and considering feedback from public input. The language specifically states that while the Inspector General review is ongoing, the Acting Commissioner should not make any final decisions related to field office locations under review. … “I raise this with respect to the proposed closure of the only SSA field office in Arlington, Virginia… I ask that you provide me with a full accounting of whether federal law, regulations and SSA procedures have been followed in the case of this proposed consolidation, including notification to the public and consideration of feedback from public input.” Full text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. Gail Stallworth Stone Acting Inspector General Social Security Administration (SSA) 300 Altmeyer Building 6401 Security Blvd. Woodlawn, MD 21235 Dear Acting Inspector General Stone: H.R. 1625, the Fiscal Year 2018 Consolidated Appropriations Act, contained language noting that your office is reviewing decisions to close field offices, including whether SSA has followed internal procedures in proposing consolidation, notifying the public and considering feedback from public input. The language specifically states that while the Inspector General review is ongoing, the Acting Commissioner should not make any final decisions related to field office locations under review. I raise this with respect to the proposed closure of the only SSA field office in Arlington, Virginia. The reason stated for the closure is the inability to find suitable space. Given the vacancy rate within Arlington County and the likely continued availability of the existing space, office space availability is not an issue. Indeed, Arlington County has made an overture to assist with finding a suitable space so that the field office can stay within the County. Closure of the field office will force my constituents to suffer from the lack of in-person services, especially to a metro accessible office. That is no small matter when many elderly and disabled Arlingtonians who may lack access to a car or internet access depend upon this field office. In addition, I am concerned that there has been no public notice and no public input in this decision. I ask that you consider these factors in your review of this proposal. I ask that you provide me with a full accounting of whether federal law, regulations and SSA procedures have been followed in the case of this proposed consolidation, including notification to the public and consideration of feedback from public input. Please provide this accounting in a timely manner as the office is proposed for closure on June 21st and I need to ensure my constituents maintain services. I look forward to your review of this and other office closure decisions and your recommendations for further action that best serves my constituents and the American public.
05.01.2018	Today, Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight, Congressman Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Environment, Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) sent two records request letters to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the General Services Administration (GSA). The letters request documents and communications regarding EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s efforts to establish a new EPA office in his hometown of Tulsa, Oklahoma, despite the fact that EPA already has a regional office in nearby Dallas, Texas. The Administrator requested the new office include a conference room, secure parking space, and a Secure Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF). Earlier this month the Government Accountability Office (GAO) ruled that the EPA’s construction of a “soundproof privacy booth in the EPA Administrator’s office” in Washington, D.C., which reportedly has not been certified as a SCIF, was unlawful because it violated the Antideficiency Act. It is unclear what progress the EPA and GSA have made in establishing a new EPA office in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The efforts first began in January 2017 when Mr. Ryan Jackson, the then Staff Director of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, asked the EPA to explore establishing a Tulsa office for Administrator Pruitt, just days before Mr. Jackson was hired by Administrator Pruitt as the EPA’s Chief of Staff. This most recent case of questionable financial management adds to the growing concerns about Administrator Pruitt’s misuse of taxpayers’ funds and potential ethical lapses in judgement. Aside from the recent GAO findings, the EPA Inspectors General’s (IG’s) office is currently investigating Administrator Pruitt’s frequent travel home to Oklahoma, his foreign trips, and his use of first class travel arrangements and charter aircraft. The IG’s office is also investigating his use of an EPA security detail on personal trips. The Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has requested material from Administrator Pruitt’s office regarding his arrangement to pay $50 per night to stay in a Washington, D.C. condominium owned by a lobbyist whose firm had clients with business before the EPA. In addition, Mick Mulvaney, Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has launched a review of Scott Pruitt’s spending habits as EPA Administrator. “Establishing a new EPA office in Tulsa may be personally convenient for you, but it seems ethically questionable, professionally unnecessary, and financially unjustified,” the Ranking Members wrote to Administrator Pruitt.
04.27.2018	Today, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and House Democrats held a press conference at Northern Virginia Community College to unveil the newest plank of their bold economic agenda, A Better Deal: Tools to Succeed in the 21st Century, which focuses on Democrats' commitment to investing in America's workers, pioneering future frontiers and modernizing government. "Too many families have been left behind by technological change, and left wondering where they fit in the economy of tomorrow," said Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. "Democrats are offering the American people A Better Deal, with Better Jobs, Better Wages and A Better Future, that gives every working American the tools to succeed in the 21st Century economy. We are presenting a bold, ambitious, new plan to secure America's position as the unrivaled technological superpower of the future, while investing in our workers to ensure that all share in the benefits of our national progress." “Republicans have spent the last year giving working people a raw deal. They’re selling a raw deal on health care, a raw deal on taxes and a raw deal that makes the wealthy and well-connected stronger while working people sacrifice more than ever before,” said House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee Co-Chair Congressman David Cicilline. “Democrats have A Better Deal - one that will create better jobs, better wages and a better future. We are going to invest in workers, break new ground and give the American people a government that is smart, effective and knows how to deliver results for the people it serves.” “Right now, millions of Americans are working in jobs that didn’t even exist ten years ago and millions more are working in jobs that will not exist ten years from now. If we make the right choices now to invest in education and training and strengthen worker rights, we can develop the workforce and workplaces equipped to meet the demands of our rapidly changing economy,” said Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member Bobby Scott. “I am pleased to be among my colleagues who will fight A Better Deal for working families.” “America has been defined by innovation, leadership and big ideas, but today we’re standing still as other countries invest in their future,” said Congresswoman Anna Eshoo. “Democrats commit to establishing the most critical platforms to reestablish American leadership by investing in R&D, science, technology and national infrastructure. We commit to a doubling of federal investments in scientific research, to the establishment of innovation hubs to better harness the ingenuity of our universities and national labs and to large scale-investments in our nation’s infrastructure. We must build, build, build, grow, grow, grow, and create jobs, jobs, jobs. This is our roadmap to a prosperous future for all Americans.” “Our country needs a comprehensive education strategy to be competitive in the 21st Century,” said Congressman Don Beyer. “Northern Virginia is a hub of new apprenticeship opportunities and one of the most educated places in the country, so it is fitting that we unveiled the workforce development leg of House Democrats’ A Better Deal here today. These are the kinds of bold ideas that we should adopt to give our children their best shot at success in tomorrow’s economy.” “To meet the challenges of the 21st Century, we need our government to embrace the best tools of the 21st Century, and that means modernizing our technology and the way we use it. By upgrading and securing our technical infrastructure, improving access to those resources and expanding the opportunities those investments create to more small businesses, we can create a more responsive, more effective government for every American family,” said Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi. The full A Better Deal: Tools to Succeed in the 21st Century can be viewed here.
04.27.2018	Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, I consistently hear a great deal from my constituents about pervasive, intrusive helicopter noise. I have carefully listened to them for years, through community forums, townhalls, letters, emails, phone calls, and the like. I have also worked with both the FAA and the Department of Defense on possible solutions. We certainly have a difficult balance to strike in the National Capital Region, but people shouldn't have to live under the constant thunder of helicopter noise. Helicopter noise, by all accounts, has gotten significantly worse year after year after year. Even those who are neighbors with the Pentagon have noticed it has gotten much worse. Last year, I had an amendment to the NDAA for the Department of Defense to conduct a study on mitigating the helicopter noise. We had excellent conversations. Colonels and majors came out from the Air Force, the Army, the Marines, and the FAA came out. We had big townhall meetings. In those conversations, we moved forward with a now completed DOD noise study. The Department of Defense has repeatedly informed me that they follow the FAA helicopter maps perfectly and that they fly at the required minimum altitudes. So as a solution, my amendment would require the FAA to simply review all the helicopter flight paths in the national capital region, including those used solely by the Department of Defense, to assess whether some of these helicopter trips could be safely flown at a higher altitude. If they can be, the amendment would also require the FAA to revise the official helicopter flight maps for this region to allow some relief for those communities that live below. Progress has remained very slow on this issue-glacial-and I urge my colleagues to vote "yes" on this amendment so that we can move forward with a responsible way to mitigate this helicopter noise. I reserve the balance of my time. [Chairman Bill Shuster rebuttal] Mr. BEYER. Mr. Chairman, with great respect to the chairman of the committee, the many conversations I have had with the general who runs the Washington Military District, with the Air Force and Army colonels, with the Marine major, and with many of the helicopter pilots, none of them have suggested for a moment that national security, homeland security, or law enforcement were at risk here. In fact, the pilots said: We would be happy to fly higher as long as we have permission from the FAA. We are not interfering in the slightest with their ability to accomplish their mission. We understand their mission. We respect it. No one is saying that we can't protect not only our nation's top executives, but also the military officers who need to fly in and around this region. What we are simply saying is that, in many cases, 300 feet, 500 feet, 700 feet is a more logical place to fly. We have had testimony that people have been in apartment buildings in Crystal City, looked out their window, and seen the helicopters fly below their window. This happens in Rosslyn, also. What we are simply asking is that the FAA responsibly look at whether-with lots of feedback from the Army, Air Force, Marines, from law enforcement, from the Secret Service-they couldn't, in fact, fly a few hundred feet higher than they fly right now. If they can't, we will accept that and do our best to move some other way. But, really, this is at the recommendation of our military leaders that the FAA examine this and find a way to move forward. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time. Video linked here, background here. Representative Beyer serves as co-Chair of the House Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Force, which crafts legislation to benefit hardworking Americans and middle-class families. He serves on the Joint Economic Committee, and previously ran a successful Northern Virginia business for over 40 years.
04.27.2018	Today, Congressmen Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) and Don Beyer (D-VA) released the Environmental Protection Agency Inspector General’s letter confirming that the IG is reviewing Administrator Scott Pruitt’s conduct in office. The letter was a response to calls by Mr. Lieu and Mr. Beyer for an IG investigation into Administrator Pruitt’s below-market condo lease, as well as an after-the-fact ethics justification for the arrangement. READ THE FULL LETTER HERE
04.26.2018	Scott Pruitt’s hearings today featured what was essentially an admission that he lied on FoxNews and, reportedly, to President Trump about his knowledge of raises given to key aides. It was one of the minority of questions he actually answered, amid a series of evasions, equivocations, pivots, filibusters, and falsehoods. His most common response was “I’m not aware.” Here are a few other key moments from Pruitt’s two hearings in the House of Representatives today: Pruitt admitted that he did not know whether he had paid taxes on earnings from an LLC through which he purchased a home from an Oklahoma lobbyist. Pruitt was unable to say whether Samantha Dravis, one of his closest aides, had shown up for work over a period of three months, during which she continued to draw a six-figure salary. Pruitt falsely claimed that his former Deputy Chief of Staff Kevin Chmielewski “resigned last year.” Earlier this month Chmielewski told the staffs of Members of Congress, including Rep. Beyer, that he had been placed on leave in retaliation for refusing to retroactively approve a first-class upgrade for Dravis on a flight to Morocco, and that he was then unaware of his employment status at the EPA. Pruitt appeared to admit that he had used the services of an EPA employee, Millan Hupp, to help him search for housing. This is improper even if it took place on personal time and using personal email, and it is not clear that it did. Pruitt was taken to task over wasteful spending and ethical lapses by Republicans on the Energy and Commerce Committee, including Ryan Costello of Pennsylvania and Leonard Lance of New Jersey. Pruitt repeatedly lied by stating that he was not aware of retaliation or adverse actions taken against whistleblowers at the EPA. This is a well-documented falsehood. Pruitt said he didn’t even know what biometric locks are, though such locks accounted for thousands of the tens of thousands of dollars spent on his personal security by the EPA and he would need to use them to enter his office, in an already secure building. Pruitt gave barely credible answers about the stewardship of the Superfund program under his friend, banned banker Albert Kelly. When asked about whether Mr. Kelly, his subordinate, would testify before Congress, Pruitt offered that he would “encourage him to do so.” Pruitt was unable to definitively say whether his lobbyist-landlord Steven Hart lobbied the EPA on any occasions other than the recently reported instance, which Pruitt falsely said on FoxNews had never happened. Pruitt had so much difficulty answering simple yes-or-know questions that it took him three tries to affirm that he is the EPA Administrator. Pruitt was the recipient of fiery denunciations, including comments that he had “a propensity for grift,” that he created a “toxic workplace,” and is a “poster child for abuse of the public trust.” He was told repeatedly to his face that he should resign. If there was any lingering question about whether these hearings today would make Pruitt’s massive cloud of scandal go away, we can assure you that to the contrary, his performance made his situation much worse.
04.25.2018	Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and Congressman Don Beyer (VA-08) today led 87 Representatives in urging Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to reinstate longstanding policy that requires factories and industrial operations to limit toxic air pollutants. In January, EPA announced the roll back of the “once in, always in” policy—critical guidance in place since 1995—without providing notice to the public or opportunity for comment. This policy institutes important safeguards to permanently reduce hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) known to cause cancer, reproductive harm and developmental issues in children. “The American public needs and deserves clean air and protection from hazardous air pollution,” the Representatives wrote. “This is a matter of critical human health and safety. We ask you to reverse your decision to rescind the ‘once in, always in’ policy, in order to safeguard future generations from harmful air pollutants.” The “once in, always in” policy focuses on “major sources” – factories and other large polluters that emit more than 10 tons of a single hazardous air pollutant such as mercury, arsenic, formaldehyde and lead, or 25 tons of more than one of these toxins. It requires polluters to use technology to permanently reduce, to the maximum extent possible, their emissions, which has resulted in an estimated reduction of 1.7 million tons of toxic air pollutants. Under the roll back, these polluters can legally increase their emissions of these hazardous air pollutants, causing serious health consequences for the public. “EPA’s unraveling of longstanding policy is among the most dangerous the Trump EPA has taken yet against public health,” said John Walke, Clean Air Director at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “We applaud Representatives Dingell and Beyer for opposing rollbacks of protective limits on known toxins, especially in communities already suffering a legacy of pollution.” In addition to Dingell and Beyer, the letter is signed by Reps. Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Paul D. Tonko (NY-20), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-00), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Diana DeGette (CO-01), Bill Foster (IL-11), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), Gwen S. Moore (WI-04), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-01), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24), Daniel W. Lipinski (IL-03), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP-00), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), John Sarbanes (MD-03), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Adam Smith (WA-09), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Darren Soto (FL-09), Jared Polis (CO-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), A. Donald McEachin (VA-04), Mark Takano (CA-41), James R. Langevin (RI-02), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Dwight Evans (PA-02), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), Salud O. Carbajal (CA-24), John Lewis (GA-05), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Ruben J. Kihuen (NV-04), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Ted W. Lieu (CA-33), Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Elijah E. Cummings (MD-07), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Susan A. Davis (CA-53), Kathy Castor (FL-14), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Garamendi (CA-03), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Emanuel Cleaver II (MO-05), Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Joseph P. Kennedy III (MA-04), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Daniel T. Kildee (MI-15), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Elizabeth H. Esty (CT-05), Ben Ray Luján (NM-03) and Zoe Lofgren (CA-19). The full letter can be read here and below. April 25, 2018 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt: We are concerned regarding the health and environmental consequences of a January 25, 2018, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) memo, which dramatically weakens protections against toxic air pollution by withdrawing the long standing “once in, always in” (OIAI) policy. As you know, the Clean Air Act requires EPA to limit emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), including many known to cause cancer, harm development in children, and kill. The lengthy list includes mercury, arsenic, formaldehyde, benzene, asbestos, chlorine, cyanide, and lead. In the Clean Air Act amendments of 1990, Congress made major changes to the way EPA regulates these toxic emissions because the agency had regulated only seven HAPs in the preceding 20 years. Congress acted out of deep concern that Americans were dying of cancer and facing other serious adverse health effects as a result of exposure to industrial HAPs. Congress was quite prescriptive in its direction to the agency: we required EPA to issue rules limiting emissions of 189 toxic HAPs, from all categories of “major sources” of these pollutants. The law requires the “maximum degree of reduction in [HAP] emissions … including a prohibition on such emissions, where achievable.” Sources must employ “maximum achievable control technology” or “MACT” to reduce HAP emissions to levels that the top-performing sources in an industry sector already meet. Congressional concern with these carcinogens and neurotoxins was so great that the law also contains additional safeguards: periodic reviews for control technology updates; residual cancer risk authorities; strict compliance directives; and anti-backsliding provisions. From 1995 until this year, sources emitting HAPs were required to meet MACT standards if, on the date that the MACT standard went into effect, they had the potential to emit 10 tons of any one HAP or 25 tons of any combination of HAPs, annually (“10/25 ton per year threshold”). To ensure major sources kept those protections in place, EPA implemented what became known as the “once in, always in” policy, requiring major sources to continue to meet HAP emission limits based on MACT, even as they lowered and maintained emissions at or below MACT limits. EPA recognized that, without this policy, polluting sources could curtail use of MACT and increase their HAP emissions substantially above MACT-based emission limits, all the way up to the 10/25 ton per year threshold. On January 25, without providing any notice to the public or opportunity for comment on its step, EPA reversed this decades-old understanding. In a four-page memorandum, EPA announced that sources currently complying with MACT air toxics standards now have the option of getting out of all MACT requirements if their emissions are below the 10/25 ton per year threshold. EPA will permit this even if sources are currently subject to one or more MACT standards that reduces HAPs emissions well below that threshold, and even if that means sources may increase their hazardous emissions significantly and increase the health hazards to Americans in neighboring communities. This is not the first time EPA has tried to weaken protections against toxic air pollution so radically. When EPA proposed to take this same step more than 10 years ago, the agency’s own regional offices expressed concern that the proposal would allow HAPs to increase, and “would be detrimental to the environment and undermine the intent of the MACT program.” The regional offices further argued that many plants would take the opportunity to use the less stringent requirements, and “the cost of the increased [HAP] emissions would be borne by the communities surrounding the sources.” An EPA political appointee claimed at the time that industry would be motivated to be good neighbors and not increase emissions. However, after Congress inquired pointedly, this claim was revealed this to be little more than speculation, with no basis in fact. Thanks to the concerns raised during the open and transparent rulemaking process, EPA did not make the mistake of finalizing a proposal that would have jeopardized the health and welfare of the American public. Now, the current EPA has decided to re-litigate the past, purporting to authorize through mere guidance the approach of the failed 2007 proposed rule, and granting immediate permission to industries to increase HAPs substantially. What’s more, we now have a snapshot of the potential toxic impacts this policy would have on communities near, and downwind from, the thousands of major sources subject to MACT. Last month, the Environmental Integrity Project released a brief analysis of the current HAP emissions of 12 major sources in the Midwest, and their potential emission increases without longstanding protections from HAPs. Combined, these facilities released over 121,000 pounds of HAPs annually in 2016, including neurotoxins like lead and carcinogens like benzene. Without the safeguards preserved in EPA’s 1995 policy, the report found that “the total emissions from these major sources could more than quadruple to a total of 540,000 pounds a year, because the new exemption allows such facilities to save money by cutting back on their pollution controls.” Furthermore, the report highlighted the danger in relying on corporations to report their emissions to prove their HAP emissions are below the 10/25 ton per year threshold and will remain there. The report noted major sources “seldom actually measure their hazardous emissions” on their own volition, so monitoring requirements were created in scores of MACT standards to keep them honest. But EPA’s reversal of an essential protection against toxic air pollution would allow industrial emitters to no longer meet the monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting requirements in MACT standards. This is in addition to letting polluting facilities evade the emission limits that protect Americans from increased HAPs. The Environmental Defense Fund released a second report assessing the toxic air pollution impacts on the Houston-Galveston region from EPA’s new loophole, focusing on at least 18 potentially eligible facilities. The report found that if all these facilities took advantage of the loophole to the maximum extent allowed by EPA’s January rollback, the “total annual emissions of hazardous air pollutants from these facilities would increase by almost 146 percent over 2014 levels, to a total of 900,000 pounds.” Moreover, the report identified eight more facilities that appear eligible for the loophole; adding these facilities would increase emissions by 400,000 more pounds. EPA’s new loophole would allow a total increase of an astonishing 1.3 million pounds of HAPs from just these 26 industrial facilities in the Houston-Galveston region. We share the serious concerns of those who opposed past attempts to undermine legal protections against HAP increases. The Environmental Integrity Project and Environmental Defense Fund analyses make our concerns far more pressing. This alarming information demands your immediate attention. The American public needs and deserves clean air and protection from hazardous air pollution. This is a matter of critical human health and safety. We ask you to reverse your decision to rescind the “once in, always in” policy, in order to safeguard future generations from harmful air pollutants. Thank you in advance for considering this timely and important request. Sincerely,
04.24.2018	Rep. Don Beyer has introduced an amendment to H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act, which would bar the US government from spending taxpayer money to pay the Trump Organization for lodging or other services. The amendment came days after a report was issued showing that Donald Trump’s businesses had raked in millions of dollars from political groups and the federal government. “Just as we feared, President Trump is using his office to profit directly from taxpayers,” said Rep. Beyer. “My amendment would put a stop to the direct flow of public funds into Trump’s businesses, but it is no substitute for the kind of robust congressional oversight needed to prevent this from happening, which has been sorely lacking under the Republican majority. As we continue to learn more about the culture of corruption in Trump’s cabinet, with wasteful spending by figures like Scott Pruitt, Ben Carson, Tom Price, and others, it’s clear that the bad behavior flows from Trump himself.” The Amendment bar the use of any Treasury funds “to pay directly or reimburse subsistence or lodging expenses of a Federal employee of official in the course of official Government travel or business at any hotel or property in which the President maintains a financial interest.” Text of the amendment can be found here.
04.24.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today offered a series of amendments to H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act, designed to mitigate the effects of aircraft noise on communities in the National Capital Region. “Hundreds of my constituents have expressed to me their frustrations with the slow pace of change prompted by their input to government authorities about aircraft noise,” said Rep. Beyer. “This problem isn’t getting better quickly enough. Northern Virginians have been patient, but there is more that can be done to reduce the toll taken by noisy aircraft on our community.” He offered two amendments related to airplane noise which would expand discretionary grants which fund noise compatibility programs, noise mitigation projects, and soundproofing of houses in affected communities. Additionally, Beyer will throw his full support behind an amendment to the same legislation offered by Rep. Barbara Comstock, which would block the expansion of flight slots in the region’s airports, increasing the quantity of flights and the resulting noise from aircraft. Beyer also offered two amendments based on feedback from constituents presented during his Fairlington town hall on helicopter noise in January. One amendment would require the FAA to review helicopter flight paths, including Department of Defense and all other military helicopters, to find areas where they may fly at higher altitudes to reduce noise for communities below (Text). The other would require the FAA to set up a noise inquiry website using data from local airports, and to establish a helicopter noise abatement working group to look for ways to reduce helicopter noise in the region (Text).
04.24.2018	Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) today sent a letter to the Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) seeking an investigation of EPA Senior Adviser to the Administrator Albert Kelly. Kelly was appointed to oversee the Superfund program without qualifications in environmental protection; he had previously provided EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt a series of bank loans for business deals in Oklahoma. Kelly was permanently banned from the banking industry by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) last July. “Mr. Kelly came to this position without the necessary qualifications, and with serious and still-unexplained red flags, and his conduct has raised ethical, regulatory and potential legal issues that we believe your office should examine. … “On July 27, 2017, the FDIC issued new findings against Albert Kelly and permanently banned him from the banking industry… We urge you to investigate his fitness to manage the EPA Superfund program and whether his appointment followed appropriate procedures, given the serious findings and disciplinary action by the FDIC. “As an applicant to a position as a senior official in the federal government, Mr. Kelly’s behavior should have been the subject of a “suitability” review. According to the federal Office of Personnel Management (OPM) “determinations of ‘suitability’ are based on “an individual’s character or conduct that may have an impact on the integrity or efficiency of the service.” … “According to media reports and a Department of Justice (DOJ) response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request for EPA documents, under Kelly’s leadership, the Superfund Task Force which he oversees has failed to document its meetings or properly record its activities. The creation, retention, and provision of public access to federal records generated by the [Superfund] task force is required under the Federal Records Act and the EPA’s own Records Management Policy… Transparency and public accountability on such matters have been recurring problems for Administrator Pruitt’s team, and in this case may have included the violation of regulations or even federal law.” The loans Kelly provided to Pruitt in Oklahoma have been the subject of several recent media reports. Kelly himself recently cancelled an appearance to discuss Superfund with a local community in West Virginia because, as his assistant told the audience, he was “with Scott Pruitt battling the press.” It is unclear who is managing Kelly’s Superfund responsibilities while he helps Pruitt manage the fallout from his many scandals. Full text of the letter follows below, and a signed copy is available here. Rep. Beyer is the Vice-Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and Rep. Connolly is the Vice-Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, both of which have jurisdiction over the EPA. The Honorable Arthur A. Elkins, Jr. Inspector General (IG) Office of Inspector General (OIG) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20460 Dear Inspector General Elkins: We write with concerns about the governance of the EPA’s Superfund program, and about Albert Kelly, the official Administrator Scott Pruitt assigned to oversee it. The Superfund is responsible for cleanup of toxic waste sites in nearly every state, and receives over one-tenth of the EPA’s total budget. Mr. Kelly came to this position without the necessary qualifications, and with serious and still-unexplained red flags, and his conduct has raised ethical, regulatory and potential legal issues that we believe your office should examine. At the time of his appointment by Administrator Pruitt, Mr. Kelly’s resume showed no qualifications related to environmental regulation nor to the oversight of a government agency. His career experience was nearly all in banking, until the FDIC issued an “Order of Prohibition from Further Participation” against him – a lifetime ban, as well as a fine of $125,000.[1][2] Mr. Kelly’s only apparent connections to environmental regulation were his investments in companies deemed by the EPA to be responsible for the creation of Superfund sites and his longstanding friendship and financial relationship with Administrator Pruitt.[3] His family-owned bank—of which he was the President, CEO, and later Chairman--provided four substantial loans to Scott Pruitt in 2003 and 2004, totaling nearly $1 million dollars.[4] On May 9, 2017, Albert Kelly was fined $125,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) because the FDIC “ha[d] reason to believe that [Kelly] violated a law or regulation, by entering into an agreement pertaining to a loan by [his] Bank without FDIC approval.”[5] On May 22, 2017, in a memo to senior advisors, Administrator Pruitt outlined a plan to prioritize the Superfund program, which he deemed “at the center of the agency’s core mission,” and created a Superfund Task Force, which he announced would be chaired by his longtime donor and loan provider Albert Kelly.[6] On June 23, 2017, two weeks after Mr. Kelly’s appointment began, he was converted to a non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) position in the EPA. On July 27, 2017, the FDIC issued new findings against Albert Kelly and permanently banned him from the banking industry.[7] The FDIC had reason to believe that Albert Kelly (a) “has engaged or participated in a violation of law or regulation, unsafe or unsound practice, and/or breach of fiduciary duty.” The FDIC’s order determined that these violations demonstrated Mr. Kelly’s “unfitness to serve as a director, officer, person participating in the conduct of the affairs or as an institution-affiliated party of the Bank, [or] any other insured depository institution….”[8] Despite such a severe action from a federal financial institution, Mr. Kelly now oversees a landmark environmental program with a budget of one billion dollars. We urge you to investigate his fitness to manage the EPA Superfund program and whether his appointment followed appropriate procedures, given the serious findings and disciplinary action by the FDIC. As an applicant to a position as a senior official in the federal government, Mr. Kelly’s behavior should have been the subject of a “suitability” review. According to the federal Office of Personnel Management (OPM) “determinations of ‘suitability’ are based on “an individual’s character or conduct that may have an impact on the integrity or efficiency of the service.”[9] The FDIC findings regarding Mr. Kelly should have weighed heavily on any appointment. Even if Mr. Kelly was cleared for employment with EPA prior to the FDIC’s findings against him, the questions raised by the FDIC should have warranted a new review. In addition to serious concerns about Mr. Kelly’s suitability to enter government service, it appears that now, as a senior official at EPA, his practices already may have violated EPA policy. According to media reports and a Department of Justice (DOJ) response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request for EPA documents, under Kelly’s leadership, the Superfund Task Force which he oversees has failed to document its meetings or properly record its activities.[10] The creation, retention, and provision of public access to federal records generated by the task force is required under the Federal Records Act and the EPA’s own Records Management Policy. [11] Such records are of great importance because they document the point of origin for policy proposals by the Superfund Task Force, and whether such proposals are conceived and advanced by political staff, scientific advisers, or industry. Transparency and public accountability on such matters have been recurring problems for Administrator Pruitt’s team, and in this case may have included the violation of regulations or even federal law. Based on the information above, we request that the EPA’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) investigate the following matters: Did Mr. Kelly appropriately disclose to EPA and/or OPM that he was under investigation by FDIC when he was hired as Administrator Pruitt’s senior advisor on April 23, 2017? Did Mr. Kelly violate any federal ethical guidelines, regulations, statutes or laws related to failure to disclose details of the FDIC investigation into his improper banking activities? Did EPA officials conducting Mr. Kelly’s background investigation and suitability review adequately vet his background, including contacting the FDIC? Given the FDIC’s ultimate decision on July 27, 2017, to ban Albert C. Kelly from the banking industry, did EPA seek a new suitability review of Mr. Kelly? Did EPA Administrator Pruitt, or any other senior EPA officials, interfere with the Agency’s background investigation or suitability review of Mr. Kelly? Whom did Mr. Kelly consult in the process of drafting his May 22 list of recommendations?[12] Did any of those recommendations include requests made to Mr. Kelly by entities regulated by the EPA, or their advocates? Did Mr. Kelly ask or advise Superfund staff not to keep proper records of their meetings? Did Mr. Kelly, or any other EPA official, violate the Federal Records Act (FRA) or EPA records policies or practices regarding the creation and retention of federal records that should have been created and maintained by the Superfund Task Force? To discuss this request in more detail or to answer any questions please have your staff contact Lauren Sarkesian of my staff at (202) 226-0055. Your assistance in this matter is greatly appreciated. [1] https://www.eenews.net/assets/2017/05/26/document_gw_04.pdf [2] https://www.apnews.com/649fb04caa70402789c667792019a0f5 [3] https://www.politicopro.com/energy/whiteboard/2018/02/pruitt-superfund-adviser-has-significant-energy-income-holdings-655922 [4] https://theintercept.com/2017/12/28/scott-pruitt-failed-banker-running-epa-superfund-program/ [5] Stipulation and Consent to the Issuance of an Order to Pay, In the Matter of ALBERT C. KELLY, individually, and as an institution-affiliated party of SPIRITBANK, TULSA, OKLAHOMA, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), FDIC-15-0180k, May 9, 2017. [6] https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2017-05/documents/prioritizing_the_superfund_program_memo_5-22-2017.pdf [7] https://www.apnews.com/649fb04caa70402789c667792019a0f5 [8] Order of Prohibition from Further Participation, In the Matter of ALBERT C. KELLY, individually, and as an institution-affiliated party of SPIRITBANK, TULSA, OKLAHOMA, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), FDIC-15-0179e, July 27, 2017. [9] https://www.opm.gov/investigations/suitability-executive-agent/policy/decision-making-guide.pdf [10] https://apnews.com/64759348d0da4c7b8ebff04570d26f71 [11] https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2015-03/documents/cio-2155.3.pdf [12] https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2017-07/documents/superfund_task_force_report.pdf
04.24.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt’s announcement that the EPA would implement so-called “secret science” standards for agency rulemaking: “The idea that Scott Pruitt, the least transparent and least science-friendly Administrator in the history of the EPA, is suddenly concerned about the transparency of scientific studies is nonsense,” said Rep. Beyer. “This attack on science is another reminder of the endemic corruption that Scott Pruitt has brought to the EPA, and his willingness to serve industry over the public.” Recent emails obtained by the Union of Concerned Scientists showed that Pruitt’s anti-science proposal was developed with careful consideration for industry and little regard for the rule’s impact on privacy or public health. That proposal was the subject of a letter of opposition yesterday signed by nearly 1,000 scientists and technical experts. Rep. Beyer was a vocal opponent of previous legislative attempts in Congress to push “secret science” policies through the House Science Committee, including the “Honest” Act and the EPA Science Advisory Board Act, both of which he criticized sharply in Committee hearings and on the House Floor.
04.23.2018	Today, U.S. Senators Tom Carper (D-Del.), top Democrat on the Environment and Public Works Committee, and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Representatives Elijah E. Cummings (D-Md.), top Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) and Don Beyer (D-Va.) sent a letter to Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) transmitting new documents that they have obtained regarding the security sweep of his office performed prior to construction. The lawmakers wrote, “Documents provided to us from within EPA indicate that as of March 2017, the Administrator’s office was not cleared for classified communications. The phone booth, which was installed months later, appears to be a ‘privacy booth’ installed by a vendor that describes itself as a ‘manufacturer and distributor of acoustical products’ whose mission is ‘to solve sound and noise control problems to improve every environment of your life.’ Even if the phone booth itself is authorized to receive top secret communications, that would mean classified information is being received in an otherwise not-secured location, preventing the Administrator from discussing it with any other cleared person. EPA already has two Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (known as ‘SCIFs’) in its Washington DC headquarters which do not suffer from this infirmity.” The letter continues, “In addition, we are providing unclassified but non-public documents that also cast doubt on EPA’s spending on enhanced security measures and the process used for obtaining them. Senators Carper and Whitehouse have previously written to EPA with concerns that Pasquale ‘Nino’ Perrotta, the Acting Special Agent in Charge of Administrator Pruitt’s security detail, improperly directed a contract to his business partner Edwin Steinmetz…These new documents raise serious questions about EPA’s security expenditures. They also raise questions about the role Mr. Perrotta played selecting Mr. Steinmetz for a security sweep, particularly after being advised by EPA officials that such sweeps are governed by National Security Council regulations.” “Given the latest developments and these new documents, we believe these and related matters are ripe for additional document requests to EPA and that Administrator Pruitt should testify about all of these matters immediately,” the Democrats concluded. The full text of the letter to Chairman Gowdy can be found below, and in PDF form here. April 23, 2018 The Honorable Trey Gowdy Chairman Committee on Oversight and Government Reform U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Chairman: We write to update you on some troubling developments regarding Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt’s security spending and personnel decisions and to provide you documents we have obtained that shed further light on these matters. Last week, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) concluded that the expenditure of $43,000 to construct a soundproof phone booth in the Administrator’s office violated both Section 710 of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act of 2017 and the Antideficiency Act. Administrator Pruitt informed members of Congress that he needed a “secure phone line” in his office in order to communicate with the White House.[1] EPA claimed to GAO that the phone booth “not only enables the Administrator to make and receive phone calls to discuss sensitive information, but it also enables him to use this area to make and receive classified telephone calls (up to the top secret level) for the purpose of conducting agency business.”[2] Documents provided to us from within EPA indicate that as of March 2017, the Administrator’s office was not cleared for classified communications. The phone booth, which was installed months later, appears to be a “privacy booth”[3] installed by a vendor that describes itself as a “manufacturer and distributor of acoustical products” whose mission is “to solve sound and noise control problems to improve every environment of your life.”[4] Even if the phone booth itself is authorized to receive top secret communications, that would mean classified information is being received in an otherwise not-secured location, preventing the Administrator from discussing it with any other cleared person. EPA already has two Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (known as “SCIFs”) in its Washington D.C. headquarters, which do not suffer from this infirmity. While GAO drew “no conclusions regarding whether the installation of the privacy booth was the only, or the best, way for EPA to provide a secure telephone line for the Administrator,”[5] we believe that to be an important topic for further investigation by Congress. In addition, we are providing unclassified but non-public documents that also cast doubt on EPA’s spending on enhanced security measures and the process used for obtaining them. Senators Carper and Whitehouse have previously written to EPA with concerns that Pasquale “Nino” Perrotta, the Acting Special Agent in Charge of Administrator Pruitt’s security detail, improperly directed a contract to his business partner Edwin Steinmetz.[6] • In an email dated February 27, 2017, a senior official in the Facilities Management and Services Division of the Office of Administration and Resources Management (OARM) wrote that “the Administrator made a request through his personal security detail…who reached out to OARM for support in doing a ‘sweep’ of the Administrator’s office.” The official wrote that “the National Security Council provides a number of regulations regarding TSCMs for the Federal Government and its employees.”[7] That same day, Mr. Perrotta responded, writing, “Please wait on any further movement on this thanks! The front office will advise shortly.” • On or about March 3, 2017, an electronic sweep of Administrator Pruitt’s office was conducted under a contract awarded to Edwin Steinmetz, who is a partner with Mr. Perrotta in the Sequoia Security Group. We have been informed that this contract may have been paid for through the use of an EPA credit card without first obtaining the required pre-approval. The non-public documents we are providing today include Mr. Steinmetz’s March 3, 2017, “Technical Surveillance Countermeasures Privacy Protection Audit.” His report found that “no covert surveillance devices were present.” • EPA’s Office of Homeland Security provided a copy of the Steinmetz report to a senior TSCM technical expert in the federal intelligence community (outside EPA). Based in part on information received from that expert, EPA’s Office of Homeland Security concluded in late April 2017 that the sweep was “very basic and cursory” and “did not employ the equipment, proper certification, or necessary processes to be approved by the USG for certifying a USG facility or space for classified information systems or classified discussion.” • EPA Office of Homeland Security officials transmitted its report to seven EPA officials, including John Reeder, Reginald Allen, John Martin, and Mario Caraballo. Each of these named individuals reportedly has been reassigned or otherwise retaliated against for questioning Administrator Pruitt’s spending or security measures.[8] These new documents raise serious questions about EPA’s security expenditures. They also raise questions about the role Mr. Perrotta played selecting Mr. Steinmetz for a security sweep, particularly after being advised by EPA officials that such sweeps are governed by National Security Council regulations. In our view, the documents provided to us may constitute evidence of a “violation of law, rule, regulation, gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety.”[9] As such, any adverse personnel action against a person providing this information to Congress is prohibited under the Whistleblower Protection Act, and it is in our shared interest that these rights be protected. Given the latest developments and these new documents, we believe these and related matters are ripe for additional document requests to EPA and that Administrator Pruitt should testify about all of these matters immediately. We thank you for your prompt attention and look forward to working with you.
04.20.2018	Congressional Safe Climate Caucus co-chairs Reps. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) and Don Beyer (VA-08) issued the following statement to honor the 48th anniversary of Earth Day: “This Earth Day finds the United States’ commitment to environmental leadership under attack by the Trump Administration, and our efforts to provide clean air and water to our citizens and a livable planet to future generations under threat. “The people of this country deserve committed public servants who will fight for them, against climate change and other threats to public health. We urge President Trump to mark Earth Day by firing Scott Pruitt and replacing him with someone who will return the Environmental Protection Agency to its core mission, rather than using their position for perks and schemes at Americans’ expense.”
04.18.2018	This week the number of investigations into embattled EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s ethics lapses and wasteful spending grew substantially, and more may be announced in coming weeks. The latest wave of investigations came as the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report saying that Pruitt had broken laws when he ordered the installation of a $43,000 “secure privacy booth” without informing Congress: The General Accountability Office has already determined that Pruitt broke laws when he installed a privacy booth at exorbitant expense; the nonpartisan investigator has also been asked to look into the raises Pruitt gave to staff using an obscure legal loophole and his purges of the EPA’s advisory boards. The House Oversight Committee asked Pruitt for a series of documents and witness interviews spanning many of his scandals. The House Energy and Commerce Committee is now “seeking information on a flood of ethics questions and lavish spending” by Pruitt. The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee is investigating Pruitt’s use of multiple emails, and whether he evaded FOIA requests. The White House said it would probe Pruitt’s relationship with an energy lobbyist who gave him a special deal on his condo rent. The Office of Management and Budget will investigate Pruitt’s wasteful spending of $43,000 on a privacy booth. The EPA Office of the Inspector General is currently conducting investigations into Pruitt over (1) his possible violation of anti-lobbying laws (2) his spending on security (3) his expensive privacy booth, and (4A) his travel, a probe which it subsequently (4B) expanded (4C) twice. The EPA Office of the Inspector General is also weighing requests by Reps. Don Beyer and Ted Lieu and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse to determine whether Pruitt violated any laws or regulations with his condo arrangement. The Office of Government Ethics is not empowered to investigate or punish ethics lapses at the EPA, but its acting head still sent a letter outlining a series of concerns about Pruitt’s potential ethics lapses to EPA ethics officials. While Pruitt remains in office, additional investigations of his many wasteful and unethical activities are likely to follow. Representative Beyer is the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight. He has led numerous oversight initiatives focused on Pruitt’s tenure at the EPA, was the first Member of Congress to issue a formal statement calling for Scott Pruitt’s resignation, and led 64 House Democrats urging the President to dismiss Pruitt. He serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus.
04.17.2018	Today, Reps. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), and Don Beyer (D-VA) sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions seeking information about allegations that the Executive Office for Immigration Review and the Department of Justice are engaging in illegal political discrimination when hiring immigration judges and members of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA). “We are writing to express our grave concern regarding allegations we have received from whistleblowers indicating that the Department of Justice may be using ideological and political considerations to improperly—and illegally—block the hiring of immigration judges and members of the Board of Immigration Appeals,” the Members wrote. The Members noted in their letter that basing hiring decisions on ideology or political affiliation violates federal law and Department policy. “These allegations are extremely troubling not only because they may violate federal law and repeat the mistakes of the past, but also because they further aggravate the critical need for more immigration judges and BIA officials to address the massive backlogs in immigration hearings across the country,” the Members wrote. In 2008, an investigation conducted by the Inspector General and the Office of Professional Responsibility found that aides to then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales “considered political or ideological affiliations” when evaluating immigration judge candidates and candidates for the BIA. The report warned that “both Department policy and federal law prohibit discrimination in hiring for career positions on the basis of political affiliations.” “Our offices recently received information alleging that the Department of Justice has targeted multiple candidates for immigration judge or BIA positions based on their perceived political or ideological views. These candidates reportedly have had their offers suspended or withdrawn due to these improper considerations,” the Members wrote. “We have confirmed that the Department has delayed multiple offers for these positions for unusually long amounts of time and, in one case, withdrew an offer with an explanation that raises suspicions about the actual motive for the withdrawal.” The Members requested a list of candidates for immigration judge or BIA positions that have been pending for more than one year, individuals who have been given appointments as immigration judges or appointed to the BIA since January 20, 2017, and candidates who passed background checks for these positions but have not been given appointments or had their offers withdrawn. Click here to read the full letter.
04.16.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement after the Government Accountability Office (GAO), a Congressional investigative agency, determined that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt violated the Antideficiency Act by installing a $43,000 “soundproof privacy booth” without informing Congress: “Now that we know that Scott Pruitt’s secrecy extended to the point of breaking the law, the next question Congress needs answered is how many other laws Pruitt has broken,” said Rep. Beyer. “We are only just beginning to learn about what Scott Pruitt has really been up to during his corrupt reign at the EPA. Congress must initiate further oversight to get answers for the public, and hold those responsible for wrongdoing accountable.” Scott Pruitt faces increasing pressure from Democrats and Republicans to provide answers about his numerous scandals as his conduct at EPA comes under heightened scrutiny. Representative Beyer is the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight. He has led numerous oversight initiatives focused on Pruitt’s tenure at the EPA, was the first Member of Congress to issue a formal statement calling for Scott Pruitt’s resignation, and led 64 House Democrats urging the President to dismiss Pruitt. He serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus.
04.14.2018	“The President’s sudden decision to attack Syria is a dangerous abuse of his constitutional authority. "The atrocities committed by the Assad regime are appalling and require a measured response, but that response must be part of a larger strategy, and approved by Congress. The Constitution and the War Powers Resolution require congressional authorization for the use of military force, and claims that action in Syria would be justified by the post-9/11 Authorization simply are not valid. "Instead of presenting a strategy calculated to achieve goals in the national interest or even humanitarian objectives, however, the President has telegraphed indecision and instability to our allies and enemies alike. He steadfastly refused to honor American commitments to take in Syrian refugees, suspended humanitarian aid to Syria, and signaled his intention to withdraw US forces from the country less than two weeks ago. "I fervently hope for the safety of our courageous men and women in uniform. Putting them in harm’s way should always be the result of steady, determined leadership, but our President seems to have done it in on a whim. This is a frightening moment for our country.”
04.12.2018	Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) sent a letter to President Donald Trump and a letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt expressing grave concerns about stunning new revelations they received this week from Kevin Chmielewski—a long-time supporter and campaign aide of President Trump who served as Pruitt’s Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations at EPA. In their letter to President Trump, the Members described the meeting with the whistleblower earlier this week and called on the President to finally hold Pruitt accountable: “While Mr. Chmielewski described himself as a lifelong Republican and a strong supporter of yours and the Vice President, he painted an extremely troubling picture of wasteful spending, unethical behavior, and improper retaliation against EPA staff on the part of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. … Given your recent statements about Administrator Pruitt’s ethical troubles, it appears that you may not have not received all the facts surrounding Administrator Pruitt’s spending, security arrangements, travel, living arrangements, and personnel actions, among other things. … Mr. Chmielewski said to us when explaining his decision to speak out against Administrator Pruitt that, regardless of political party, ‘right is right, and wrong is wrong.’ We believe that if you speak with knowledgeable parties like Mr. Chmielewski and examine relevant documents, it will become clear that the right course of action in this case is to hold Administrator Pruitt accountable for his serious ethical lapses and to restore honest, competent leadership to EPA so that this important agency may fulfill its critical mission.” The Members also sent a more detailed letter to Pruitt setting forth a lengthy set of specific allegations made by the whistleblower, and the Members made requests for multiple broad categories of documents based on the whistleblower’s disclosures. The Members wrote to Pruitt: “Mr. Chmielewski described an environment in which you sought to marginalize, remove or otherwise retaliate against agency employees who advised you not to take these troubling actions, or refused to take or justify such actions at your direction. Mr. Chmielewski claims that when he first started in his role as a politically appointed Senior Executive Service official at EPA, Chief of Staff Ryan Jackson informed him that ‘the nightmare is now yours.’ Mr. Chmielewski said those words turned out to be accurate. As Mr. Chmielewski learned more about your wasteful spending, irresponsible travel and inappropriate security efforts, he reported that he also learned that ‘every time you tried to find out about something you got in trouble.’ He said that when he refused to approve your inappropriate and unethical spending, he claimed he was marginalized, removed from his senior position and placed on administrative leave. He said that he watched as others were punished, demoted, and retaliated against when they tried to resist inappropriate directions that came from you or through your favored staff. … The new information provided by Mr. Chmielewski, if accurate, leaves us certain that your leadership at EPA has been fraught with numerous and repeated unethical and potentially illegal actions on a wide range of consequential matters that you and some members of your staff directed.” Click here to read the full letter to President Trump. Click here to read the full letter to EPA Administrator Pruitt.
04.11.2018	It has been two weeks since the public began to find out just how badly EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has been behaving. What we know about Pruitt’s actions keeps getting worse, but here’s a snapshot before the next stories break: Quid Pro Condo It has only been two weeks since we learned that Pruitt got a sweetheart deal on a condo from an energy lobbyist. Pruitt tried to justify that secret arrangement with excuses that quickly fell apart: Pruitt claimed that ethics officials cleared his arrangement. The ethics official walked that back. Pruitt claimed he paid a fair, market rate to his lobbyist landlord. That isn’t true. Pruitt claimed his lobbyist landlord has no clients with business before the EPA. That isn’t true. We still don’t have a full picture of why taxpayers were forced to cover the cost of a destroyed door at the condo, and now the acting head of the Office of Government Ethics is raising questions about Pruitt’s conduct. What About Those Raises? After The Atlantic reported that Pruitt used an obscure legislative loophole to give his favorite aides huge raises of tens of thousands of dollars, despite a rejection of those raises by the White House, Pruitt went on FoxNews to deny that he had any prior knowledge of the raises. But internal emails strongly suggest that he lied. Scott Pruitt’s Chief of Staff tried to shield his boss from blame by claiming he approved the raises without Pruitt’s knowledge – which may have been illegal – but, tellingly, Pruitt has done nothing to hold him accountable. If Pruitt’s Chief of Staff overruled the White House without his boss’ knowledge to give aides tens of thousands of dollars, you’d think Pruitt would be upset enough to punish him. Pruitt could clear up what really happened at any time by publicizing documents of internal exchanges which led to the raises. Instead, his aides are trying to conceal evidence from investigators. Pruitt’s Paranoia Fuels Wasteful Spending Pruitt spent TRIPLE what his predecessors spent on security, an estimated $3,000,000. He was also so concerned for his personal safety that he “diverted officers away from investigating environmental crimes in order to protect him…” …which also includes exorbitant spending on first class travel, a secure phone booth, biometric locks, and a bug sweep of his office. And there are strong reasons to doubt that Pruitt’s massive spending of taxpayer dollars to protect him were justified by actual threats. How Has Pruitt Responded? Pruitt tried to silence the people who objected to his abuses, including retaliations against whistleblowers. He has not backed up his explanations with evidence or released documents to support his claims that raises were given to his staff without his knowledge. This Definitely Affects EPA Policy Pruitt’s decisions at the EPA have real impacts on American lives. This scandal has offered glaring evidence that, under Scott Pruitt, EPA policy – and the public health of the people in the country – is for sale.
04.10.2018	Rep. Don Beyer released the following statement today marking Equal Pay Day – the day when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year, on average: “It is profoundly wrong that women in the U.S. workforce still only earn 80 cents on average for every dollar a man makes. The pay gap is not only unfair, but it prevents us from reaching our true economic potential. For women of color, this unjust wage gap is even wider, and the barriers to success are even steeper. We still have a long way to go, and I fear that policies implemented by the Trump Administration will slow our progress. “Closing the gender pay gap is a primary focus for me in Congress, and I mark this Equal Pay Day as another in a long series of signposts that we need to make our society fairer, faster.” Representative Beyer hosts an annual women’s conference in his district focused on women’s empowerment and professional development, featuring advice for women in the workplace from successful businesswomen. He joined with Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) to hold a gender parity forum in 2017, and worked with her to introduce the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act and the Gender Diversity in Corporate Leadership Act. Beyer is an original cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act.
04.06.2018	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and David Cicilline (D-RI) today led 64 House Democrats calling for the immediate dismissal of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt. In a letter to President Donald Trump, the Representatives raised Pruitt’s unethical behavior, wasteful use of taxpayer money, and numerous actions which contravened the EPA’s mission. The Representatives wrote: “Pruitt worked out a special deal on housing rent with the wife of an industry lobbyist who represents companies regulated by the EPA and who was an active contributor to his political career. More specifically, Pruitt paid just $50/night for a Capitol Hill condominium, and only for the nights he used a bedroom in the townhouse, a sum well below the market value. Pruitt’s daughter also stayed in the townhouse in a separate room, at no added cost. … “Administrator Pruitt is under several EPA IG investigations for his wasteful use of taxpayer money. The IG is investigating Pruitt’s decision to enter the EPA into a contract for a new $43,000 secure phone booth inside his office, despite the fact that two secure facilities already exist in the same building. It is also investigating his extravagant travel habits.… “The EPA’s mission is to protect human health and the environment. Administrator Pruitt has repeatedly directed the agency to act counter to that mission. Pruitt has taken efforts to weaken the agency of its scientific expertise. He has marginalized staff experts, refusing to meet with them, and actively worked to reduce the size of the agency.… “For these reasons, we ask that you fire Scott Pruitt from the Environmental Protection Agency immediately. A man under numerous investigations both for ethical concerns and wasteful spending, who has actively moved to undermine environmental rules and regulations at industry request, is antithetical to the job of EPA Administrator. Mr. Pruitt needs to go.” Full text of the letter is available below, and a signed copy is available here. Representative Beyer is the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight. He serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus. April 6, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We formally request that you ask Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to resign. Scott Pruitt’s unethical behavior, wasteful use of taxpayer money, and his efforts to undermine the EPA’s core mission to protect our environment and public health demand an appropriate response: his resignation or his firing. Unethical Behavior Pruitt worked out a special deal on housing rent with the wife of an industry lobbyist who represents companies regulated by the EPA and who was an active contributor to his political career. More specifically, Pruitt paid just $50/night for a Capitol Hill condominium, and only for the nights he used a bedroom in the townhouse, a sum well below the market value. Pruitt’s daughter also stayed in the townhouse in a separate room, at no added cost. More concerning to us are the conflicts of interest involved with his condominium arrangement. Companies represented by his lobbyist-landlord received EPA approval during his stay in the townhouse—the extent of which we do not fully know yet. The townhouse is also a known GOP fundraiser site, and several fundraisers were held during the timeframe that Administrator Pruitt was staying there. Pruitt did not report the details of this concerning arrangement to ethics counsel at the EPA, nor to the public, beforehand. Separately, this past March, the White House Presidential Personnel Office denied Administrator Pruitt’s request to substantially increase the salary of two of his staffers, who came from Oklahoma with him to DC. Seemingly unwilling to take “no” for an answer, Pruitt used an obscure provision of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and “ordered” EPA to give those two Oklahoma staffers salary increases of $28,130 and $56,765—an issue the EPA Inspector General (IG) is now reviewing. In an interview after reports of the pay raises surfaced this week, Administrator Pruitt denied any knowledge of the matter. According to press reports, one of those staffers was also responsible for securing his personal housing arrangements. Pruitt also used this obscure legal provision to hire several industry lobbyists, a loophole that allows him to avoid having those hires sign your ethics pledge. Administrator Pruitt has also engaged in potential anti-lobbying violations: the Government Accountability Office is investigating his appearance in a National Cattlemen’s Beef Association video urging farmers to comment on proposed changes to the Clean Water Rule; and, the IG is already reviewing Pruitt’s call for a mining group to lobby on the Paris climate agreement. Administrator Pruitt also continually refuses to recuse himself on issues under EPA consideration. As Attorney General (AG) of Oklahoma, Pruitt sued the EPA 14 times, and in 13 of those 14 cases, regulated industries were also parties. Mr. Pruitt and his affiliated Political Action Committees received campaign contributions from co-parties like Murray Energy, Peabody Energy and Southern Power Company. It was also found that Mr. Pruitt lied during his confirmation hearing by saying that he never used private email as AG, although private emails surfaced between AG Pruitt and Devon Energy, directly disputing his statement. The core mission of the EPA is to protect the environment and human health. Yet, Administrator Pruitt spent most of his first year in office meeting with his industry stakeholders – meetings that undoubtedly influenced his policy directives and decision-making at the EPA. According to a Washington Post analysis of his public schedule, Pruitt held 218 meetings in 2017 with representatives of industries he regulates, while only meeting a dozen times with environmental and public health groups. In one case, just hours after meeting with the CEO of a foreign mining company, the Pebble Limited Partnership (PLP), EPA Administrator Pruitt directed his staff to withdraw from a plan to protect the watershed of Bristol Bay, Alaska under the Clean Water Act’s 404(c) process in order to push forward a controversial proposal to build one of the world’s largest open pit copper and gold mines there. Administrator Pruitt has actively stacked the EPA with friends and industry insiders. An analysis by the Associated Press found that one-third of 59 new EPA political appointee positions it tracked were registered lobbyists or lawyers for fossil fuel producers, chemical manufacturers or other corporate clients. Pruitt also installed unqualified friends in EPA positions that don’t require Senate confirmation. To lead the EPA’s Superfund Task Force, Pruitt hired his friend Albert Kelly, who had previously provided three loans to Pruitt through his bank before being barred from the banking industry for life by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). The FDIC determined in May 2017 that it “ha[d] reason to believe that [Kelly] violated a law or regulation, by entering into an agreement pertaining to a loan by the Bank without FDIC approval” and in July determined that he was unfit to serve in any banking or banking-affiliated position, though did not publicize further specifics as to why. Additionally, Pruitt has worked to ensure that the EPA is cloaked in secrecy rather than being transparent and accountable to the American public. Within weeks of his arrival, the EPA’s public affairs office stopped responding to many reporters’ questions and sharing his complete schedule. EPA staff reported not being allowed to take notes in meetings or carry their cellphones, limiting the paper trail that can be requested under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). One FOIA request found that Pruitt's Superfund Task Force, chaired by his friend the FDIC-banned Albert Kelly, took no minutes of its meetings and produced just one document — a list of final recommendations. When EPA was mishandling its emergency response of Superfund sites, Pruitt’s press office proactively challenged accounts of disarray. Wasteful Use of Taxpayer Money Administrator Pruitt is under several EPA IG investigations for his wasteful use of taxpayer money. The IG is investigating Pruitt’s decision to enter the EPA into a contract for a new $43,000 secure phone booth inside his office, despite the fact that two secure facilities already exist in the same building. It is also investigating his extravagant travel habits. As has been widely reported, Pruitt spent more than $105,000 on airline travel in his first year as Administrator, including questionable trips to his home state of Oklahoma, $58,000 on chartered and military flights over the summer, $120,000 for a trip to Italy for an environmental summit, and nearly $40,000 on a trip to Morocco where he promoted natural gas exports, seemingly more relevant to his future political aspirations in gas-rich Oklahoma than the statutory responsibilities of the EPA. Pruitt has also almost exclusively flown first class when on commercial flights, along with at least some of his security detail, and often stays at expensive luxury hotels. Pruitt’s defense of these extravagant spending habits on the taxpayer’s dime was his personal security; however, when questioned about these lavish arrangements, he switched tacks saying he would fly coach from now on, calling into question the legitimacy of his “security” arguments. Additional wasteful spending issues have emerged in press reports. In 2017, Pruitt reportedly issued a $120,000 no-bid contract to a Republican opposition research firm to track journalists and EPA employees. The contract was immediately canceled after media exposure, but its initial existence raises serious questions about transparency at the EPA under Pruitt’s leadership. Pruitt has also spent excessively on ensuring secrecy at the EPA: he spent roughly $9,000 on his personal office security, including, the addition of biometric locks for his office and, at his request, a $3,000 sweep of his office to ensure it wasn’t bugged – again, in a no-bid contract. Administrator Pruitt has not, to date, justified to Congress or the public the extreme secrecy and security on which he has expended too many taxpayer dollars. Acting Counter to the Mission of the EPA The EPA’s mission is to protect human health and the environment. Administrator Pruitt has repeatedly directed the agency to act counter to that mission. Pruitt has taken efforts to weaken the agency of its scientific expertise. He has marginalized staff experts, refusing to meet with them, and actively worked to reduce the size of the agency. Some 700 employees have left the agency and another 2,000 positions may be eliminated. These moves, combined with draconian budget cuts, would shrink staffing levels to those of the Reagan administration, before Congress expanded EPA's responsibilities under the 1990 Clean Air Act and other laws. The EPA has two major independent scientific advisory boards, the Science Advisory Board and the Board of Scientific Counselors, to ensure the agency’s policies reflect the best available science. Administrator Pruitt has taken steps to remove independent scientists from the Agency’s science advisory panels and stock these panels with industry representatives and scientists financed by industry interests. Administrator Pruitt has intentionally censored or drummed up public confusion around climate science, which the EPA has stated threatens human health. He personally oversaw the scrubbing of climate change references from the EPA website and has stated that he doesn’t think humans are a “primary contributor” to global warming. Despite near-universal consensus from the global scientific community that climate change is real and caused by humans, Pruitt also attempted the creation of a “red team, blue team” debate over climate science to legitimize outlier voices. Also notable, though not surprising considering Pruitt’s hiring decisions and extensive personal security requirements, EPA enforcement has dropped precipitously during Pruitt’s tenure. According to the Environmental Integrity Project, Pruitt has slashed the number of civil cases filed against polluters by 44 percent and civil penalties have fallen by almost half, compared with averages from the Obama, Bush, and Clinton administrations. Lax enforcement of our environmental laws directly undermines EPA’s core mission of protecting public health and the environment. Equally concerning is Pruitt’s politicization of the grant-making process, assigning political aide John Konkus to review all EPA grants. Traditionally, scientific experts – not political appointees – review EPA grants awards. Konkus has no scientific background or expertise, ensuring that grants will be judged by political criteria rather than on their scientific and technical merits. Konkus’ impartiality is called into question because, in addition to signing off on EPA grants, he is consulting for private clients part-time. Similarly, the regulatory mission of the EPA is in danger. Pruitt has moved to rollback or review nearly 50 existing regulations protecting the air, water, and climate, many of which would help prevented tens of thousands of premature deaths and saved billions of dollars in public health benefits. A snapshot of the regulations is as follows: • Pruitt initiated the repeal of the Clean Power Plan, which would limit carbon pollution, and also reduce emissions of other harmful pollutants from power plants that can adversely affect public health. • Pruitt rescinded the Clean Water Rule, critical for safeguarding the drinking water of more than 117 million Americans. • Pruitt withdrew a 1995 Clean Air Act guidance that protects people against cancer-causing air pollutants. This change will increase hazardous air pollution from major industrial polluters on nearly 200 pollutants, including arsenic, lead, and mercury. • Pruitt has failed to enforce a rule that strengthened limits on ozone pollution, which causes smog. • Pruitt recently moved to roll back federal fuel efficiency standards for cars and light trucks, which will lead to more harmful air pollution and less efficient vehicles, forcing consumers to pay more at the pump. • The EPA has delayed, and is expected to propose to weaken, limits on chemicals like arsenic, lead, and mercury that power plants dump into waterways. • Pruitt withdrew a proposed ban on, chlorpyrifos, a commonly used pesticide that can damage the nervous system, despite the EPA's own scientists arguing risks to human health. • Pruitt granted an industry request to reconsider the coal ash rule, which set national standards for the disposal of toxic coal residue, and has proposed to weaken those standards. • The EPA plans to revise an Obama-era rule that prevents farmworkers younger than 18 from applying dangerous pesticides, threatening the health of children. For these reasons, we ask that you fire Scott Pruitt from the Environmental Protection Agency immediately. A man under numerous investigations both for ethical concerns and wasteful spending, who has actively moved to undermine environmental rules and regulations at industry request, is antithetical to the job of EPA Administrator. Mr. Pruitt needs to go. Sincerely,
04.05.2018	The cloud of scandal surrounding EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt continued to thicken in the week following the initial report that he got a special deal on his condo rent from an energy lobbyist, which apparently included free rent for his family. In response, calls from Members of Congress for Pruitt to resign are now bipartisan. Meanwhile a number of questions about Pruitt’s conduct in the matter remain unanswered: 1) If Scott Pruitt’s special rent deal with energy lobbyist Steven Hart was above board, why has Pruitt been so secretive about it? He didn’t tell the EPA, the White House is investigating him for it after the fact, and he has been slow to justify his behavior to the public and to Congress. 2) Pruitt reportedly did not inform the EPA ethics officials of his rent arrangement with an energy lobbyist until after the fact, which led to their issuing a rushed statement supporting that arrangement before they learned that it had included free rent for his family. That statement has since been walked back. Did any political appointees pressure EPA ethics officials to back up Pruitt’s actions? 3) Campaign fundraisers were held at the condo while Pruitt stayed there. Was he present at any of them? Did he discuss EPA business? 4) Why were members of Pruitt’s security detail so frantic to reach him that they broke a door down? Why was he “unresponsive?” How did the EPA justify the significant expense of repairing the door, and will Pruitt reimburse taxpayers for it? 5) The EPA approved a request to expand a pipeline by Enbridge, a client of Hart’s lobbying firm, while Pruitt was living in Hart’s condo. What other such connections exist between clients of that firm and EPA regulatory actions during or after Pruitt’s residence there? 6) Did Pruitt’s mysterious and expensive trip to Morocco to pitch liquid natural gas exports – activity well outside the scope of the EPA’s mission – relate in any way to lobbying by Hart’s firm for its client, Cheniere Energy? 7) Pruitt did a media tour yesterday in which he repeatedly claimed that all of his actions were above board. Does Pruitt really not see any ethical issues with getting a special rent deal from an energy lobbyist who hosted a fundraiser for his campaign to become Oklahoma’s Attorney General? 8) In a FoxNews interview with Ed Henry Wednesday (described as “brutal” and “a trainwreck”) Pruitt said he was unaware of raises secured for his aides using an obscure legislative loophole in the Safe Drinking Water Act to bypass a White House rejection… but we know Pruitt used the loophole to hire staff and avoid Trump’s ethics pledge. Will Pruitt allow Congress, press, and the public to see internal correspondence which led to those raises, and hold any subordinates responsible for overruling the White House accountable? 9) One of those aides, whom Pruitt brought with him from Oklahoma, helped run his search for new housing. Did she conduct any part of that search on official, taxpayer-subsidized time? 10) Why does Scott Pruitt still have a job with the Trump Administration? These are just some of the many questions raised by Pruitt’s secret housing arrangement. The public deserves answers, and Congress should seek them if they are not provided by Pruitt or the Trump Administration.
04.04.2018	Today, Reps. Salud Carbajal (CA-24) and Don Beyer (VA-08) announced that 100 bipartisan co-sponsors now officially support passing H.R. 2598, the Gun Violence Restraining Order (GVRO) Act. The bill, introduced last May, would allow family members or law enforcement officials to petition a judge to temporarily remove firearms from an individual in crisis. “The momentum behind passing gun violence prevention laws in the wake of the tragic Parkland shooting is not slowing down, and that is clearly reflected in this week’s milestone of support for the GVRO Act,” said Rep. Carbajal. “This bill encourages other states to follow California’s lead and enact similar firearm restraining orders that can prevent future tragedies like the shootings in Parkland or in Isla Vista. With this level of bipartisan support, it is clear the GVRO Act would easily pass the House. Americans are demanding that Congress take action to prevent gun violence and I urge Speaker Ryan to put this bill up for a vote.” “More and more Members of Congress in both parties and both chambers are recognizing the lifesaving power of gun violence restraining orders,” said Rep. Beyer. “Two years ago I was one of just 8 cosponsors of this legislation to prevent gun violence. Now the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act has reached 100 cosponsors, and fittingly the last two were a Republican and a Democrat. Congressman Carbajal and I will continue seeking bipartisan support for this bill, and urge Speaker Ryan to give it floor consideration.” Republican co-sponsors include Representatives Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Mast, (FL-18), Bacon (NE-02), Lance (NJ-07), Upton (MI-06), and Roskam (IL-06). Democratic co-sponsors include Representatives DeSaulnier (CA-11), Brown (MD-04), Kelly (IL-02), Thompson (CA-05), Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Raskin (MD-08), Holmes Norton (DC), Grijalva (AZ-03), Blumenauer (OR-03), Evans (PA-02), Davis (CA-53), Suozzi (NY-03), Khanna (CA-17), Cicilline (RI-01), Scott (VA-03), Perlmutter (CO-07), Gomez (CA-34), Demings (FL-10), Speier (CA-14), Swalwell (CA-15), Gallego (AZ-07), Nolan (MN-08), Price (NC-04), Huffman (CA-02), Panetta (CA-20), Lofgren (CA-19), Jackson Lee (TX-18), Napolitano (CA-32), Lowey (NY-17), DeLauro (CT-03), Johnson (TX-30), Rice (NY-04), Esty (CT-05), Blunt Rochester (DE), Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Hastings (FL-20), Engel (NY-16), Nadler (NY-10), Lowenthal (CA-47), Torres (CA-35), Matsui (CA-06), Barragan (CA-44), Costa (CA-16), Chu (CA-27), Schiff (CA-28), Vargas (CA-51), Aguilar (CA-31), Garamendi (CA-03), Brownley (CA-26), Cohen (TN-09), Schakowsky (IL-09), Wilson (FL-24), Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Capuano (MA-07), Maloney (NY-12), Johnson (GA-04), Espaillat (NY-13), Brady (PA-01), Higgins (NY-26), Sires (NJ-08), Foster (IL-11), Cummings (MD-07), Crist (FL-13), Peters (CA-52), McCollum (MN-04), Bass (CA-37), Quigley (IL-05), Connolly (VA-11), Pingree (ME-01), DeFazio (OR-04), Bera (CA-07), Pallone (NJ-06), Courtney (CT-02), Deutch (FL-22), Takano (CA-41), Schneider (IL-10), Clark (MA-05), Jayapal (WA-07), Ryan (OH-13), McGovern (MA-02), Tsongas (MA-03), Kihuen (NV-04), Delaney (MD-06), Keating (MA-09), Soto (FL-09), Moulton (MA-06), Lieu (CA-33), Bonamici (OR-01), O’Halleran (AZ-01), Kennedy (MA-04), Tonko (NY-20) and Castor (FL-14). Background: The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act would incentivize states to enable family members or law enforcement officials to go to a court to seek a “gun violence prevention order,” to temporarily stop someone who poses a threat to themselves or others from purchasing or possessing a gun. The bill will also ensure that a court can issue a “gun violence prevention warrant,” allowing law enforcement to take temporary possession of firearms that are in an individual’s possession if the court determines that the individual poses a threat to themselves or others. Furthermore, it would ensure that law enforcement makes full use of all existing state and local gun databases when assessing a tip, warning, or request from a concerned family member or other close associate. U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein introduced the companion legislation S. 1212 in the Senate. Read the full bill text here.
04.04.2018	Last night, Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight, Congressman Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA) sent a third formal request letter to Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) asking that he hold a hearing on election security issues. This third letter follows the recent news that British-based Cambridge Analytica acquired the private data of 50 million Facebook users for political purposes. Cambridge Analytica is a commercial consulting company who claimed that it was decisive in Donald Trump’s victory in the 2016 Presidential Election. This is the fifth time in six months that Ms. Johnson and Mr. Beyer have requested that the Chairman fulfill his oversight obligation to review the security of the U.S. election infrastructure. Two similar formal written requests were sent to Chairman Smith in January and March, following oral requests made by Ranking Member Johnson and Ranking Member Beyer last year at two cybersecurity focused hearings in October and November. In yesterday’s letter, they wrote: “Protecting personally identifiable information in the digital age is an immense task and a tremendous burden on both government agencies and commercial enterprises. Nevertheless, the U.S. Congress must hold both government agencies and commercial entities accountable when the public trust is breached. The Science Committee should take a leading role in investigating these sorts of cases whether the intended use of the data is for financial, political or other purposes.” “We believe that the troubling information about the alleged inappropriate use of private data from 50 million Facebook users by Cambridge Analytica necessitates a vigorous inquiry. We stand ready, once again, to work with you in a constructive and nonpartisan way to fulfill the Committee’s oversight obligation regarding this critical issue.” To see the full text of the letter, click here.
04.04.2018	50 years after we lost Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. we remember his grace, compassion, and capacity to inspire change. As the struggle for which Dr. King gave his life continues, so also his message of justice and love continues to light the way towards a better, more equal day.
04.04.2018	Today, U.S. Senators Tom Udall (D-N.M.) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) and Representatives Don Beyer (D-Va.) and Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) wrote a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt asking him to personally answer several questions that have been raised about how he secured a special arrangement to rent a room in a Capitol Hill townhouse in 2017. According to ABC and other news reports, the apartment is owned by the wife of Williams & Jensen lobbyist J. Steven Hart, who works on issues the EPA regulates, including energy and transportation. It was made available to Pruitt for $50 a night whenever he needed it. Pruitt’s daughter also used the room during her internship at the White House last year. The unusually favorable terms of the arrangement offered by the wife of a lobbyist with a direct financial interest in decisions that Pruitt and the EPA make have raised many questions about conflicts of interest, inappropriate favoritism, and partisan or political influence, the lawmakers wrote to Pruitt. As a result, they want Pruitt himself to answer 15 detailed questions about how he arranged the rental, including how he learned about it, what his prior relationship was with Hart and his wife Vicki, and whether he ever discussed EPA business with the Harts or other affiliates with Hart’s firm. The lawmakers also want Pruitt to provide the rental agreement and any communication between him, the Harts, and Williams & Jensen. “The American public must be able to trust that you are carrying out your duties in a manner that avoids any financial conflicts of interest, inappropriate favoritism or partisan political influence,” the lawmakers wrote to Pruitt, reminding him that he is bound by the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch (5 C.F.R. 2635). “We believe it is imperative that you answer questions fully and transparently regarding the circumstances of your rental agreement and its approval.” A copy of the letter is available HERE and below, along with the questions the lawmakers are asking Pruitt to answer: April 4, 2018 The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S Environmental Protection Agency William Jefferson Clinton Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W. Mail Code: 1101A Washington, DC 20460 Dear Mr. Administrator: As you are aware, all EPA employees, including the Administrator, must abide by the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch (5 C.F.R. 2635), as well as other Federal conflict of interest statutes. The American public must be able to trust that you are carrying out your duties in a manner that avoids any financial conflicts of interest, inappropriate favoritism or partisan political influence. Given these obligations, we are very concerned by recent reports that you and at least one other member of your family were afforded a room in a prime Capitol Hill location for what appears to be unusually favorable terms by a landlord with personal connections to you and to an industry regulated by the agency that you lead. We are also troubled by the circumstances surrounding the agency’s ethics review process, which led EPA to issue a retroactive approval of the rental agreement more than a year after the fact—and only after media reports disclosed the highly unusual nature of the arrangement. We believe it is imperative that you answer questions fully and transparently regarding the circumstances of your rental agreement and its approval. Therefore, we request that you provide a response to the attached list of questions and requests for documentation by no later than April 17, 2018. Sincerely, Request for Information: How did you learn about the availability of the property you rented at 223 C Street, Northeast (“rental property”)? Does this property advertise rooms for rent to the general public? What were the specific dates of the rental agreement, and what is the total amount you paid the landlord for the use of the rental property during that time? Were any employees of the Office of the Administrator or other EPA employees involved in locating the property, or otherwise negotiating, facilitating, or executing any portion of your rental agreement? Did any EPA employees communicate with the landlord or other owners or representatives of owners of the property on your behalf? What is your relationship with the landlord or other owners of the rental property? Please describe any interactions you had with Ms. Vicki Hart, Mr. Steven Hart, or any other owner or representative of an owner of the property prior to the date on which you entered into the rental agreement. Was the room rented to you available for your exclusive use for the duration of your lease agreement, despite reports that you only paid for nights when you actually used the property? Was the room rented to other people when you were not using the rental property? It has been reported that your daughter also lived at the rental property for some duration of your rental agreement. How did you secure the arrangement for your daughter to stay at the rental property? Did the arrangement to use the rental property extend to any other family members? If so, which members of your family? Did you have other family or guests stay at the rental property who were not a part of your rental agreement? Did you set a schedule ahead of time for your usage of the rental property? Did you pay any utilities, cleaning, or other fees? Did you receive mail or other packages delivered to the property? Did you attend any fundraisers or other political functions that occurred at the rental property during your stay? If so, on how many occasions and by whose invitation? Did you discuss any EPA official business with the landlord, their affiliates, or other visitors at the rental property? If so, what topics were discussed, and with whom? Did you agree to undertake any official actions that benefited the landlord, their affiliates, or other visitors you met at the rental property? If so, what actions were taken, and on whose behalf? Did you ever discuss your trip to Morocco to promote liquefied natural gas with the landlord, their affiliates, or visitors you met at the rental property? If so, what topics were discussed, and with whom? Who requested review of the rental agreement by EPA’s designated agency ethics officer or related ethics staff, and on what date was that request made? Please describe any review—formal or informal—of the rental agreement that occurred by EPA staff between January 20, 2017, and the release of the agency’s March 30, 2018, memorandum titled “Review of Lease Agreement Under the Federal Ethics Regulations Regarding Gifts”. The agency’s March 30, 2018, memorandum appears to address only the narrow question of whether the rental agreement in question constitutes a gift under Federal ethics regulations. Did agency ethics officials determine whether the agreement was fully in compliance with the entire Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch and other applicable Federal ethics statutes or standards of conduct? How did the agency determine that the fair market value described by the rental agreement was “reasonable” as cited by the March 30, 2018 memorandum? Please provide the analysis used to reach that conclusion, including comparable rental agreement costs used in making that determination. Were any employees of the Office of the Administrator or other EPA employees involved in making subsequent housing arrangements for any other property other than the rental property in question for you or your family? Request for Documentation: Please provide copies of any of the following documents that may have been developed since December 7, 2016, when President Trump announced his intention to nominate you as EPA Administrator: A copy of the rental agreement for the rental property; Any communications between yourself and Ms. Vicki Hart, any other owner of the residence, or anyone representing the owners; Any communications between yourself and Mr. Steven Hart, any person employed by Williams & Jensen, and any calendar entries or notes relating to any meetings or conversations between yourself and Mr. Hart or any other person employed by Williams & Jensen; Any communications between anyone working in the Administrator’s office and Mr. Hart, any other person employed by Williams & Jensen, and any calendar entries or notes relating to any meetings or conversations between anyone working in the Administrator's office and Mr. Hart or any other person employed by Williams & Jensen; and Any communications between yourself or anyone working in the Administrator's office and any other official or employee of EPA regarding Mr. Hart, any other person employed by Williams & Jensen, or any client of Williams & Jensen.
04.03.2018	Today Reps. Ted Lieu (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA) wrote to the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of the Inspector General (OIG) seeking an immediate investigation into EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s questionable lease arrangement with an energy lobbyist. The Representatives wrote: “We are writing to request you investigate allegations that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt received a below market rate condominium lease from Vicki and Steven Hart, both of whom are lobbyists. Mr. Hart, who is Chairman of the firm Williams & Jensen, also lobbies on issues over which the EPA has jurisdiction. We also request you investigate possible misconduct surrounding a recent EPA Office of General Counsel after-the-fact ethics justification of the below-market lease that was facially misleading. … the Office of the General Counsel’s memorandum explicitly states, ‘The lease authorized use by the Administrator and his immediate family, specifically including his spouse and children, and consistent with that provision of the lease his immediate family did stay there when they were in Washington, DC.’ This directly contradicts statements made by Vicki Hart, co-owner of the condo, who told ABC News, ‘The rental agreement was with Scott Pruitt… if other people were using the bedroom or the living quarters, I was never told, and I never gave him permission to do that.’ The OGC decision and Hart’s statements cannot simultaneously be true.” The Representatives also sought an investigation of the justification of that lease first published by the EPA’s General Counsel this week, over a year after the lease was entered into, and into the expenses incurred by taxpayers when Pruitt’s security detail destroyed a door after reporting that he was unresponsive. Full text of the letter follows below, and a signed copy is available here. Representative Beyer is the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member of its Subcommittee on Oversight. He serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus. Mr. Arthur A. Elkins, Jr. Inspector General Environmental Protection Agency Washington, D.C., 20004 Dear Inspector General Elkins: Thank you for your service. We are writing to request you investigate allegations that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt received a below market rate condominium lease from Vicki and Steven Hart, both of whom are lobbyists. Mr. Hart, who is Chairman of the firm Williams & Jensen, also lobbies on issues over which the EPA has jurisdiction. We also request you investigate possible misconduct surrounding a recent EPA Office of General Counsel after-the-fact ethics justification of the below-market lease that was facially misleading. We believe this Ethics Office opinion merits additional, and independent, review. Specifically, we want to know if Mr. Kevin Minoli – EPA Principal Deputy General Counsel – intentionally wrote a statement that he knew was misleading and whether he was pressured by Administrator Pruitt or anyone else to do so. Administrator Pruitt received a six-month, short-term lease for a condominium approximately one block away from the Capitol from lobbyists Steven and Vicki Hart. The unusual short-term lease allowed Administrator Pruitt access on demand to the furnished condo, but he only had to pay on the days that he used the condo at the rate of just $50 a day. The lease also allowed his daughter to stay at the condo, apparently in a second bedroom. Had Administrator Pruitt stayed every day at the condo, he would have paid $1,500 per month. That is far less than comparable market rents for condominiums within walking distance of the Capitol. ABC reports a comparable lease went for as high as $5,000 a month. A cursory search on Zillow.com shows comparable leases range from $2,600 to over $5,000 in the same general area. But Administrator Pruitt didn't pay $1,500 a month. He paid far less because the unusual lease allowed him to have the condo on demand but he only had to pay for the days he stayed at the condo. Over a period of six months, Administrator Pruitt paid only a total of $6,100 for the furnished condo. This is far below market value and, as such, would constitute an impermissible gift under federal regulations. If the below market lease was given to Administrator Pruitt with the intent to curry favor with him on an issue important to lobbyists Mr. and Mrs. Hart, then it could also be a violation of 18 U.S.C. Section 201. In fact, according to recent reports, the EPA approved the pipeline expansion plan of a Canadian energy company who employed Mr. Hart as a lobbyist at the same time Mr. Pruitt was leasing his condo at a below-market rate. As previously mentioned, EPA official Kevin Minoli wrote a retroactive ethics opinion on March 30, 2018, that $1,500 a month was a reasonable rate. That is false. To determine what would be fair market value, one needs to look at "comparable leases." According to reports, Mr. Pruitt was the only lessee in the three-story, multiple-bedroom condo unit. As set forth above, comparable leases range from $2,600 to over $5,000 per month for a furnished condo within walking distance of the Capitol. In addition, all the comparable leases require the tenant to pay for the entire month regardless of how many days the tenant happens to stay at the condo, and are 12 month leases. Administrator Pruitt did not pay $1,500 per month for 12 months; he paid far less, even though the condo was required to be open to him at any time. The unusual, short-term sweetheart deal that Administrator Pruitt received from Mr. and Mrs. Hart was not just far below market rate, the terms were so skewed in Pruitt's favor that such a lease doesn't even exist on the market for an ordinary citizen. Additionally, the Office of the General Counsel’s memorandum explicitly states, “The lease authorized use by the Administrator and his immediate family, specifically including his spouse and children, and consistent with that provision of the lease his immediate family did stay there when they were in Washington, DC.” This directly contradicts statements made by Vicki Hart, co-owner of the condo, who told ABC News, “The rental agreement was with Scott Pruitt… if other people were using the bedroom or the living quarters, I was never told, and I never gave him permission to do that.” The OGC decision and Hart’s statements cannot simultaneously be true. This discrepancy is further evidence of the need for the EPA Inspector General to conduct an investigation to determine if misconduct or mismanagement led to said OGC decision, and whether the Ethics Office was influenced in any improper manner. Lastly, on March 29, 2017, officials broke down the door of the condo thinking Administrator Pruitt was unresponsive when in fact he was just taking a nap. Taxpayers ended up paying $2,460 to the condo association to fix the door. As part of any Inspector General investigation, we request the Inspector consider possible waste or fraud associated with the decision to lay this cost at the taxpayer’s feet, rather than charge Administrator Pruitt personally. Thank you for your attention to these matters. Sincerely,
04.03.2018	Today, Congressional Safe Climate Caucus co-chairs Reps. Alan Lowenthal and Don Beyer released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency announced its decision to roll back the clean car standards: “By rolling back these clean car standards, President Trump and Scott Pruitt have again proved that they will prioritize deregulation over all else. Not all in the auto industry wanted weaker clean car regulation and the American taxpayer will see the financial pain at the pump. “Transportation is now the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. These clean car standards require more fuel efficient vehicles, meaning less gas to travel the same distance and by burning less fuel, fewer greenhouse gas emissions are emitted. “These clean car standards were calculated to save American consumers about $50 billion in 2030, reduce global warming emissions by 280 million metric tons by the same year, and help create an estimated 650,000 jobs nationwide. This decision will stifle innovation within the auto industry, harm the health of the American people, and take us back years in the fight against climate change. “We should be striving to make all forms of transportation cleaner and more efficient – which is better for the pocketbooks of Americans and the health of the planet. Instead, the Trump Administration has yet again chosen to willfully ignore the growing threat of climate change.”
04.03.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency announced that it would roll back the clean car standards as scandals continued to pile up around Administrator Scott Pruitt: “Scott Pruitt’s decision to weaken our clean car standards will hurt Americans’ health, economy, and environment, but it may well help the bottom lines of the special interests for whom Pruitt really works. “What benefit does this decision give to the clients of the lobbyist whose firm represented so many interested parties while he secretly gave Scott Pruitt a special deal on condo rent? What correspondence did Pruitt or his political appointees have with that lobbying firm or the companies they represent before issuing this decision? We need answers to these questions and many others to fully understand why Pruitt and Trump again acted to weaken the US fight against climate change. “For too long, Scott Pruitt has operated under a veil of secrecy, systematically undermining environmental regulations to benefit a select few. The cloud of corruption and scandal surrounding him is thickening, and the American people deserve the truth.”
03.30.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement calling for the resignation of Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt: “From the first Scott Pruitt has conducted himself terribly, without regard for environmental protection or public safety. He has given free rein to lobbyists and industry insiders to sabotage the EPA’s mission. He has endeavored to corrupt the Environmental Protection Agency to place polluters’ profits above Americans’ health and the fate of the planet. The latest outrage is the news that Scott Pruitt secretly worked out a special deal on condo rent with an industry lobbyist who represents companies regulated by the EPA. He apparently did not report the details of his arrangement to ethics counsel at the EPA beforehand, nor to the public. As he has done over and over again, he showed contempt for transparency, ethical guidelines, and the public interest. Pruitt must resign. If he refuses to do so he should be fired immediately.” Representative Beyer is the Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Ranking Member on its Subcommittee on Oversight. He serves as co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus.
03.26.2018	Today, Rep. Don Beyer sent a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray requesting a meeting, and asking that the FBI grant permission to local entities to publicly disclose the 9-1-1 call recordings that are affiliated with the Bijan Ghaisar case. In addition, Rep. Beyer pushed for an expedited response to his unanswered January 30, 2018 letter. Rep. Beyer wrote: “I want to meet because I am deeply concerned about lack of timeliness of the FBI’s civil rights investigation into the shooting death by U.S. Park Police of 25-year-old Bijan Ghaisar last November. “I also urge the FBI to give permission to local entities to release the 9-1-1 recordings related to the case. The Northern Virginia public demands high transparency and accountability standards from its local government and law enforcement entities. Failure to be responsive and transparent undermines public trust. We ask that you allow the local entities to publically release the 9-1-1 records affiliated with the Ghaisar case.” The full text of the letter appears below and the signed copy is here. The Honorable Christopher A. Wray Federal Bureau of Investigation U.S. Department of Justice 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Room 7240 Washington, DC 20535-0001 Dear Director Wray: I am writing to both request a meeting and also ask that the FBI give permission to local entities to publically disclose the 9-1-1 phone call recordings with the public that are affiliated with the Bijan Ghaisar case. Additionally, I have yet to have questions answered from the January 30, 2018 letter and request an expedited response. I want to meet because I am deeply concerned about lack of timeliness of the FBI’s civil rights investigation into the shooting death by U.S. Park Police of 25-year-old Bijan Ghaisar last November. While I appreciate the candor and constancy of phone calls to date with the FBI, I want to speak face-to-face given the legitimate and heightened concern from the local community. In particular, I am requesting a timeline for the investigation’s probable conclusion. My understanding is that the FBI is assessing only whether Bijan Ghaisar’s civil rights were violated. Until the FBI civil rights investigation is closed, we cannot have wholesale review of Park Police actions and engagement – from how they received emergency information to when the case was turned over to the FBI. That type of review is imperative. I also urge the FBI to give permission to local entities to release the 9-1-1 recordings related to the case. The Northern Virginia public demands high transparency and accountability standards from its local government and law enforcement entities. Failure to be responsive and transparent undermines public trust. We ask that you allow the local entities to publically release the 9-1-1 records affiliated with the Ghaisar case. I look forward to hearing from you.
03.23.2018	Rep. Don Beyer released the following statement after President Donald Trump appointed John Bolton to be his third National Security Advisor, amassing one of the most aggressive and hard-line national security teams in modern political history: “Even for this Administration, the appointment of John Bolton is a monumental step backward. President Trump desperately needs tempered and measured voices around him; Bolton is neither of those things. His appointment carries grave national security implications, and sends the worst kind of message to our allies. “Bolton is a discredited actor in the foreign policy community, and helped lead us into the Iraq war. His views on North Korea and Iran could lead us down a similar path. He was ousted from the George W. Bush Administration for being an extremist, and is the opposite kind of voice this White House needs. We are inherently less safe as a result of this decision.”
03.19.2018	Today, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) led a bipartisan letter (11 Republicans, 73 Democrats) to the House Appropriations Committee calling for strong funding for the Department of Energy’s clean energy innovation programs: Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) program; Energy Innovation Hubs; and Energy Frontier Research Centers (EFRCs). The bipartisan letter comes after the Trump Administration FY19 budget proposal again places these programs at risk. Specifically, the Administration proposed zeroing out the ARPA-E program. ARPA-E incentivizes researchers to pursue promising “high-risk, high-reward” energy research into game-changing technologies that can meet our future energy needs. ARPA-E possesses both bipartisan support in Congress and the support of Department of Energy Secretary Rick Perry, despite delayed funding to ARPA-E allocated projects. The Washington Post reported today: “Energy Secretary Rick Perry last week called out a little-known energy technology incubator as one of the reasons the department ‘has had and is having such a profound impact on American lives.’” The lawmakers wrote: “As Members with a strong interest in ensuring our nation’s future energy security, we thank the subcommittee for continuing to fund several key Department of Energy (DOE) research and innovation programs and request that these programs are given high priority as you consider the Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. We are specifically writing to support three complementary approaches to tackling the critical energy innovation challenges before us: the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) program, Energy Innovation Hubs, and Energy Frontier Research Centers (EFRCs). “America’s innovation history is built on a foundation of robust federal investment in fundamental scientific research. At the same time, the public sector has a deep history of working hand-in-hand with the private sector to bring the fruits of this research to market, address market failures, provide needed expertise, and raise capital for high-payoff, though riskier, projects in which industry would not otherwise invest. Without such partnerships, the stories of the transcontinental railroad, the aviation sector, and biotechnology industries would be dramatically different. As in these past projects, the government has a critical role to play in helping to support and foster the new ideas that will serve as the foundation for the nation’s future energy economy.” A signed copy of the letter can be found here.
03.16.2018	Rep. Don Beyer yesterday sent a letter to the Department of Defense (DOD) expressing his dissatisfaction with the DOD’s recently-issued report on the effects of military helicopter noise in the National Capital Region. The DOD report (Summary; Full: Part I, Part II) was developed in response to Beyer’s 2016 amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act, and submitted nearly a year after its required due date. Beyer wrote: “Unfortunately, this Report failed to give anything resembling a robust study of the issue, nor does it offer any new or thoughtful recommendations for noise reduction. “Throughout this process, I have appreciated an ongoing dialogue with Major General Howard, Commanding General of the Military District of Washington, and appreciate his responsiveness and dedication to reducing helicopter noise in the National Capital Region (NCR). “The Report, however, was delivered to Congress nearly an entire year past its deadline, and failed to study the effects of helicopter noise as directed by Congress.” A signed copy of Beyer’s letter is available here.
03.16.2018	“Congresswoman Louise Slaughter was a tireless champion for Democratic values and western New Yorkers for over 30 years. As the first woman to be elected to Congress from western New York and only microbiologist in the legislative branch, Congresswoman Slaughter was truly a trailblazer. I am proud to have called Congresswoman Slaughter my friend, and I am proud to have served in the United States Congress with such a committed and devoted advocate. Her leadership, expertise, and strength will be deeply missed. “Congresswoman Slaughter, her family, and her loved ones will be in our hearts during this difficult time.”
03.16.2018	Today, Reps. Don Beyer, Debbie Dingell, and Raúl M. Grijalva led a group of 104 Members of Congress in a letter to the House Appropriations Committee calling for robust funding for Endangered Species Act listing, planning and consultation, species conservation and restoration, and recovery process. They cited the need for increased funding due to the nearly 400 listed species that currently lack recovery plans. The lawmakers wrote: “As you begin to consider fiscal year 2019 Interior and Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations, we urge you to support robust funding for Endangered Species Act (ESA) listing, planning and consultation, species conservation and restoration, and recovery process. “The need for increased recovery funding is evident from the nearly 400 U.S. listed species that lack recovery plans. Congressional appropriations for both recovery and consultation, already insufficient, have not kept pace with the number of listed species. Inadequate funding not only puts at risk the recovery of threatened and endangered species and conservation of their habitats; it also impedes FWS and NMFS’s ability to apply the best scientific knowledge available in a timely review of listing decisions for species in need of protection. “We request robust funding for ESA listing, planning and consultation, species conservation and restoration, and recovery in FY 2019. This is critical to recover and conserve our Nation's imperiled species and ultimately protect America’s natural heritage.” The full text of and a signed copy of the letter is available here.
03.14.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today led a group of 25 House Democrats warning White House Chief of Staff John Kelly about the growing threat to national security presented by Senior Adviser Jarod Kushner’s continued presence in the White House. The Members cited a series of reports raising red flags about Kushner’s security clearance issues and conflicts of interest, and called upon Kelly to fire Kushner immediately. The Members wrote: “In the wake of the scandal surrounding former White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter, little confidence remains about information security among White House staff... The Washington Post reported last week that Mr. Kushner is seen as a potential asset by foreign countries, including the United Arab Emirates, China, Mexico, and Israel. … “A January report in the New Yorker identified Kushner as the focus of a concerted influence operation by Chinese officials. The same story noted that Kushner discussed his own business interests and the foreign policy of the United States with respect to China in the same meeting with a Chinese official. … “The New York Times reported that Kushner’s real estate business received large loans from Citigroup and Apollo Global Management after Kushner met with representatives of those companies at the White House. That story states that Kushner discussed securing a position in the Administration for one of Apollo’s founders months before Kushner Companies received an unusually large loan of $184 million from Apollo. Such interactions give the distinct impression that corruption is occurring at the White House, in plain sight and without consequence. … “It is impossible for the American people or their elected Representatives to have faith that Jared Kushner will put their interests above his own personal and financial interests… The only path forward is clear: Jared Kushner must resign immediately. If he will not, we believe it is your duty as White House Chief of Staff to fire him.” The full text of the letter follows below, and a signed copy is available here. Rep. Beyer was the first Member of Congress to call for the suspension of Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner’s security clearance, following the revelation of myriad omissions on Kushner’s SF-86. Beyer later led 50+ Democrats seeking revocation of Kushner’s clearance, and also raised issues with the clearances of Ivanka Trump and Stephen Miller. *** John Kelly Chief of Staff The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC, 20500 Dear Chief of Staff Kelly, We write to raise urgent concerns about national security related to Senior Adviser Jared Kushner’s continued access to classified information and presence in the White House. In the wake of the scandal surrounding former White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter, little confidence remains about information security among White House staff. We believe Mr. Kushner should resign or be fired. The Washington Post reported last week that Mr. Kushner is seen as a potential asset by foreign countries, including the United Arab Emirates, China, Mexico, and Israel[1]. That story cited current and former US officials as the source of an extraordinary allegation against a senior White House adviser: “Officials in at least four countries have privately discussed ways they can manipulate Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, by taking advantage of his complex business arrangements, financial difficulties and lack of foreign policy experience…” The same story went on to note that Kushner has had contacts with foreign officials of which the US national security establishment was unaware, at times without any other American officials present. We cannot overstate how concerning this is for someone simultaneously tasked with conducting US foreign policy and possessing myriad financial arrangements with foreign businesses. A January report in the New Yorker identified Kushner as the focus of a concerted influence operation by Chinese officials[2]. The same story noted that Kushner discussed his own business interests and the foreign policy of the United States with respect to China in the same meeting with a Chinese official. These reports follow Kushner’s previous failures to faithfully and honestly declare his contacts, personal and professional, with agents of foreign governments. His omissions of meetings during the transition led to multiple required updates to his Standard Form 86 to declare different relationships and encounters with foreign officials[3], including one at which he was said to have discussed the creation of a secret backchannel to communicate with the Russian government[4]. Kushner’s ethical and financial disclosures are similarly fraught. Even as he oversees aspects of US trade relations and receives the President’s Daily Brief[5], Kushner retains direct control of a business empire possibly worth hundreds of millions of dollars[6]. He has been repeatedly fined for his failure to punctually file the ethics disclosures that disclose his business holdings[7]. He holds debts which run into the tens of millions of dollars[8], debts which he held while his business sought money from investors in Qatar[9] and China[10]. As you know, Kushner’s portfolio includes the Middle East and China. Jared Kushner’s domestic conflicts of interest are equally concerning. The New York Times reported that Kushner’s real estate business received large loans from Citigroup and Apollo Global Management after Kushner met with representatives of those companies at the White House[11]. That story states that Kushner discussed securing a position in the Administration for one of Apollo’s founders months before Kushner Companies received an unusually large loan of $184 million from Apollo. Such interactions give the distinct impression that corruption is occurring at the White House, in plain sight and without consequence. We appreciate that you recently revoked Kushner’s access to top-secret intelligence, but this is not enough[12]. We do not see adequate safeguards to prevent him from continuing to consume such intelligence, and we feel that he does not merit access to any classified material. Furthermore, we believe that the inability to safely view US intelligence products renders him unfit to successfully fulfill the responsibilities delegated to him by President Trump. It is grossly irresponsible to continue allowing Jared Kushner such direct influence over American foreign policy, given the many red flags. The possible leverage created by his debts, his failure to give accurate and punctual accounts of his foreign contacts and business holdings, and his inability after over a year to gain a permanent security clearance[13] would raise inescapable warning signs about the most junior staff, to say nothing of one of the closest people to the President. It is impossible for the American people or their elected Representatives to have faith that Jared Kushner will put their interests above his own personal and financial interests. We have not forgotten your recent failure to take decisive action in a timely fashion with regard to Rob Porter. We hope that you will not make the same mistake again. The only path forward is clear: Jared Kushner must resign immediately. If he will not, we believe it is your duty as White House Chief of Staff to fire him. Sincerely,
03.13.2018	“As President Trump’s first Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson was handed a difficult job which he performed poorly. He presided over an unprecedented evisceration of the State Department, often seemed out of the loop, and was, at best, incidental to the formulation of U.S. foreign policy. The damage caused by Tillerson’s brief, tumultuous tenure will take years to repair, and he will be remembered as another example of President Trump’s poor judgment. “It is my hope that the next Secretary of State will make it their first priority to restore confidence, morale, and a sense of mission at the State Department. The selfless, competent, and dedicated Foreign Service Officers and civil servants at the Department deserve nothing less. “Despite Secretary Tillerson’s manifest unfitness for the office he held, I am concerned by the method and timing of his termination, which may have resulted from crossing Trump by holding Russia accountable for attacks on western democracies. President Trump’s decision to fire his Secretary of State via tweet also does not inspire confidence, coming as it does while the White House is still reeling from the departures of his top economic advisor and Communications Director, and from security clearance concerns raised by the Rob Porter debacle. “The instability which Trump has created in the upper echelons of his Administration is dangerous and jeopardizes major diplomatic and security priorities. I am particularly concerned about the fate of the Iran Nuclear Deal, which President Trump cited as a factor in his decision to fire Tillerson. Ending the deal with Iran could lead to that country’s resumption of its nuclear program, and might also threaten the viability of diplomatic negotiations with North Korea. The President must not go down this road.” Rep. Beyer served for four years in the State Department under President Barack Obama as the Ambassador to Switzerland and Lichtenstein. Switzerland is the protecting power for diplomatic relations between the United States and Iran.
03.13.2018	House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.) and 53 House Democrats sent a letter to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke today on the Trump administration’s recent announcement that the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) will now consider all permits for importing elephant and lion carcasses into the country on a case-by-case basis. This move will allow more trophy imports into the United States and undermines public and judicial scrutiny of unjustified permitting decisions. The recent Trump administration announcement is another example of the White House going back on its word to cater to the demands of industry and the National Rifle Association (NRA). The letter states in part: In November 2017, when FWS announced its plans to allow elephant trophy imports from Zimbabwe and Zambia, it was met with outrage by the American public. Even President Trump directed the FWS to “put big game trophy decision on hold” and stated that he would be very hard pressed to change his mind that “this horror show in any way helps conservation of Elephants or any other animal.” Following Trump’s tweet, the Department of the Interior issued a statement claiming that no permits for elephant imports from Zimbabwe or Zambia would be allowed pending a “review” of those decisions. Even though it is unclear if the FWS conducted such a review, the Trump White House and FWS have since tried to quietly announce that they will now consider all permits for importing elephant and lion carcasses on a “case-by-case” basis, as a response to an NRA and Safari Club International lawsuit. The full letter is available here: http://bit.ly/2IkIu4O. Secretary Zinke created an advisory board – the International Wildlife Conservation Council – in early November made up primarily of trophy hunting advocates. The board includes hunting tourism guides, other hobby millionaires, and members of the NRA and Safari Club. When the board was announced, Ranking Member Grijalva and Rep. Beyer led a letter to Secretary Zinke opposing its creation and demanding that the council be terminated. “Trump has taught us that we can’t trust what he tweets – it’s all for show – because his administration will always ultimately choose big industry and the NRA over the needs of the American people,” Grijalva said. Trump tweeted in November that he was putting a hold on reversing the Obama-era trophy hunting ban after a Fox News host tweeted her disappointment with the administration’s decision. A few days ago, she tweeted again asking Trump to “stick with [his] good instinct on this.” Ranking Member Grijalva recently released an updated Committee report that takes a hard look at the rationale for allowing Americans to import hunting trophies of threatened and endangered species, and provides recommendations on how the Trump administration can improve the program. The report found that taxpayers are covering 92 percent of all permit fees, which means they are subsidizing the hobby of people wealthy enough to afford trophy hunting-related expenses.
03.08.2018	“All women deserve to live in an equal and just world. We have seen rapidly growing awareness about the need for gender equality and women’s empowerment over the past year, but America’s leaders sadly have not delivered the kind of results the country deserves. “Women are the primary breadwinners in nearly half of American households, but their pay has not kept pace with their growing importance in our businesses and economy. Women should not have to wait for equality, nor should they have to wait for workplaces and communities free of harassment. “Globally, the United States must continue to support the economic and social progress of women and girls even as we continue to combat inequities in our own country. “I remain committed to being the best ally and advocate for women that I can be, and will continue seeking partners in both parties to advance a pro-woman agenda in Congress.” This afternoon Beyer will address Alexandria’s International Women’s Day rally, at 4 p.m. in Market Square (301 King St.).
03.07.2018	We are full of grief for the 17 lives lost in Parkland, Fla., last month. As representatives of communities – Isla Vista, Calif.; Newtown, Conn.; and Alexandria, Va. – which have been the site of major mass shootings, we are keenly aware that their loss is shared by too many families across the country every year. Nationally, the epidemic of gun violence claims tens of thousands of American lives every year. But those of us who have fought in Congress for years for gun reforms – for too little progress – now see a ray of hope. The courageous voices of America’s young people have driven home the urgency of this problem to many of our colleagues and created a moment in which action is possible. We are strong proponents of measures long backed by gun violence prevention activists, including funding for research into the causes of and potential solutions to gun violence at the Centers for Disease Control, and requiring background checks for every gun sale. In addition to these popular ideas, we have another, less well-known proposal to save lives which has growing support from conservatives and gun advocates. The young man who killed so many in Florida sent so many signals to his family and community, to the school which expelled him, and to law enforcement that he was dangerous. He threatened people with guns, posted menacing messages online, and behaved in ways that led to authorities being alerted that he might pose a danger multiple times. None of these signs of danger stopped him from bringing an AR-15 rifle to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School and opening fire. The legal options available to police in states like Florida aren’t good enough to stop these tragedies. So we have introduced a bipartisan bill that would give families and law enforcement a legal tool to prevent mass shootings. The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act would empower families and authorities to act on the warning signs that so often come just before someone decides to take a life. Experts argue that legislation like ours could have prevented the Parkland shooting, if it had been in place. Five states already have gun violence protections order statutes on the books. In Connecticut, a Duke University study shows gun violence restraining orders are already saving lives. In California, which passed its gun violence restraining order (GVRO) law more recently, the San Diego City Attorney’s Office issued 10 gun violence restraining orders earlier this month following highly credible threats of gun violence, suicide and danger to children. GVROs, also called extreme risk protection orders in some states, are particularly effective at preventing suicide, the leading cause of gun deaths in the United States. By allowing family members to petition a judge to remove guns from loved ones going through a time of crisis, GVROs allow law enforcement to get guns out of the hands of people who pose a threat to themselves or others. Our bill also ensures that any gun owner subject to a GVRO gets fair legal treatment with full due process. That is, in part, why this concept has been endorsed in the past week by leading conservatives including Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, radio talk show host Hugh Hewitt, and David French of the National Review. Last week, President Trump and Vice President Pence, also supported the implementation of GVROs, which are currently law in the vice president’s home state of Indiana. The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act is the kind of practical idea which Americans would broadly support, which would receive enough bipartisan support in Congress to pass into law, and most importantly, which would save American lives if enacted. Carbajal represents California’s 24th District. Esty represents Connecticut’s 5th District and Don Beyer represents Virginia’s 8th District.
03.02.2018	As students returned to classes at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School following the tragic Parkland shooting, they continued their calls for gun reform. Their advocacy helped drive growing momentum in Washington and in state capitals across the country for gun violence restraining order (GVRO) laws, which saw legislative actions on state measures and endorsements of such measures by key political leaders from both parties. The only bill in Congress to help states adopt GVRO laws, the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act, has nearly doubled its number of cosponsors in the past two weeks. The new cospsonsors include Parkland Rep. Ted Deutch (D-FL) and Sen. Bill Nelson (D-FL), as well as Republican Reps. Brian Fitzpatrick (PA) and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. The bill’s leaders, Reps. Salud Carbajal, Elizabeth Esty, and Don Beyer, are actively recruiting additional Republican cosponsors. Rep. Esty also brought the proposal to the White House for President Trump’s meeting on gun violence this week, where Vice President Pence spoke favorably about Indiana’s gun violence restraining order law, and was met with approval from President Trump. Indiana is one of only five states with a gun violence restraining order law (also known as “Extreme Risk Protective Orders” (ERPO’s), or “red flag” laws) on the books, but that number may grow soon. State capitals are seeing new action on GVRO proposals in Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, and Wisconsin. The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act was also endorsed this week by the International Association of Chiefs of Police, a professional association for law enforcement with over 30,000 members. GVRO’s drew additional support from the Interdisciplinary Group on Preventing School and Community Violence, a group composed of educators, educational institutions, schools, and school psychological associations, which included a call for GVRO’s in its Call for Action to Prevent Gun Violence in the United States. GVRO’s and the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act have previously been endorsed by gun violence prevention groups including Everytown, Giffords, the Brady Campaign, CSGV, Sandy Hook Promise, the Newtown Action Alliance, and more. GVRO laws represent a unique point of bipartisan consensus. Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi voiced new support for them week, shortly after they were written about favorably in the National Review and Reason. Gun violence restraining orders are supported by Florida Senator Marco Rubio, Pennsylvania Senator Pat Toomey, former Governor Jeb Bush, and other prominent conservatives. More on GVRO’s: Wall Street Journal: States Consider Laws Allowing Courts to Take Guns From Dangerous People Washington Post Editorial: There’s something states can do about gun violence: ‘Red-flag’ laws ABC News: “How a temporary restraining order for guns could help stop mass shootings” Bloomberg Editorial: Raising the Red Flag on Guns Sacramento Bee Editorial: “Here’s a California gun law that saves lives. If only Florida had such a law” Reuters: “Gun restraining order might have thwarted Florida shooting: experts” Roll Call: “Democrats Push Bill They Say Could Have Prevented Parkland Shooting” Huff Post: “Here’s How To Stop The Next Nikolas Cruz” More background on GVRO laws is available from Giffords.
02.28.2018	Today, the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus sent a letter condemning the White House’s systematic effort to reduce and suppress public access to climate change resources through federal channels. The members highlighted many examples and expressed their concerns that these efforts violate the intent of the Federal Records Act. The letter comes after a report issued by the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative confirmed concerns that the Administration has been altering federal websites to reduce mentions of climate change and scientific research. The Members wrote: “As members of the Safe Climate Caucus, we have been alarmed by the systematic effort by your administration over the past year to reduce access to climate change resources, science, and other information that had previously been accessible through federal government channels. We are concerned that several of the administration’s actions violate the intent of the Federal Records Act. “Therefore, we urge your Administration, when editing the content of web pages such as those mentioned above, to consider the fact that human-caused global climate change is one of the greatest existential threats to the future of our planet. This includes ensuring that relevant federal agency websites contain clear, prominently featured statements of the Administration’s policies on this issue, and easily accessible links to archived climate information from past iterations of these web pages. Additionally, we suggest that in the future, federal agencies refrain from altering or reducing their web content before they have thoroughly documented their changes and ensured that the original content is made easily accessible through a public archive.” The full text of the letter appears below and the signed copy is here. President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump: As members of the Safe Climate Caucus, we have been alarmed by the systematic effort by your administration over the past year to reduce access to climate change resources, science, and other information that had previously been accessible through federal government channels. We are concerned that several of the administration’s actions violate the intent of the Federal Records Act. A report released by the Environmental Data and Governance Initiative (EDGI) in January of 2018 confirms that our concerns are warranted. The report determined that multiple federal agency websites have been systematically altered to reduce mentions of climate change or obfuscate access to related informational resources. Further, recently released emails document that EPA administrator Scott Pruitt personally monitored efforts to remove climate change information from the agency’s website, demonstrating a controlled effort to censor climate change information. These actions are concerning not only because they downplay the serious threat that climate change poses to the future of our planet, but also because they impede access to important resources for the public to understand and address climate change. Many of the significant reductions to climate-related information over the past year have occurred on the EPA’s website. On April 28, 2017, the agency began a comprehensive website overhaul that included the removal of significant amounts of climate change-related information. One notable removal was the extensive “Student’s Global Guide to Climate Change,” an educational site for children. Another was the EPA’s website describing the potential benefits of the Clean Power Plan. That website was replaced by a webpage about complying with Executive Order 13783 on Energy Independence. While some of the removed resources are archived in the historical January 19, 2017 snapshot of the EPA website, they are more difficult to access, and certain content, such as the “Student’s Guide” and the site containing Spanish-language resources from the Clean Power Plan, were never stored in the snapshot at all. As a result, some of these resources are no longer available anywhere on the EPA website, including within any EPA web archive. Similarly, in late July of 2017, the EPA’s “Climate and Energy Resources for State, Local, and Tribal Governments” website was replaced with a website titled “Energy Resources for State, Local, and Tribal Governments.” The new site excluded over 200 webpages from the original website, scrubbed all climate change references, and eliminated important resources for state, local, and tribal governments, including examples of state plans for climate adaptation. Concerning changes have also been made to the Interior Department’s website, where the main climate change page was altered to remove a paragraph that warned: “climate change affects every corner of the American continent. It is making droughts drier and longer, floods more dangerous, and hurricanes more severe.” Additionally, an extensive explanation of how the DOI’s bureaus coordinate on climate change was removed, as well as links to information on the “Climate Change Response Council,” “Eight DOI Climate Science Centers,” and “A Network of Landscape Conservation Cooperatives.” Worse yet, the Bureau of Land Management’s main climate change page was removed completely. While it is customary for federal agency websites to be updated at the beginning of a new administration, the past year’s overhaul exemplifies what we view as a blatant attempt to obscure the proven connection between human activity and global climate change. These changes, combined with a widespread failure to archive the previous administration’s climate resources in a way that makes them readily accessible to the public or accessible at all, fundamentally interfere with the American public’s ability to access reliable information on this issue. The Federal Records Act requires federal departments and agencies to collect, retain, and preserve their records. This provides Congress, the executive branch, and the public with a history of public-policy execution and its results. We are deeply concerned that the effort to suppress climate change information violates the intent of the Federal Records Act and undermines the democratic process by impeding access to information the public needs for the notice-and-comment rulemaking process. Notice-and-comment depends upon on a well-informed public with access to information including not just the costs, benefits, and potential effects of the regulation in question, but a thorough understanding of the agency’s motivations for proposing or removing regulations. Clear, unbiased communication of scientific and technological information regarding climate change, its causes, impacts, and solutions, is valuable information for state and local entities, as well as American families, as they seek to protect the health and safety of their communities. Therefore, we urge your Administration, when editing the content of web pages such as those mentioned above, to consider the fact that human-caused global climate change is one of the greatest existential threats to the future of our planet. This includes ensuring that relevant federal agency websites contain clear, prominently featured statements of the Administration’s policies on this issue, and easily accessible links to archived climate information from past iterations of these web pages. Additionally, we suggest that in the future, federal agencies refrain from altering or reducing their web content before they have thoroughly documented their changes and ensured that the original content is made easily accessible through a public archive. As a caucus, we believe that these suggestions will promote transparent, science-based climate policies that are readily accessible and help protect all Americans.
02.28.2018	Today Rep. Don Beyer, House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva, and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Ranking Member Donald McEachin requested a briefing from the Department of the Interior (DOI) on the Department’s body camera and policing policies, the status of implementation of the policies, and the current status of deployment of police cameras throughout DOI. The Members wrote: “As you know, the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) Office of Inspector General (OIG) found DOI’s ‘body camera policy and practices are not consistent with industry standards.’ This report is especially concerning after the shooting of 25-year-old Bijan Ghaisar by U.S. Park Police officers. … “As Bijan Ghaisar’s case illustrates, police cameras have the potential to improve policing by building trust in communities, providing transparency, and protecting innocent civilians. To assist us in conducting oversight, we request a briefing on policies, implementation of the policies, and deployment of police cameras throughout DOI.” The House Natural Resources Committee has jurisdiction over the Department of the Interior. Text of the letter follows below, and a signed copy is available here. Harry Humbert Deputy Assistant Secretary Public Safety, Resource Protection, and Emergency Services U.S. Department of the Interior Mailstop 3428-MIB 1849 C Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Deputy Assistant Humbert: As you know, the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) Office of Inspector General (OIG) found DOI’s “body camera policy and practices are not consistent with industry standards.” This report is especially concerning after the shooting of 25-year-old Bijan Ghaisar by U.S. Park Police officers. The shooting was captured on camera by the Fairfax County Police who were also on the scene, but not by the U.S. Park Police as they had neither body cameras nor car dashboard cameras to capture video. The OIG identified 13 recommendations that would help DOI manage its body cameras to be consistent with industry best practices. The report also found that, “to date, use of body cameras has been voluntary and decisions to purchase equipment are generally made at the field or regional level.” The report did not include an examination of dashboard camera policies. Implementing the IG’s recommendations, examining dashboard camera policies, and prioritizing the purchase and adoption of body cameras are important steps to bringing the Department into the modern policing age. As Bijan Ghaisar’s case illustrates, police cameras have the potential to improve policing by building trust in communities, providing transparency, and protecting innocent civilians. To assist us in conducting oversight, we request a briefing on policies, implementation of the policies, and deployment of police cameras throughout DOI. Please contact Kate Schisler in Congressman Beyer’s office or Vic Edgerton of the committee staff with any questions. We look forward to your response.
02.28.2018	Rep. Don Beyer this week joined Congressman David Cicilline to introduce H.R. 5087, the Assault Weapons Ban of 2018. “We need the Assault Weapons Ban because we have to get weapons of war out of America’s communities,” said Rep. Beyer. “It is too late to stop the shootings in Parkland, Newtown, Aurora, and so many others which were carried out with an AR-15 style rifle, but we must act to prevent future such massacres. Congress should listen to the young people in Florida and across the country and pass this lifesaving measure immediately.” The Assault Weapons Ban will prohibit the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: • Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; • Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; • Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; • Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; • And 205 specifically-named and listed firearms. “Assault weapons were made for one purpose. They are designed to kill as many people as possible in a short amount of time. They do not belong in our communities,” said U.S. Rep. David N. Cicilline (RI-01), the House sponsor of the Assault Weapons Ban. “I am proud to introduce the Assault Weapons Ban with the support of leaders in law enforcement. It’s on all of us to end this carnage.” When an assault weapon or a high-capacity magazine is used in a shooting, the number of victims who are killed increases by 63 percent. There have been almost 8,300 incidents of gun violence so far in 2018. More than 2,200 Americans have lost their lives. More than 500 children have been killed or injured.
02.26.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) asking for a rehearing on the Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP) and the Atlantic Coast Pipeline (ACP). Congressman Beyer is deeply concerned that an incomplete, divided Commission rubberstamped the pipelines despite three significant issues: there was a lack of verified need for the infrastructure, there is potential for the pipelines to ruin the ANST and its environs, and finally, the proposals considered were not fully vetted nor did they allow stakeholder input. Beyer wrote: “On October 13, 2017, the Commission approved the Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP) and the Atlantic Coast Pipeline (ACP) without a vote from the entire Commission and despite legitimate concerns about the thoroughness of the pipeline proposals considered and their public comment process, the assessed demand for the new pipelines, and an incomplete Environmental Impact Statement. For these reasons, I request that FERC grant rehearings on the MVP and ACP petitions. FERC voted 2-1 to approve both the MVP and ACP on October 13, 2017, at which time two of the five commissioner seats stood vacant. New FERC commissioners were subsequently sworn in on November 29 and December 7. 98 percent of FERC’s orders in 2016 were unanimous. The full text of the letter appears below and the signed copy is here. The Honorable Kevin McIntyre Chairman, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 1st St NE, Room 11H Washington, D.C. 20426 Dear Chairman McIntyre and Commissioners: On October 13, 2017, the Commission approved the Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP) and the Atlantic Coast Pipeline (ACP) without a vote from the entire Commission and despite legitimate concerns about the thoroughness of the pipeline proposals considered and their public comment process, the assessed demand for the new pipelines, and an incomplete Environmental Impact Statement. For these reasons, I request that FERC grant rehearings on the MVP and ACP petitions. When the Commission approved the MVP and ACP applications, two of the five commissioner seats were vacant at the time. The final approving vote was 2-1, a split decision rare for the Commission when 98 percent of FERC votes in 2016 were unanimous. Since the vote, both of the vacant commissioner seats have been filled. A partial decision of this magnitude may not accurately reflect the position of FERC, and thus the Commission should allow for rehearings to ensure that the ruling fairly reflect the entire Commission. A rehearing is valid also because affected stakeholders were not able to offer comments on thousands of pages of updates for FERC consideration. In particular, the Mountain Valley Pipeline process raised legitimate questions on both the completeness of the proposals and alternatives considered, as well as whether calculated impacts were independently verified. It is deeply concerning that the MVP would still destroy miles of iconic viewshed through a major portion of the Appalachian Trial, a vital natural and tourism resource to the state of Virginia and a congressionally designated national scenic trail. It reinforces process concerns about whether FERC had feedback from affected stakeholders on the final updates from Mountain Valley LLC. In addition, FERC needs to consider whether both these pipelines are necessary for the natural gas demand in the regions that are to be served by these pipelines. The Energy Information Administration and the regional grid manager show no growth in demand for natural gas needs in Virginia through 2030. FERC should conduct a thorough, publicly transparent evaluation of the need for the new pipelines, based on independent evidence. Moreover, mitigation plans that are part of the Environmental Impact Statement for the ACP are still incomplete. Therefore, the effects on water resources and fish and other aquatic species are still somewhat unknown. Any leak or spill will have detrimental effects to local watersheds and communities, so it is important that all information be given special consideration. Gas pipelines are long-term investments with long-term consequences, and FERC should take the time to carefully assess these proposals and the concerns I have raised. For these reasons, FERC should grant a re-hearing.
02.21.2018	As students in Florida and across the country express their outrage over inaction to strengthen lax gun laws, political leaders from both parties are coming out in support of gun violence restraining orders (GVRO’s). In the past few days, GVRO’s have been written about favorably in the National Review, and supported by Florida Senator Marco Rubio, former Governor Jeb Bush, and other prominent conservatives. More on GVRO’s: National Review: “A Gun-Control Measure Conservatives Should Consider” ABC News: “How a temporary restraining order for guns could help stop mass shootings” Sacramento Bee Editorial Board: “Here’s a California gun law that saves lives. If only Florida had such a law” PBS: “This Florida bill could restrict guns from dangerous owners” NPR [Morning Edition]: “Politics In The News: Gun-Violence Restraining Order” The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act, introduced by Representatives Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), and Don Beyer (D-VA) would codify the proposal nationally. That bill is seeing rising support in the House of Representatives this week, and the Members are actively seeking Republican cosponsors. More on the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act: Reuters: “Gun restraining order might have thwarted Florida shooting: experts” Roll Call: “Democrats Push Bill They Say Could Have Prevented Parkland Shooting” Huff Post: “Here’s How To Stop The Next Nikolas Cruz” The Hill: “Lawmakers Feel Pressure On Guns” State and Local Coverage from: Florida, New York, North Carolina, Wisconsin, and California A GVRO allows family members or law enforcement to petition a judge for the temporary removal of guns from people who are established to be a threat to themselves or others. Five states already have versions of the measure, which at least one study has shown saves lives. More background is available from Giffords on gun violence restraining orders (also known “Gun Violence Protective Orders,” “Extreme Risk Protective Orders” (ERPO), and “Red Flag Laws”).
02.20.2018	Rep. Don Beyer gave the following remarks last night at the vigil for victims of the Parkland, Florida shooting held in Falls Church at George Mason High School. Video is available here, courtesy of Blue Virginia. “Thank you for showing up on a cold, gray February holiday afternoon. Change is only driven by the people who show up. And we must, must deal with the prevalence of gun violence in this country. Let me give you some statistics. In 2016, more than 39,000 Americans were killed by guns: 96 Americans a day, 7 of them children. Every month, 50 women are killed by their husbands or their boyfriends. And last year, more than 23,000 Americans took their own life with a gun. Do the math. Each one of us is expected to live at least 80 years, right? That means 3 million Americans will die by gun in our lifetimes. That’s 5 times all the combat deaths in every U.S. war put together. That’s more than the population of 19 different states. Yet, we know what do. We keep hearing this is an impossible, unsolvable problem. I lived in Switzerland for 4 years. The rest of the world has this figured out, Germany, UK, France, Switzerland, etc. I love the Onion headline that says quote “’No way to prevent this’, says the only nation where this regularly happens’. And my generation grew up doing the drills, where we’d hide under the desk in case the Soviet Union threw nuclear weapons at us. Of course, that never happened. This generation has to drill for something that happens every few days, where the librarian has to count the number of doors in and out of their library. It’s completely insane that we accommodate this gun slaughter. I’m going to ask you to keep your eye on a bill to create something called a Gun Violence Restraining Order. When people are in a crisis, when they’re a danger to themselves and others, families and law enforcement should be able to put them on the background check list. They could have done that with Nikolas Cruz, they could have done that with Cho at Virginia Tech. They could have done that with the young man at Alla Vista. When the warning signs go unheeded, that’s when we get in deep trouble. And there are many, many more ideas: closing the gun show loophole, banning weapons of war, studying gun violence at the CDC. None of these would take away a citizen’s right to own a gun. None of these would violate the 2nd Amendment. And all of these are supported by a majority of the American public. So why haven’t we done a single one of these things? Well, we have to look to the elected leaders who refuse to let anything out of committee and refuse to allow a vote on the floor of the Senate or the House. Thoughts and prayers are meaningless. The passive acceptance of gun death is wrong, it is sinful, and it is express complicity in these senseless deaths. The people in charge think they can just wait this out and not have to do anything. It’ll be just like Orlando or Las Vegas or Sandy Hook. After Las Vegas, they couldn’t even ban bump stocks. Who among us needs a bump stock? You know, I keep wondering, because I serve with a lot of these people, how does somebody like Paul Ryan go to bed at night with images of the children, the mothers, the fathers, the brothers, the sisters, these bodies and not have it haunt his dreams? I promise you, it haunts my dreams. It sure haunts everybody here. When the NRA talks about guns, they talk about freedom. Well let’s push back. What about the freedom to go to school without having to worry? When the NRA talks about guns, they talk about the sacred 2nd Amendment. Well I thought one of the parents in Parkland put it best. He said, ‘What makes the 2nd Amendment more sacred than the life of my child?’ A professor at Georgetown 4 years ago wrote a book on paradigm shift. He coined the phrase. He pointed out that all through history when there’s paradigm shift, it’s never the old people that do the changing. But when Galileo decided the Earth goes around the Sun, he had to wait till the old scientists died. We’ve found in recent years it was the young people that gave us marriage equality in America. We need to wake up the political leaders in all of us to make this happen. I just want to end with the last line of my favorite Ba’hai prayer. It simply says, ‘With eagerness and patience, with hope and gratitude, I bend to the task of the hour.’ This is the task of our hour.”
02.15.2018	Today, in response to the tragic shooting killing seventeen students and educators at Marjorie Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, Representatives Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), and Don Beyer (VA-08) urged passage of H.R. 2598, the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act (GVRO). The bill would allow family members or law enforcement officials to petition a judge to temporarily remove firearms from an individual in crisis. “While the troubling details of the shooting in Florida are still emerging, it is clear this horrific act of violence was perpetrated by an individual in crisis,” said Rep. Carbajal. “I lost my older sister to suicide with a firearm at a young age. What I’ve learned since, is that temporarily preventing people from having a gun while in a state of crisis saves lives. No parent should send their children to school each day wondering if they will return home. We are once again reminded that we have a responsibility to act in Congress to change things. We owe these families more than just our thoughts and prayers.” “Americans are grappling today with the fact that multiple warning signs failed to stop a young man from killing 17 students and teachers at a Florida school,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act is designed to prevent people who pose a threat to themselves or others from having access to guns; it is already saving lives in the states which have adopted it. After yesterday’s shooting Congress should immediately take up and pass this bill to extend these protections to the whole country.” “Yesterday, the nation watched in horror once again as children fled their school, running past armored vehicles as a killer who authorities were allegedly warned was dangerous wreaked havoc on innocents with a semiautomatic rifle,” said Rep. Esty. “Connecticut has taken the commonsense step of creating a Gun Violence Restraining Order to protect families from high-risk, threatening individuals with access to high-powered weapons of war, and these restraining orders have saved real lives. It’s long past time for the country to follow Connecticut's example and do something to prevent the epidemic of gun violence tearing communities apart across America.” Background: The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act would incentivize states to enable family members or law enforcement officials to go to a court to seek a “gun violence prevention order,” to temporarily stop someone who poses a threat to themselves or others from purchasing or possessing a gun. The bill will also ensure that a court can issue a “gun violence prevention warrant,” allowing law enforcement to take temporary possession of firearms that are in an individual’s possession if the court determines that the individual poses a threat to themselves or others. Furthermore, it would ensure that law enforcement makes full use of all existing state and local gun databases when assessing a tip, warning, or request from a concerned family member or other close associate. U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein introduced the companion legislation S. 1212 in the Senate. Read the full bill text here.
02.14.2018	“President Trump’s budget presents a dystopian vision of the United States. We would see massive, promise-breaking cuts to Medicaid and Medicare, as well as to nutrition programs for the poor. And we would see this while giving the wealthiest Americans huge tax cuts. This budget proposes that we cripple the EPA, give up on the promise of clean air and clean water, and sell out public lands and treasured natural spaces like the Chesapeake Bay to benefit polluters and fossil fuel companies. It calls for making huge cuts to scientific research, clean energy, and infrastructure to pay for a useless wall on the southern border. Trump envisions elimination of the Affordable Care Act at the cost of health care for millions. He also envisions huge cuts to the Centers for Disease Control while spending billions on an ever-expanding military industrial complex. Trump would diminish our children’s future with cuts to essential areas such as job creation, rural assistance and public schools. And these cuts would go hand-in-hand with crippling national deficits and complete inaction on climate change. Such a view of our country is depressingly bleak, and Congress should reject it."
02.12.2018	“After months of promises that it would produce a “$1.5 Trillion Infrastructure Plan,” the Trump Administration today issued a document which contains neither an infrastructure plan nor $1.5 trillion in investments. Trump proposes to throw $200 billion at an unspecified set of projects, with unfounded hopes that over $1 trillion would magically appear to provide the vast majority of the funding. This “plan” is nothing but smoke and mirrors, and the fact that it was unveiled on the same day as a budget which slashes funding for the Department of Transportation by 19%, eliminates TIGER grants, and cuts Amtrak funding in half shows great cynicism and insincerity. It is particularly outrageous that Trump suggested selling off key local infrastructure, including both of Northern Virginia’s airports, the GW Parkway, and the DC Aqueduct. The President didn’t consult any state or local leaders about any of this, but if he had we would have told him that our community ardently opposes anything of the kind. Trump isn’t trying to fix our infrastructure, he’s trying to sell it off. The Administration also proposes to raise money by increasing fossil fuel production on public lands, and would waive environmental safeguards in the process of approving pipelines. This is just one more example of this Administration’s anti-public lands agenda. Their “plan” also fails to make any mention of climate change or any investments in renewable energy, on the same day the Trump budget proposed drastic cuts to clean energy infrastructure. There is no semblance of a real bipartisan effort. Our country sorely needs stable funding to rebuild critical infrastructure and repair crumbling roads and bridges, but unfortunately the Trump Administration is not taking these problems seriously.” The Trump Administration’s “Legislative Outline for Rebuilding Infrastructure in America” proposes (page 19: Section VI, Part C) the “potential divestiture” of local assets, including “Ronald Reagan Washington National and Dulles International Airports; George Washington and Baltimore Washington Parkways… and Washington Aqueduct.”
02.12.2018	Congressman Don Beyer joined Representatives Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) and Annie Kuster (NH-02) in calling on White House Chief of Staff General John Kelly to answer questions as to what was known by senior Trump Administration staff regarding allegations of domestic violence by White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter. The letter follows reports that Chief of Staff Kelly knew about the allegations against Porter for months and that Porter was unable to obtain a necessary security clearance due to his violent history. The members are also requesting details of the White House’s policies regarding domestic violence. Specifically, the members are requesting to know: · When did Chief of Staff Kelly learn that multiple women had alerted the FBI about Mr. Porter’s history of domestic violence? · What details were provided to Kelly about the abuse allegations against Mr. Porter? · What is the White House policy regarding domestic violence and what is the protocol for handling situations in which the White House is alerted to these allegations involving a member of staff? · Are there other White House employees who have security clearances pending because of allegations of domestic violence? The letter was signed by Reps. Reps. Lois Frankel (FL-21), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01), Ted Lieu (CA-33), Grace Napolitano (CA-33), Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Dina Titus (NV-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Cheri Bustos (IL-13), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Nita Lowey (NY-17), Alma Adams (NC-12), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), David Cicilline (RI-01), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Paul Tokono (NY-20), and Grace Meng (NY-06). “We are extremely concerned by reports of domestic violence by former White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter,” the members wrote. “These reports appear to indicate that the Administration knowingly employed a man with a demonstrated pattern of violence against women and who did not possess the appropriate, permanent security clearance necessary for the position… Women and men throughout the country deserve to know the White House is committed to maintaining the highest level of integrity amongst its staff – particularly those who have been entrusted with our national security.” The full text of the letter is available here and below: February 9, 2018 General John Kelly White House Chief of Staff The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear General Kelly, We are extremely concerned by reports of domestic violence by former White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter. These reports appear to indicate that the Administration knowingly employed a man with a demonstrated pattern of violence against women and who did not possess the appropriate, permanent security clearance necessary for the position. As White House Staff Secretary, Mr. Porter undoubtedly read and handled extremely sensitive national security information on behalf of the President. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) learned of the allegations of physical abuse from two of his ex-wives in January 2017. These serious allegations prevented Mr. Porter from obtaining the permanent security clearance required for the role of Staff Secretary. According to several reports, senior White House officials were made aware of the allegations in early fall. Despite being aware of these morally reprehensible and security-compromising claims, Mr. Porter remained in the position. In your role as Chief of Staff, you are aware of the rigorous FBI background checks individuals with access to this information must undergo to obtain the permanent security clearance required, and you are informed of any issues with clearing senior presidential personnel in the process. As such, we respectfully request answers to these questions: (1) When did you learn that multiple women had alerted the FBI about Mr. Porter’s history of domestic violence? (2) What details were provided to you about the abuse allegations against Mr. Porter? (3) What is the White House policy regarding domestic violence and what is the protocol for handling situations in which the White House is alerted to these allegations involving a member of staff? (4) Are there other White House employees who have security clearances pending because of allegations of domestic violence? Furthermore, we direct you to the letter Ranking Member Cummings sent to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform dated February 8, 2018 requesting credible oversight of the security clearance process at the White House. We strongly urge your cooperation in the matter should Chairman Gowdy make the request. Women and men throughout the country deserve to know the White House is committed to maintaining the highest level of integrity amongst its staff – particularly those who have been entrusted with our national security. Thank you for your attention to this matter and we look forward to your response. Sincerely,
02.09.2018	“My decision to vote against the budget caps bill early this morning was not an easy one. This bill contained many things that are very good for the country. These funding levels represent a major victory after five years of work to end budget sequestration. Our region’s economy stands to benefit substantially from ending this arbitrary and destructive policy, and I wish Republicans had allowed it to happen years ago. After months of fighting for a budget that provides long-term certainty for defense and non-defense agencies, I am very happy that Congress was finally able to achieve this basic requirement of governance thanks to help from Democratic leaders. The deal also achieved large investments in transportation, funding to address the opioid crisis, disaster relief, urgently-needed funding for community health centers, and veterans’ care. I support these goals wholeheartedly, and remain firmly opposed to any government shutdown. At the same time, I have said since the beginning of this fight in September that my support for major budget legislation was contingent on the House taking action to protect Dreamers, which House Republicans still refuse to do. It was deeply disheartening that Speaker Ryan was unable to bring himself to even say the word “bipartisan,” or to make Mitch McConnell’s verbal commitment to a “fair and open” process for immigration legislation. How can we make progress on this issue when the Speaker premises any future discussion on catering to the nativist desires of the far right of his conference and a xenophobic White House? There is now less than a month until the March deadline created by the Trump Administration to take action, and in all this time neither Trump nor Ryan has made any constructive contribution to protect these young Americans. Paul Ryan will not be able to deliver the promise he made to Dreamers to protect them unless he shows the courage to stand up to his radical fringe and allow legislation supported by most of Congress and most Americans to come to the floor for a vote.”
02.07.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the report, confirmed by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that President Trump has asked the Department of Defense to plan a large military parade in Washington, D.C.: “Most of the reasons why Trump’s idea of huge military parade is a terrible one are immediately obvious. Our military is already strong without having to waste millions of dollars on a parade that could be better spent improving veterans’ services. In 2018 such displays are reminiscent of authoritarians than they are of healthy democracies. Planning this vanity project for President Trump is already an embarrassing misuse of our military leaders’ time, which should be focused on keeping Americans safe. But there is also regional opposition to this idea because of its local impact. At least one Department of Defense official has already expressed concerns that running heavy military equipment of the kind Trump has asked for could damage local infrastructure. We are still waiting to see the details of Trump’s long-heralded national infrastructure plan, and I fear that my constituents may see their roads ‘chewed up’ before they see any progress toward rebuilding roads and bridges.” The initial Washington Post report on the parade noted that “military leaders are likely to raise” concerns with the president “that 70-ton tanks built for the battlefield would chew up Pennsylvania Avenue blacktop.” In early 2017, a Department of Defense official said that the military rejected requests from the incoming Trump Administration to include tanks and missile launchers in its inaugural parade out of concerns over “structural support” and the potential destruction of roads. The Post’s story also noted that the parade would be expected to follow “the same route as Trump’s inaugural parade,” which included passage over Arlington Memorial Bridge. Memorial Bridge, which is set to receive multi-year repairs costing over $200 million beginning later this year, has previously been subject to weight limits due to structural deficiencies.
02.05.2018	Congressmen Jim Langevin (D-RI), Gregg Harper (R-MS), Bill Foster (D-IL), Pete Sessions (R-TX) and Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA) today introduced the Transition to Independence Act, a bill that encourages states to expand opportunities for individuals with disabilities to find competitive, integrated employment in the community. “Too many people with disabilities still face significant barriers to meaningful employment at a competitive wage,” said Congressman Langevin, co-chair of the Bipartisan Disabilities Caucus in Congress. “This legislation creates a pathway for individuals with disabilities to access more rewarding and productive job opportunities that foster independence and lead to a higher quality of life.” “Every person deserves the chance to work. Unfortunately, individuals with disabilities still face discrimination and work environments that separate them from opportunities that could help them advance their skills,” said Congressman Foster. “This legislation will help to empower individuals with disabilities reach their full potential to lead happy and fulfilling lives. I am proud to co-sponsor this bill and thank Congressman Langevin and Congressman Harper for their leadership on this important issue.” “Earlier this year my son who is a Down syndrome young man was hired at Home Depot,” said Congressman Sessions. “Each and every day Alex goes to work with a smile on his face and a great attitude. Home Depot saw more than just a disability, they saw the light and love that anyone who knows Alex sees. I am proud to cosponsor this bill to ensure that Medicaid Buy-In States are incentivized to provide opportunities like integrated employment for young men and women like Alex to grow and flourish in the workplace.” “This bill is an important step towards ensuring that individuals with disabilities can reach their full potential and achieve meaningful work,” said Congressman Beyer. “I thank Congressman Langevin for being a forceful advocate for equal opportunity and independence for the disability community.” The Transition to Independence Act would enable 15 states with a Medicaid Buy-In option to establish demonstration programs that help people with disabilities move out of segregated work environments and into community-based employment settings. By providing access to accurate information and increasing coordination of key support services, this legislation will promote self-determination, independence, productivity, and greater inclusion within the community. A copy of the bill can be found here.
02.02.2018	“Against the advice of his own Republican appointees who lead the Department of Justice and the FBI, President Trump decided to release Devin Nunes’ highly politicized memorandum before he had even read it. It will be immediately apparent to anyone who reads it how overblown the predictions about the importance of this document were. The words of TV pundits and partisan Congressmen who claimed the memo was “worse than Watergate” and “the biggest political scandal in American history” have been shown to be absurd and wrong, just as those of us who had already read it said they would be. President Trump’s stated hope that this would undermine the Special Counsel’s investigation into his campaign’s cooperation with Russia and his obstruction of justice has also been disappointed. The document entirely focuses on the Steele Dossier and Carter Page, whom the White House tried to disavow, and whose manifold Russian ties are well-documented. The Nunes memo intentionally omits basic, key information on Page, including the established fact that he had come under FBI surveillance years ago when Russian spies attempted to recruit him as an intelligence asset in 2013. As even Nunes acknowledges, the FBI’s original investigation of the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia was launched on the basis of reports about George Papadopoulos, long before the Bureau became aware of the Steele Dossier. Nunes has made a case against a narrow FISA warrant process that is entirely dependent on the withholding of facts which provide essential context. Nunes also prevented the simultaneous release of the Schiff memo, which rebutted his dishonest work point by point, in an effort to prevent the full truth from emerging. The public must now be allowed to read Ranking Member Schiff’s response. It is deeply disheartening that Republicans on the Intelligence Committee, who have shown little appetite for finding the truth about Russian attacks on our elections or preventing similar future attacks, should instead engage in partisan warfare aimed to discredit the FBI and the Justice Department. But even these few misleading pages failed to in any way tarnish the Mueller investigation, which must continue without political interference.”
01.30.2018	Rep. Don Beyer will attend Donald Trump’s Address to the Joint Session of Congress on the State of the Union this evening accompanied by guest Jessica Chilin-Hernández, a Northern Virginian originally born in El Salvador who holds Temporary Protected Status (TPS). The Trump Administration announced that it would end TPS protections for over 200,000 Salvadorans earlier this month. “Jessica Chilin-Hernández is a smart young woman who has worked hard to become a thriving member of our community,” said Rep. Beyer. “Thousands like her face being torn from livelihoods, homes, and families because of Trump’s arbitrary decision to attack immigrants and ignore the very real situation in El Salvador. Like Dreamers, many TPS-holders grew up in this country and are inextricable contributors to our economy and our lives. They all deserve better from the President and Congress.” El Salvador was one of the countries Donald Trump alluded to as a “shithole” during comments in a White House meeting on immigration earlier this month. Northern Virginia and the National Capital Region are home to a large and thriving Salvadoran community. “I am honored to attend tonight's State of the Union Address as Virginia Congressman Don Beyer's guest,” said Jessica Chilin-Hernández. “I am grateful for the opportunity to be there as a TPS Holder. I hope that President Trump's State of the Union address will engender conversations across the country around a comprehensive immigration reform that affects all immigrants in addition to Dreamers and TPS Holders.” A short biography of Chilin-Hernández is available here.
01.29.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen and Congressman Don Beyer introduced the Healthy Climate and Family Security Act. This ‘cap and dividend’ approach is a simple, fair, and effective plan to address the dangers of climate change. It would put more money in the pockets of hardworking Americans, increasing their spending power and growing our entire economy. The introduction of the legislation came days after President Donald Trump gave an interview which again revealed his anti-science agenda and ignorance of climate science. “Climate change is a clear and present danger, but we can confront that danger in a way that presents new economic opportunities. While the Trump Administration has abdicated American leadership on this critical issue, Congress must fight back,” said Senator Van Hollen, a member of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and the Senate Climate Task Force. “This legislation puts a price on carbon pollution and returns the proceeds directly to the American people at the same time it accelerates the growth of good paying jobs in clean technologies. It is a win-win-win, boosting middle class pocketbooks, growing good paying jobs, and reducing our carbon footprint.” “Our bill would put a price on carbon and money into Americans’ pockets. The country deserves strong leadership that actually solves problems, rather than Donald Trump’s approach of denying that this existential threat to the planet even exists. Our ambitious, bicameral legislation is designed to have broad appeal across the political spectrum, and present real solutions to climate change,” said Congressman Don Beyer, Vice Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and co-Chair of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus. The Healthy Climate and Family Security Act caps carbon pollution and reduces CO2 emissions gradually but steadily. It auctions carbon pollution permits to the first sellers of oil, coal, and natural gas into the U.S. market, and returns 100 percent of the auction proceeds electronically each quarter to every American in the form of a Healthy Climate Dividend. A University of Massachusetts Amherst study found a ‘cap and divided’ approach would mean more than 80 percent of families would see more money in their pockets, even before taking into account the economic benefits of preventing the costly impacts of climate change. “Hands down, the Van Hollen ‘cap and dividend’ bill is the strongest strategy to reduce climate pollution ever introduced in Congress. This policy gets the job done in a way that’s simple, increases family budgets, and is utterly fair to all Americans,” said Mike Tidwell, Executive Director of Chesapeake Climate Action Network (CCAN) Action Fund. Gene Karpinski, President of the League of Conservation Voters (LCV), said, “LCV applauds Senator Van Hollen and Representative Beyer for their leadership with this legislation. Putting a price on carbon and transitioning to clean energy will create jobs, protect our health, and avoid the worst impacts of climate change. More members of Congress should follow their lead and work to address the climate crisis instead of doubling down on Trump’s pro-polluter agenda that guts our most basic public health protections. LCV is committed to working with our climate champions like Senator Van Hollen and Representative Beyer to address climate change.” “EDF Action applauds Senator Van Hollen and Representative Beyer for their continuing efforts to address the dangers of climate change. The Van Hollen-Beyer legislation is a serious proposal to reduce climate pollution, protect our children's future, and boost job-creating clean energy solutions,” said Environmental Defense Fund Action President Joe Bonfiglio. The dividend approach has received bipartisan support. Last year, a group of Republican leaders met with top White House officials to make the case for a similar approach to combat climate change that returns the proceeds to the American people but through a carbon tax and dividend. The Washington Post called this ‘cap and dividend’ proposal “elegant and effective” for its simple and market-based approach.
01.24.2018	Rep. Beyer reaction to Fairfax County Police Department’s release of video showing US Park Police shooting of Bijan Ghaisar: “I’m glad the Fairfax County Police Department released their video of the shooting of Bijan Ghaisar by US Park Police. This is an important step towards the kind of transparency which is essential in getting the truth of what happened. I have been in close contact with Bijan Ghaisar’s family and also with the FBI, and will continue to press authorities conducting an ongoing investigation to reveal the facts of this case in a timely manner. The police video raises further questions about the decision to use lethal force, and law enforcement authorities owe it to Mr. Ghaisar’s family and the community they serve to answer those questions.”
01.24.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today led a group of seven Democrats from the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology urging President Trump to staff the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) with qualified scientific advisors. The same group previously called upon the President in May of 2017 to appoint a qualified OSTP Director, weeks before Trump made a decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement. The faulty logic which he gave for that decision in a roundly-criticized December tweet was cited in the Democrats’ letter. The Members wrote: “…you have continued to operate without the crucial scientific and technological expertise which OSTP has provided to previous presidents. A recent report described the office as being a ‘ghost town,’ and our concerns that you would fall prey to misinformation have continued to be borne out. Recent actions and statements by you and your Administration have demonstrated the dire need for scientific expertise in the Trump White House. … “Despite its importance to the safety and prosperity of the country, however, a year into your term, OSTP remains without a Director and has one third as many staff as it had under President Obama. It is deeply important that you fill the vacant office of OSTP Director as required by law, and fully staff this institution with qualified and knowledgeable officials, as soon as possible.” The letter was signed by Rep. Don Beyer, Vice-Ranking Member of the Science Committee, along with Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) and Committee Members Bill Foster (D-IL), Mark Takano (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), and Jerry McNerney (D-CA). Text of the letter follows below, and a signed copy is available here. President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Trump, We wrote you in May urging you to appoint a Director for the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). Specifically, we wrote to you to say, “We are concerned about the process by which you receive information… Until the OSTP is adequately staffed and the director position filled by a qualified, objective scientist who understands the difference between alternative news peddled on alt-right websites and legitimate well-vetted scientific facts, we fear that you will continue to be vulnerable to misinformation and fake news.” Since that time, you have continued to operate without the crucial scientific and technological expertise which OSTP has provided to previous presidents. A recent report described the office as being a “ghost town,” and our concerns that you would fall prey to misinformation have continued to be borne out. Recent actions and statements by you and your Administration have demonstrated the dire need for scientific expertise in the Trump White House. On December 28, you tweeted: “In the East, it could be the COLDEST New Year’s Eve on record. Perhaps we could use a little bit of that good old Global Warming that our Country, but not other countries, was going to pay TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS to protect against. Bundle up!” This tweet betrayed a total ignorance of the difference between climate and weather, and also of the principles of the Paris Climate Agreement, from which you decided to withdraw the United States last year. Scientific experts believe that climate change significantly worsened the numerous natural disasters that afflicted Americans across the country in 2017, claiming thousands of lives and costing hundreds of billions of dollars. Complying with the terms of the Paris Agreement would have required federal outlays estimated at a small fraction of that amount, and would help to mitigate future climate-related disasters. More broadly, your Administration has repeatedly downplayed or ignored the importance of scientific fact and scientific research. In November, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Director Scott Pruitt insisted that he would go forward with its decision to repeal the Clean Power Plan, the centerpiece to our national strategy to confront climate change, despite his own agency’s report that climate change represents a major threat to the United States. You removed climate change from your national security strategy, even though military leaders say that climate change and its geopolitical fallout represent a clear and present danger to this country. And you proposed a budget which would gut funding for scientific and medical research. We believe that these mistakes might have been avoided if you had availed yourself of the kind of expert advice which previous presidents relied on when making such decisions. We are even more concerned, however, about what might occur if the country faces an unforeseen catastrophe. We are therefore writing to again urge you to staff your team with qualified scientific advisors. As former OSTP Director Neal F. Lane noted recently, this office provided crucial information which helped past presidents handle national security crises including 9/11, the anthrax attacks which came after it, the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, outbreaks of Zika and Ebola, as well as natural disasters and cyberattacks. Sound scientific and technology advice is indispensable to US national security and economic growth, and to forming federal policies that help drive the kind of research and technological advances that made this country great. Despite its importance to the safety and prosperity of the country, however, a year into your term, OSTP remains without a Director and has one third as many staff as it had under President Obama. It is deeply important that you fill the vacant office of OSTP Director as required by law, and fully staff this institution with qualified and knowledgeable officials, as soon as possible. We thank you for your attention in this matter. Sincerely,
01.22.2018	“Last week when I voted against the fourth continuing resolution in four months, I said ‘Congress’ refusal to live up to its basic responsibilities to the American people must end.’ Nothing has changed since I said those words. Congress’ responsibilities include passing a bipartisan spending bill that preserves the principle of parity between defense and non-defense spending. This essential equivalence of the two sides of discretionary spending was agreed to in the original Ryan-Murray budget, and has been honored each of the last four years. Congress also has a responsibility to protect Dreamers, and it is not at all clear that Paul Ryan and House Republicans are willing to allow the House to vote on a sensible, compromise DACA bill. I have always opposed any government shutdown, and am hopeful that my bipartisan legislation with my friend Congressman Rob Wittman to protect federal workers’ pay will pass soon.”
01.22.2018	Legislative language mirroring a bill offered by Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Rob Wittman (R-VA) to protect the pay of federal workers during the government shutdown was passed by Congress today as part of a larger temporary funding bill. The inclusion of text of the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act will guarantee that the entire federal workforce receives back pay for the time during which appropriations lapsed. “It is deeply disappointing that Congress was unable to prevent a government shutdown, but the passage of the our bill’s language should at least minimize the damage to rank-and-file civil servants,” said Rep. Beyer. “I thank my colleague Rep. Wittman for standing up for the federal workforce again, and hope that this will be the last time that this bill is necessary.” Text of the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act was included in HR 195, which passed both chambers of Congress today. The bill had nearly 100 bipartisan cosponsors. ###
01.19.2018	This week Representatives Don Beyer (VA-08), Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), Earl Blumeanauer (OR-03), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) David Price (NC-04) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) led more than 150 Members of Congress in requesting that the Trump administration return to the drawing board and remove the lease sales for drilling sales in the Atlantic, Arctic, and Pacific Oceans, as well as the Eastern Gulf of Mexico. The economic and environmental devastation caused by the Deepwater Horizon tragedy in 2010 far exceeded what many believed would be the worst-case scenario for an offshore oil accident. More than seven years later, the Gulf Coast still hasn’t fully recovered from its catastrophic impact. “Expanding drilling into the Atlantic, Arctic, and Pacific Oceans, and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico would put our coastal communities, businesses, oceans, and climate at grave risk,” wrote the lawmakers,” “Oil spills would impact beaches and wildlife that depend on healthy oceans, wreaking havoc on ecosystems, local businesses, and residents alike.” “History shows us that where we drill, we eventually spill. Our oceans have already suffered enough damage from the offshore oil and gas industry.” The lawmakers led a coalition of Democrats that included representatives from coastal areas throughout the country. Rep. Beyer has been a fierce critic on the House Committee on Natural Resources of Trump's moves to expand drilling off America's coastlines. He has led bipartisan opposition to oil and gas exploration in the Atlantic Ocean, citing environmental consequences and opposition from coastal communities and military leaders. He introduced bipartisan legislation last year to halt permits for seismic airgun blasting on the Atlantic seaboard. The text of the letter can be found below. January 18, 2018 The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary Department of the Interior 1849 C Street NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Zinke: We write to express our strong opposition to the inclusion of lease sales in the Atlantic, Arctic, and Pacific Oceans, and Eastern Gulf of Mexico in the Draft 2019-2024 National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program (National OCS Program) that was announced on January 4, 2018. This draft plan elevates the interests of the oil and gas industry above all others, while ignoring public input, sound science, and the impacts of climate change on our environment. We urge you to return to the drawing board and remove the lease sales in the Atlantic, Arctic, and Pacific Oceans, and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico from the new National OCS Program. Expanding drilling into the Atlantic, Arctic, and Pacific Oceans, and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico would put our coastal communities, businesses, oceans, and climate at grave risk. Oil spills would impact beaches and wildlife that depend on healthy oceans, wreaking havoc on ecosystems, local businesses, and residents alike. History shows us that where we drill, we eventually spill. Our oceans have already suffered enough damage from the offshore oil and gas industry. More than four million gallons of oil have been spilled or leaked in the Pacific Ocean since 1969. In 2010, the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster caused a ten-year projected economic loss of $8.7 billion in fisheries, including 22,000 lost jobs. In the Arctic, the Department of the Interior found a 75 percent chance of a major oil spill if drilling occurs in Chukchi Sea. Over the past eight years, 3 to 10 oil spills greater than 50 million barrels have occurred each year, and smaller spills are numerous. Fishing, tourism and recreation along the East Coast support nearly 1.4 million jobs and generate around $95 billion in gross domestic product each year. Along the West Coast, similar activities generate around $56 billion in gross domestic product and support more than 500,000 jobs annually. Expanded drilling off our coasts threatens all of that economic productivity and the jobs, families, and communities it sustains. This Administration is pushing a damaging policy on Americans. The governors of New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, Connecticut, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, California, Oregon and Washington – representing both parties and both coasts – all are formally opposed to the President’s plan for new leasing off their respective shores. More than 150 municipalities on the East Coast, West Coast, and Gulf of Mexico have passed resolutions opposing offshore oil and gas drilling and exploration. The New England, Mid-Atlantic, and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils, the Department of Defense, Air Force, Florida Defense Support Task Force, and NASA have all weighed in expressing serious concerns or opposition to offshore exploration and drilling. More than 41,000 businesses and 500,000 fishing families have also joined this overwhelming chorus of voices. This plan would turn a deaf ear to the valid concerns of these leaders and local citizens. This National OCS Program puts our oceans, beaches, and coastal economies at risk. It is ill-conceived and short-sighted, putting the interests of the oil and gas industry ahead of coastal communities. We therefore oppose this plan in its entirety and urge you to remove the lease sales scheduled for the Atlantic, Arctic, and Pacific Oceans, and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico planning areas. We hope you will heed the calls of the American people to promptly withdraw this plan. Sincerely,
01.18.2018	Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Rep. David Cicilline (D-R.I.), and Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), joined by 168 House colleagues, today sent a letter to President Trump expressing their support for keeping the federal government open while pressing for the inclusion of urgent bipartisan priorities in any funding resolution. “Mr. President, it is clear that your budget priorities and ours are in significant conflict. However, there are many bipartisan priorities that we can swiftly deliver for the good of the American people, in addition to keeping government open without interruption,” wrote the legislators. These priorities include: Preserving the agreement in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that required increased spending to be spread evenly between defense spending and non-defense discretionary accounts which have both been harmed by the ongoing sequester; Delivering urgently needed resources for communities fighting the deadly opioid epidemic; Rescuing our heroic veterans who are facing a dire shortfall at the VA; Protecting Dreamers, whom you have publicly supported, by passing the Dream Act; Supporting access to health care by providing critical funding for CHIP and CHCs; Preserving Americans’ endangered pensions by enacting a responsible reform plan; Providing additional disaster recovery funding for Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, Florida, and states impacted by wildfires. “If we can’t agree,” wrote the members, “your party has the majority in the House and Senate to pass your own funding resolution. But that will be a bill we cannot support.” The text of the letter follows: Current signers (171): Welch, Hoyer, Clyburn, Crowley, Yarmuth, Lowey, Cicilline, Jeffries, Chu, Velázquez, Perlmutter, Kilmer, Hanabusa, Lieu, Huffman, Beyer, Shea-Porter, Schakowsky, Carolyn Maloney, Raskin, Lujan Grisham, Clarke, Soto, Krishnamoorthi, Sires, Kildee, Evans, Swalwell, McGovern, Doyle, Pingree, Slaughter, Tonko, Cummings, Doggett, Frankel, Susan Davis, Garamendi, Lawrence, Butterfield, Lee, Cuellar, Moore, Higgins, Cleaver, Meeks, Correa, Cohen, Castor, Wilson, Pocan, Dingell, Lynch, Jayapal, Vela, Lofgren, Price, Torres, Bonamici, Engel, Norcross, Adam Smith, Richmond, McCollum, Luján, Himes, Neal, Schiff, DeSaulnier, Costa, Matsui, Pascrell, Cárdenas, Eshoo, Speier, Espaillat, Bobby Scott, Quigley, Meng, Tsongas, Anthony Brown, Clark, Walz, Kuster, Khanna, Sewell, Vargas, DeLauro, Tim Ryan, Sánchez, Titus, Jackson Lee, Rice, Langevin, Crist, Sarbanes, Plaskett, Hastings, Bishop, Ellison, Napolitano, Beatty, Pallone, Lowenthal, Watson Coleman, Nolan, Moulton, Norton, Deutch, Serrano, Larsen, Boyle, Schrader, Bass, Wasserman Schultz, Carbajal, Adams, McNerney, McEachin, Rush, O’Rourke, Sablan, Veasey, Sean Patrick Maloney, Clay, Payne, DeFazio, Blunt Rochester, Demings, Fudge, Brownley, Ruppersberger, DeGette, Capuano, DelBene, Sherman, Keating, Foster, Bera, Gabbard, Aguilar, Heck, Kennedy, Barragán, Carson, Castro, Danny Davis, Gomez, Al Green, Grijalva, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Hank Johnson, Kaptur, Kihuen, Lawson, Levin, Polis, Roybal-Allard, Takano, Mike Thompson, Blumenauer, Larson, Bustos, Gutiérrez, O’Halleran, David Scott, Rosen, Delaney, Gene Green, Esty, Nadler January 18, 2018 Dear Mr. President, As you know, the Republican Congress must pass a funding resolution by January 19 to keep government open. Indeed, as we approach this latest deadline, Congress faces a long list of urgent, overdue priorities for the American people. With Republicans in control of the House, the Senate and the White House, you do not need Democrats’ votes to keep government open. In any upcoming negotiations, however, Democrats will press for the inclusion of the following bipartisan items, among others: · Preserving the agreement in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that required increased spending to be spread evenly between defense spending and non-defense discretionary accounts which have both been harmed by the ongoing sequester; · Delivering urgently needed resources for communities fighting the deadly opioid epidemic; · Rescuing our heroic veterans who are facing a dire shortfall at the VA; · Protecting Dreamers, whom you have publicly supported, by passing the Dream Act; · Supporting access to health care by providing critical funding for CHIP and CHCs; · Preserving Americans’ endangered pensions by enacting a responsible reform plan; · Providing additional disaster recovery funding for Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, Florida, and states impacted by wildfires. Mr. President, it is clear that your budget priorities and ours are in significant conflict. However, there are many bipartisan priorities that we can swiftly deliver for the good of the American people, in addition to keeping government open without interruption. If we can’t agree, your party has the majority in the House and the Senate to pass your own funding resolution. But that will be a bill we cannot support. Thank you for your attention to our concerns. Sincerely, __________________ __________________ __________________ PETER WELCH DAVID CICILLINE HAKEEM JEFFRIES Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
01.18.2018	Serrano, Espaillat, Bonamici, Beyer, Lee Demand IG Investigation Into ICE/CBP Policies and Actions at Sensitive Locations Response to October Letter Revealed Serious Gaps in Accountability and Oversight Washington, DC –Today, Representatives José E. Serrano (D-NY), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Don Beyer (D-VA), and Barbara Lee (D-CA) called for an Department of Homeland Security Inspector General investigation into Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) policies with regard to repeated violations of those agencies’ sensitive locations policies, and a lack of oversight and safeguards to prevent abuse. The Members believe that only an independent investigation can bring about needed change. “We believe that there is a significant lack of oversight and accountability within these agencies in carrying out enforcement actions at sensitive locations,” wrote the Members. “Without significant changes, enforcement actions at sensitive locations will continue to undermine the health and safety of immigrants and their families- regardless of their underlying immigration status.” In October, 84 Members of Congress sent a letter to the Department of Homeland Security asking for further information about repeated violations of the sensitive locations policies by ICE and CBP, and asking for further information about alleged abuses of these policies and the mechanisms currently in place to ensure accountability. The Department replied just prior to Christmas (see attached document), and revealed significant gaps in oversight of these guidelines. Neither ICE nor CBP keep statistics on their enforcement actions at sensitive locations, and there is not a clear system for complaints and discipline of employees who violate these memoranda. Additionally, CBP agents, who have been involved in several controversial incidents involving sensitive locations, do not receive any training on their agency’s sensitive locations policy. The full text of the letter is below: January 18, 2018 The Honorable John Kelly Acting Inspector General Office of Inspector General/MAIL STOP 0305 Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane SW Washington, DC 20528-0305 Dear Acting Inspector General Kelly, We write to ask you to conduct an investigation into both the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and Customs and U.S. Border Protection (CBP) policies, training, and actions at or near sensitive locations. We believe that there is a significant lack of oversight and accountability within these agencies in carrying out enforcement actions at or near sensitive locations- and that your office has an important role to play in pushing for needed reforms. Along with 79 of our colleagues, last October we wrote a letter to the Department of Homeland Security regarding several problems regarding ICE and CBP efforts at or near sensitive locations. We asked several questions regarding training, oversight, information collection, and accountability. We have attached that response to this letter and the questions answered. Unfortunately, those responses reveal a system that is wholly inadequate to the significant safety, health, and civil liberties concerns raised by recent immigration enforcement activities at or near locations like hospitals, schools, and churches. For instance, the responses to our letter reveal that CBP conducts no training of its employees with regard to its sensitive locations policies. Additionally, we found out that ICE and CBP do not have a clear mechanism for addressing complaints with regard to enforcement actions generally or at sensitive locations in particular. ICE and CBP also apparently do not maintain information on the number of enforcement actions at or near sensitive locations and other related matters. Without significant changes, enforcement actions at or near sensitive locations will continue to undermine the health and safety of immigrants and their families- regardless of their underlying immigration status. As such, we ask that you examine the effectiveness, identify shortcomings, and recommend changes to the current systems for: · Requesting and approving ICE and CBP enforcement actions at or near sensitive locations · Training for CBP and ICE employees regarding sensitive locations policies and procedures · DHS’s record-keeping with regard to enforcement actions at or near sensitive locations · Current complaint mechanisms at ICE and CBP, including the number of complaints made against the agencies since January 20, 2017 · Disciplinary procedures with regard to agent actions at or near sensitive locations, including the number of complaints since that date that have been acted upon by management at ICE and CBP, and the number and types of disciplinary actions taken In addition, we ask that you conduct investigations into several individual enforcement actions that appear to have violated sensitive locations policies. First, we ask that you investigate the actions taken in May 2017 against Irma Francisca Quiñones Alamillo and Oscar Enrique Sánchez Islas, and identify whether CBP sensitive locations policies were violated and whether any disciplinary actions were taken. As you know, they were subject to an immigration enforcement action while they were at the hospital with their infant son (a United States citizen), who was in need of emergency surgery. That surgery was delayed as they were taken from the hospital and processed. We also ask that you investigate the circumstances surrounding the detention of Rosa Maria Hernandez, a ten-year-old girl with cerebral palsy whose medical transport vehicle was stopped and delayed at a CBP interior checkpoint on its way to the hospital so Rosa could have necessary surgery. CBP agents remained in her vicinity during and after surgery, despite reports that hospital officials objected, and subsequently took her into custody for transfer to the Office of Refugee Resettlement and her first separation ever from her family. While we understand that Border Patrol has issued a short memo addressing general procedures regarding ambulances at checkpoints, this guidance also needs scrutiny because it does not resolve the many problems revealed by Rosa Maria's case, including CBP's lack of consideration of medical expertise to guide and restrain enforcement. Significant questions and concerns remain regarding ICE and CBP’s commitment to their own guidelines, and we hope you will examine them in the near future. We look forward to discussing these issues with you further. Sincerely, ### Rep. Beyer was one of these Members of Congress seeking oversight of the Department of Homeland Security following a series of ICE raids at sensitive locations (including one in Alexandria) like courthouses, hospitals, and schools which Department policy says should be off limits to immigration enforcement activities. He’s also a co-lead on the Protecting Sensitive Locations Act, which would codify that policy.
01.18.2018	Today, NASA released data declaring 2017 to be the second hottest year on record. Since the United States started measuring global temperatures 138 years ago, the five hottest years have all occurred since 2010. In response, Reps. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA), co-chairs of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus, issued the following statement: “Climate change is the greatest existential threat of our time, and NASA’s report is the latest in a long list of data points confirming human-driven climate change. The consistent warming of the Earth’s climate will continue to lead to extreme weather catastrophes like the ones that plagued the United States in 2017. The longer our leaders ignore these warnings, the greater the damage will be to our health, environment, infrastructure, and the American people’s pocketbooks. “It is essential that Congress acknowledge this alarming data, and take immediate action. The Trump Administration has withdrawn from the Paris Agreement, slashed funding for scientific research, proposed gutting staffing at scientific agencies, and rolled back important environmental regulations. In an age where the White House is ceding our role as a leader on climate, the responsibility to act must be shouldered by those of us who are bold enough to do so.” The hottest year on record was 2016, but climate scientists have written that 2017 would likely have been hotter than 2016 if not for differences caused by El Niño.
01.18.2018	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA) today introduced the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act, legislation to guarantee back pay to furloughed workers in the event of a government shutdown. Funding for the federal government expires at midnight tomorrow. “We are working hard to avoid a government shutdown, but if it comes our bill would protect federal workers from the worst of the consequences,” said Rep. Beyer. “This legislation is designed to shield civil servants, who need to support their families, from the disastrous effects of Congress’ failure to agree on a budget measure. We hope it will not be needed, but time is running out.” The bill was introduced with 40 bipartisan cosponsors. "Federal employees should not be penalized for Congress’ inability to get its job done on time," Rep. Wittman said. "This legislation sends a clear signal to our federal workers that they will not be harmed in the unfortunate event of a shutdown. While this legislation would minimize the impacts of funding uncertainty, my focus remains on returning Congress to a regular schedule of budgeting and passing appropriations bills." Together the two Virginia Congressmen represent nearly 120,000 federal employees. "AFGE would like to thank Congressman Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Wittman (R-VA) for introducing the ‘Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,’” said American Federation of Government Employees National President J. David Cox. “Federal employees are hardworking public servants who are dedicated to providing quality public services. Federal employees and their families should not be forced to go without pay when they are not allowed to do their jobs because Congress cannot pass a funding measure. Too many Americans—veterans, seniors, and other hardworking people rely on services provided by the federal government. In a government shutdown, it is the American people who pay the price.” A shutdown would temporarily suspend paychecks for federal employees, and retroactive pay for federal workers must be approved by Congress. The Beyer-Wittman legislation would guarantee that no federal employees would lose pay if a government shutdown occurs. “The National Treasury Employees Union applauds Rep. Beyer and Rep. Wittman for introducing this legislation,” said NTEU National President Tony Reardon. “They recognize that frontline federal employees should not lose pay in the event of a shutdown of the federal government. These employees do not control the funding of the federal government and should not suffer when that funding runs out. I hope we do not get to the shutdown stage but I support this effort to protect the federal workforce.” Text of HR 4827, the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act, can be found here.
01.18.2018	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement after casting his vote against the latest Republican continuing resolution: “House Republicans are now forcing us to take our fourth vote on a short-term funding resolution in as many months. This is appalling and absurd. Like my fellow House Democrats, I spent months imploring my Republican colleagues to take action on key priorities for the American people, including passing long term funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and protecting Dreamers. But they were too busy trying to use hundreds of thousands of young people’s lives as leverage and cutting taxes for the wealthy to solve these problems. Donald Trump claims he wants to help Dreamers, yet he keeps taking to Twitter to derail bipartisan efforts to solve a problem he created. Republicans suddenly decided this week that they cared about CHIP, but they could have passed a clean reauthorization of CHIP any time in the past few months and refused to do so. The President keeps talking about how ‘our military needs’ this, but has he listened to them when they have said that they need long term budget certainty? The same is true of our non-defense agencies, which are having to guess again and again about when and how they will be funded as the Republicans who have complete control of government repeatedly fail to do the basic job of governing. The federal workforce deserves better than to experience the fifth Congressional budget fight in five months in February. I do not want the government to shut down, and today introduced bipartisan legislation with my friend Congressman Rob Wittman to protect federal workers’ pay if that happens. But Congress’ refusal to live up to its basic responsibilities to the American people must end.” Earlier today Beyer and his colleague Rep. Wittman (R-VA) introduced the bipartisan Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act to protect federal employee pay in the event of a government shutdown. Beyer represents more federal workers than any other Member of the House of Representatives.
01.17.2018	Below are Congressman Don Beyer’s remarks, as delivered in the House Natural Resources Committee this morning, on a bill (HR 553) offered by Rep. Jody Hice to rename Gravelly Point after former First Lady Nancy Reagan. The bill was marked up today on short notice over the repeated objections of Rep. Beyer. The bill failed on its first attempt, but was brought up again and passed 18-16 on a party-line vote. All of the bill’s cosponsors are Republicans, and it has been repeatedly pushed by Americans For Tax Reform, a conservative advocacy group founded by Grover Norquist which describes its core mission as minimizing “the government's power to control one's life.” HR 553 still requires passage by the full House, as well as Senate passage and a signature by the President, to become law. Video of that markup is available here. *** “Mr. Chairman, with true regret I rise to speak in opposition to this bill. I have great respect for Nancy Reagan, and my opposition to this bill must not be interpreted as my having any personal animus towards our former First Lady. But this bill is the equivalent of someone coming in and changing the furniture in your house without asking you. First, you would have liked them to ask you, and even if you do like the furniture, you probably would have wanted input since it’s your house. First and foremost, this bill does not have local support and did not have any local input. Gravelly Point is not a national tourist attraction, it’s where local families go to have a picnic, throw a ball around, put a blanket down and watch the planes coming in and out, and it’s also where almost every Northern Virginia Uber driver sits to wait for a pickup. In this committee I constantly hear from my Republican friends that local communities know how to manage their land better, and that the feds should stay out of local decisions. I hope that his doesn’t only apply to Republican districts. This bill is Congress unilaterally forcing a decision on a local community – Arlington and Alexandria – without any local say or input. And why? Because this bill is the pet project of Americans for Tax Reform, a special interest group. This is what some call Washington at its worst – when we ignore the will of the local community to appease the desire of a moneyed, special interest. While I understand the desire to honor political figures, something like this should not be done without involving the local community. This would be the equivalent of my offering a bill in Mr. Hice’s district to rename the Oconee National Forest’s campground the Hillary Clinton campground or the Michelle Obama campground. I’m sure Mr. Hice would like his constituents to be able to weigh in on a decision like that. The other reason this is concerning is the process with which it was handled. My understanding typically is that when offering legislation that impacts another Member’s district you either work with them or at least notify them. That respect was not extended to my office. When we discovered it was Americans for Tax Reform and not our constituents that wanted the bill, we asked the sponsor’s office to not move forward, and my requests via staff were ignored. I was deeply surprised to find this bill before us here in markup. I asked the committee if they would remove it from markup, but that request was also denied. This also [gets to] the process of how we consider bills. This bill had no legislative hearing. This is the first time that I have an opportunity to formally speak expressing my concerns. And the other reason we needed a legislative hearing is because there is a potential technical impediment to the bill that needs airing. Memorials, monuments and other commemorative works in Washington DC and its environs are governed by the Commemorative Works Act, which lays out a series of guidelines for the establishment of memorials and requires consultation with the National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission. The Commission reviewed H.R. 5457 – the identical bill [introduced] in the 114th Congress – and determined that the proposal to establish Nancy Reagan Memorial Park potentially violates several guidelines established by the CWA. First, Congressional authorization for memorials to individuals is not supposed to occur until the 25th anniversary of the death of the individual. Since space is limited and memorials should not be established without careful consideration, this provides time for reflection on the individual’s contributions. Since Mrs. Reagan passed away less than three years ago, the designation of a memorial park in her name violates the CWA. Second, the CWA requires a comprehensive evaluation of site locations to determine suitability. The commission noted that this hasn’t happened for this proposal and that the designation of this site after the Former First Lady could prevent the establishment of other memorials in the area, since CWA states that no new memorial shall encroach upon an existing memorial. So as one of my constituents wrote on ARLNow.com, I ask my colleagues to “just say no.” We cannot allow a pet project of a special interest group to override local consideration or input. Just as I respect my colleagues to know what’s best in their districts, I’d ask the same curtesy be extended. Let’s allow for public comment and local input and follow the Congressionally mandated process. Mr. Chairman, I yield back.” [After further debate] “I would humbly suggest that if we want to rename the park from Gravelly Point, that we engage the Arlington County Board, the Alexandria City Council, the jurisdictions that are there with all the constituents that are using this on a regular basis, and rename it after a vigorous public discussion about which of our many former First Ladies or just American leaders who should be honored in that way, rather than just unilaterally deciding that former First Lady Reagan – whom I admire very much – that this park should be named after her.”
01.17.2018	The following press release was sent by the Animal Welfare Institute about a letter led by Rep. Beyer and Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Grijalva to Secretary of Interior Zinke opposing the creation of a council to encourage trophy hunting. The letter was signed by 37 House Democrats, and urges the Administration to abandon its current plans to create an “International Wildlife Conservation Council” in favor of non-lethal conservation methods. *** The Animal Welfare Institute (AWI) commends 38 members of Congress for signing on to a letter to Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke requesting that the Department of Interior (DOI) not establish a council to promote trophy hunting. The International Wildlife Conservation Council, announced by DOI on November 11, aims to increase public awareness of the "benefits that result from U.S. citizens traveling to foreign nations to engage in hunting." The congressional letter, led by Representative Don Beyer (D-VA) and House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), disputes this characterization of trophy hunting and states that it is unethical, unpopular, and of questionable conservation value. “The intended goal of the International Wildlife Conservation Council is not to protect rare and vulnerable species,” said Rep. Beyer. “Rather, it is to accommodate the desires of a miniscule subset of wealthy hobbyists who find entertainment in killing endangered wildlife. The majority of Americans want to see beloved species conserved through nonlethal methods, and Secretary Zinke should prioritize those effective and humane strategies instead.” “The council would use taxpayer dollars to make it easier for President Trump’s sons and their rich big game hunter friends to kill species at risk of extinction,” Ranking Member Grijalva said. “It’s extremely disappointing and sickening that Secretary Zinke is prioritizing the interests of a small group of wealthy hobbyists over the voices of the more than 85 percent of Americans who oppose big game hunting. I strongly urge Secretary Zinke to take the potential extinction of species more seriously, and to terminate the creation of this superfluous council.” “Secretary Zinke is creating this council as a smokescreen to advance the interests of wealthy big game hunters,” said Cathy Liss, AWI president. “With the populations of so many species plummeting, this is not the time to elevate trophy hunting above activities that actually protect vulnerable wildlife. Thank you to the members of Congress who are speaking out against this disingenuous council.” Click here to view the congressional letter to Secretary Zinke. ###
01.17.2018	Today, Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA) sent a formal request to Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. Darin LaHood (R-IL) to hold a hearing on election security issues. Similar requests were made by Ms. Johnson and Mr. Beyer last year at two cybersecurity focused hearings in October and November. This request follows last Wednesday’s release of a minority staff report from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee titled, “Putin’s Asymmetric Assault on Democracy in Russia and Europe: Implications for U.S. National Security.” The staff report focused on Russian influence operations outside of the United States. However, it did not examine Russia’s interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee noted, “Furthermore, U.S. election infrastructure, electrical grids, and information systems are outside the jurisdiction of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and therefore beyond the scope of the recommendations in this report, but certainly warrant further study.” Those issues, however, are squarely within the jurisdiction of the Science Committee. “We believe it is our obligation as Members of the Science Committee to examine concerns regarding the cybersecurity of our election infrastructure as well as efforts to identify foreign covert influence operations against U.S. citizens and our democratic institutions that are likely to reemerge as a major issue in the 2018 and 2020 elections.” wrote Ms. Johnson and Mr. Beyer in the letter to the Chairmen. They continued, “We hope you will honor our request so that our Committee can fulfill its duty to examine this critical issue in a bipartisan manner.” The Minority staff of the Science Committee released a report last November that explored some of these issues. The staff report, “Old Tactics, New Tools: A Review of Russia’s Soft Cyber Influence Operations,” detailed the Soviet-era propaganda tactics and information warfare strategy Russia uses today, explored how Russian military strategists have foreshadowed the use of information as a weapon for decades, and examined new efforts to identify and confront these evolving and expanding threats.
01.08.2018	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s announcement that it would end protections for an estimated 200,000 Salvadorans in the United States, in place since 2001: “Donald Trump’s open hostility to immigrants runs against the values and history of this country,” said Rep. Beyer. “His xenophobic policies are already hurting our standing in the world, and implementation of these policies will do significant damage to our economy, and worst of all to the thousands of human lives for which he seems to have no regard. Congress must fight back against these attacks on immigrants and refugees.” Beyer is a cosponsor of the American Promise Act, which would codify Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Salvadorans and other refugees. Northern Virginia and the National Capital Region are home to a thriving community of Salvadorans who contribute significantly to the regional economy and culture. Nationally, the Center for American Progress estimates that ending Temporary Protected Status for 200,000 Salvadorans will result in over $100 billion in lost GDP over the next decade. *** El Congresista Don Beyer emitió la siguiente declaración sobre el anuncio que hizo la Administración Trump quitándole protecciones a unos estimados 200,000 Salvadoreños en los Estados Unidos, en vigencia dese 2001: “La hostilidad de Donald Trump hacia los inmigrantes corre contra los valores y la historia de este país,” dijo Beyer “Sus pólizas xenófobas están dañando nuestra posición en el mundo, y la implementación de estas pólizas harán daño significativo a nuestra economía, y lo peor de todo a miles de vidas humanas por las que parece él no tiene respeto. El Congreso tiene que luchar contra estos ataques hacia los inmigrantes y refugiados.” Beyer es un copatrocinador del American Promise Act, lo cual codificara el Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS) para los Salvadoreños y otros refugiados. El Norte de Virginia y la Región Capital Nacional es el hogar de a una comunidad próspera de Salvadoreños quienes contribuyen significativamente a la economía y cultura de la región. Nacionalmente, el Center for American Progress estima que terminando el Estatus de Protección Temporal para 200,000 Salvadoreños resultara en más de $100 billones de PIB perdidos sobre la próxima década. ###
01.04.2018	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement today in response to the Trump Administration's announcement that it would significantly expand leases for offshore drilling off all US coasts. "The Trump Administration's decision to radically expand offshore drilling to nearly all US waters is yet another giveaway to the oil and gas industry, made over the objections of coastal communities, military leaders, and environmental organizations," said Rep. Beyer. "Local, state, and federal leaders from both parties have been vocal in their opposition to this move. When taken with last week's decision to reverse safety and enforcement rules put in place after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster, Trump is exposing our nation's coastal communities and environment to unacceptably high risks." Rep. Beyer has been a fierce critic on the House Committee on Natural Resources of Trump's moves to expand drilling off America's coastlines. He has led bipartisan opposition to oil and gas exploration in the Atlantic Ocean, citing environmental consequences and opposition from coastal communities and military leaders.
12.20.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Rob Wittman (R-VA) today introduced bipartisan legislation to protect federal employees’ pay in the event of a government shutdown. The Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Act would guarantee back pay for all furloughed workers if Congress and the White House are unable to come to a funding agreement. “We absolutely do not want to see a shutdown of the federal government, but if it comes we must act to protect federal workers from the consequences,” said Rep. Beyer. “If the government shuts down due to Congress’ failure to pass a budget, the effects on civil servants, who need to support their families, would be disastrous without this bill. We cannot allow that to happen.” A shutdown would temporarily suspend paychecks for federal employees, and retroactive pay for federal workers must be approved by Congress. The Beyer-Wittman legislation would guarantee that no federal employees would lose pay if a government shutdown occurs. "Federal employees should not suffer because Congress refuses to end its govern by crisis mentality," Rep. Wittman said. "Preparing the retroactive pay legislation sends a signal to our federal workers that they won't be forgotten in the unfortunate event of a shutdown. While this legislation minimizes the impacts of funding uncertainty, my focus remains on returning Congress to a regular schedule of budgeting and passing appropriations bills." Together the two Virginia Congressmen represent nearly 120,000 federal employees. “The National Treasury Employees Union applauds Rep. Beyer and Rep. Wittman for introducing this legislation,” said NTEU National President Tony Reardon. “They recognize that frontline federal employees should not lose pay in the event of a shutdown of the federal government. These employees do not control the funding of the federal government and should not suffer when that funding runs out. I hope we do not get to the shutdown stage but I support this effort to protect the federal workforce.” Funding for the federal government is set to expire at midnight on Friday, December 22. "AFGE would like to thank Congressman Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Wittman (R-VA) for introducing the ‘Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,’” said American Federation of Government Employees National President J. David Cox. “Federal employees are hardworking public servants who are dedicated to providing quality public services. Federal employees and their families should not be forced to go without pay when they are not allowed to do their jobs because Congress cannot pass a funding measure. Too many Americans—veterans, seniors, and other hardworking people rely on services provided by the federal government. In a government shutdown, it is the American people who pay the price.” In addition to Reps. Beyer and Wittman, the bill has 25 bipartisan cosponsors. Text of the legislation can be viewed here.
12.19.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 1, the GOP bill to cut taxes for the wealthy: “One month ago, when the House passed an early version of this bill, I asked how any of my colleagues could vote for legislation “that will raise taxes on millions of middle class Americans in order to fund tax cuts for the wealthy, and yet still manages to explode the deficit?” Today the Republican majority somehow passed an even worse bill. The tax bill just passed by the House would raise taxes on 86 million households over the next decade, according to a nonpartisan estimate, while 83 percent of the benefits go to the wealthiest 1 percent. They specifically lowered rates for the highest bracket and exempted multi-millionaires from the estate tax, while making the meager cuts for the middle class temporary. They have also included attacks on the Affordable Care Act which will kick an estimated 13 million Americans off their health insurance and lead to higher premiums for working families. At its core, this bill is an immoral redistribution of wealth towards the richest among us at a cost of trillions of dollars, and I believe that those who voted for this monstrosity will be held accountable.” The tax bill, H.R. 1, passed today over bipartisan opposition without receiving a single Democratic vote. Congress’ budgetary scorekeeper, the Congressional Budget Office, estimated that its effective repeal of a key piece of the Affordable Care Act will lead to 13 million more uninsured Americans by 2027. The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimated that the legislation will lead to tax increases on 86 million households by 2027 while giving 83 percent of its cuts to the wealthiest 1 percent of the country.
12.12.2017	Reps. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA), co-chairs of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus, today issued the following statement on their introduction of a resolution celebrating the second anniversary of the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement: “Two years after the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement, climate change remains a huge threat to the planet and the human race, but Donald Trump isn’t taking that threat seriously. The Paris Climate Agreement represents the best opportunity for the global community to prevent climate change’s devastating impacts on our communities, our economies, and our environment. This anniversary is a stark reminder of the direction the Trump Administration has chosen: a path abandoned, leadership abdicated, and work unfinished. “We cannot let one politically-motivated decision rooted in ignorance detour us from the task at hand. Every other country in the world has indicated their support for the Paris Agreement, and we are seeing tremendous strides being made on the local and state levels to reduce carbon pollution and enhance climate resiliency. On the two-year anniversary of this monumental accord, the Safe Climate Caucus will continue pushing for action on climate.” The resolution, cosponsored by 22 members of the Safe Climate Caucus, urges the Trump Administration not to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. It also supports global efforts to keep warming under 2 degrees Celsius, efforts to protect vulnerable populations from the impacts of climate change, and policies at the Federal, State, and local level that promote reductions in carbon pollution. Text of the resolution can be viewed here.
12.11.2017	Reps. Don Beyer (VA), Debbie Dingell (MI), and Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ) today led 104 House Democrats in a letter to House Leadership urging the removal of harmful provisions attached to the final spending legislation for FY 18 that would weaken the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The Representatives wrote in response to the FY 18 Interior/EPA bill, passed out of the Appropriations Committee, which contained several riders attacking endangered species conservation and removing protections for imperiled species, including wolves and sage grouse. The Representatives wrote: “We write to express our great concern over a number of harmful provisions in H.R. 3354 – the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018 (“Make America Secure and Prosperous Act, 2018”) – that would undermine endangered species conservation and threaten one of our country’s most important wildlife conservation laws – the Endangered Species Act. We urge you to ensure that these controversial and far-reaching provisions are not included in final spending legislation for FY 2018. “We urge you to use your positions of leadership to uphold our nation’s legacy of protecting our natural heritage for future generations of Americans and reject the inclusion of any of these attacks on the Endangered Species Act and wildlife in any final bill to fund the federal government.” The Representatives went on to note that one amendment in the legislation would void federal protections for bears and wolves on national preserves in Alaska. This would weaken the National Park Service’s ability to prevent unsportsmanlike hunting practices – such as baiting, trapping, and “denning” – on lands under its own jurisdiction. A signed copy of the letter is available here, and full text follows below. Rep. Beyer has been a vocal defender of wildlife and endangered species since he was elected to the House of Representatives, where he serves on the Natural Resources Committee, and has introduced legislation to protect marine life and biodiversity. Dear Speaker Ryan and Minority Leader Pelosi: We write to express our great concern over a number of harmful provisions in H.R. 3354 – the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2018 (“Make America Secure and Prosperous Act, 2018”) – that would undermine endangered species conservation and threaten one of our country’s most important wildlife conservation laws – the Endangered Species Act. We urge you to ensure that these controversial and far-reaching provisions are not included in final spending legislation for FY 2018. The appropriations process has become a perennial magnet for provisions and amendments that seek to make significant changes to U.S. environmental policies. Rather than taking their policy proposals to the appropriate authorizing committees, many members have instead opted to insert them into appropriations bills, often without full consideration by Congress. These misguided efforts weigh down the important process to fund the federal government. We object to these policy provisions – especially those provisions that threaten American’s air, water, wildlife, and public lands. This letter focuses on the seven provisions currently in H.R. 3354 aimed at weakening the Endangered Species Act – a law that continues to serve as our nation’s most effective law in protecting wildlife in danger of extinction. We also strongly oppose a provision that would block implementation of critical rules developed by the National Park Service to regulate non-subsistence hunting in Alaska national preserves. When Congress passed the Endangered Species Act with near-unanimous consent, species were struggling to survive in the face of unmitigated human-caused threats to their existence. Since the Endangered Species Act was enacted, many of these species have rebounded over the course of just a few decades, including the bald eagle, the brown pelican and the humpback whale. Ninety-nine percent of species that have been listed under the Endangered Species Act have escaped the final fate of extinction, and many are once again thriving. We have a moral responsibility to continue to be good stewards of our environment and protect our natural resources for future generations. That translates into maintaining a strong federal Endangered Species Act that relies on sound science to guide decision-making. Polling shows that 90 percent of American voters support the Endangered Species Act and 71 percent believe scientists should make decisions about how to protect imperiled species, not politicians. Nevertheless, the underlying FY 2018 Interior/EPA bill that passed out of the Appropriations Committee contained three riders that undermine endangered species conservation by singling out certain imperiled species and denying them the protections of the Endangered Species Act. One would continue for a fourth year a rider that prevents the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) from taking any steps to list the sage-grouse under the Endangered Species Act. In September 2015, FWS determined that the greater sage-grouse was not warranted for listing under the Endangered Species Act, citing an unprecedented landscape-scale planning process as reducing threats to sage grouse - plans that will almost certainly be weakened under a new process initiated by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. This amendment would prevent an ESA listing for the sage-grouse, even if it declines closer to extinction. Another would block Endangered Species Act protections for wolves in the Midwest, reaffirm a court decision that delisted wolves in Wyoming, and obstruct citizens’ ability to go to court to challenge these delistings. Still another provision would go so far as to defund recovery measures for gray wolves throughout the entire continental United States, even though wolves currently inhabit only 15 percent of their historic range. This same provision would also block all spending on recovery efforts for the Mexican gray wolves, even though there are just 113 individual animals left in the United States and 35 in Mexico. The job of restoring wolves to still-suitable habitat across the United States – as the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has done for other wide-ranging species like the bald eagle – is far from done. The bill only got worse on the floor, when 3 additional riders that would undermine the Endangered Species Act and harm threatened and endangered species conservation were added to the bill. Finally, Representative Don Young added an amendment that would void a federal rule conserving bears and wolves on national preserves in Alaska. If this language is enacted, the National Park Service would not be able to prevent unsportsmanlike hunting practices on lands under its own jurisdiction, including spotlighting denning bears and cubs as they hibernate. We urge you to use your positions of leadership to uphold our nation’s legacy of protecting our natural heritage for future generations of Americans and reject the inclusion of any of these attacks on the Endangered Species Act and wildlife in any final bill to fund the federal government. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely,
12.01.2017	U.S. Reps. Don Beyer and Gerry Connolly (both D-VA) and Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), along with Virginia’s two Senators Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine, today announced that after years of effort by the Senators and House members, the National Park Service (NPS) has approved $227 million to initiate a long-awaited contract to fully repair and rehabilitate Arlington Memorial Bridge. The 85-year-old bridge, owned and maintained by NPS, is a vital daily route connecting Arlington, Virginia and the District of Columbia. The Virginia and D.C. delegations, with support of D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser, played a decisive role in successfully advocating for a federal FASTLANE project grant, as well as secured additional appropriations to launch the Memorial Bridge rehabilitation project in January. Construction will begin in the fall of 2018, with the project being completed in 2021, giving the bridge a lifespan of an additional 85 to 100 years. During construction, at least three lanes of traffic will remain open at all times to allow for continued use of the span. Identifying the remaining required funds allows the NPS to save $35 million in costs by completing the project in one phase rather than two, and will allow the project to be finished 18 months sooner than previously estimated. “After years of work to secure funding to fix Arlington Memorial Bridge, today’s announcement gives us hope that the bridge will remain safe and serviceable into the 22nd century,” Rep. Beyer said. “Our tour of the bridge and press conference in 2015 crystalized the dire need for this funding. Since then I have worked together with my colleagues in Congress, leaders from Virginia and the District, and two Administrations to secure the money for these structural repairs. This truly is great news, and I thank everyone whose efforts brought us here.” Rep. Beyer hosted a press conference next to Memorial Bridge in 2015 with the regional delegation and members of President Obama’s Cabinet to call attention to the urgent need for funding to repair key surface infrastructure. He has been a consistent advocate since taking office for funds to fix the bridge, over which thousands of his Northern Virginia constituents commute every day. In 2016 he and his colleagues in Congress supported an application for a grant which successfully secured $90 million to fund the first round of repairs. “It is hard to overstate the importance of this progress on a key transportation project for this region,” Sen. Warner said. “It required the combined efforts of all of us from the national capital region – those of us serving in both houses of Congress, as well as the District government, the National Park Service, and the U.S. Transportation Department. These partnerships allowed the Park Service to design an innovative project that will save money and time for the region’s commuters and visitors.” “Arlington Memorial Bridge is among the nation’s most deteriorated bridges, and I’m extremely proud that after years of hard work, the National Park Service has committed full funding for rehabilitation of the bridge. This is a huge win for Northern Virginia commuters, as well as visitors to the nation’s capital,” Sen. Kaine said. “As we celebrate this good news, we should also redouble our efforts to pass a major infrastructure bill so other aging bridges don’t degrade to such a terrible condition in the first place.” "This is a victory for Northern Virginia commuters and the effort to improve our nation’s ailing infrastructure,” Rep. Connolly said. “I am pleased the National Park Service stepped up to the plate to address this uniquely federal transportation challenge. Communities across the country deserve this kind of good news about their old and failing infrastructure.” “As Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, I could not be more delighted that the National Park Service has secured full funding to repair a critical priority, the iconic Memorial Bridge, with significant cost and time savings,” Rep. Norton said. “When I visited the bridge before construction, I saw firsthand how it was barely standing, and why traffic has to be rerouted, bringing even more traffic congestion on both sides of the river. With full funding rather than the phased dollars we already secured, we can finally break ground.” The Memorial Bridge, which carries 68,000 vehicles daily between Washington, D.C. and Arlington, Va., was originally opened in 1932 with a 75-year design life. It is now structurally deficient, having never undergone a major rehabilitation. As a result a 10-ton load limit remains in effect, and large vehicles, including trucks and buses, are prohibited from crossing. Without a major overhaul, it has been expected that the Bridge would have to be closed to vehicular traffic beginning in 2021. However, NPS has an annual budget of just $20 million for transportation projects across all its assets in the National Capital Region. The Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments has previously estimated that closing the Memorial Bridge could cost local governments $75 million per year in transportation outlays alone. Moreover, transit studies suggest that traffic from the bridge would spill over onto other area bridges, particularly the 14th Street Bridge and Roosevelt Bridge, further exacerbating congested roadways in Northern Virginia and Washington, DC. Last year, the region’s congressional delegation was instrumental in securing $90 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation for Phase 1 of the reconstruction of the Arlington Memorial Bridge, with NPS providing an additional $60 million in matching funds. At the time, NPS estimated that more than $100 million in additional funding would be needed in order to bring the Memorial Bridge into a state of good repair. Due to years of chronic underfunding, NPS has been forced to defer billions of dollars in necessary maintenance on transportation infrastructure such as Memorial Bridge, as well as other facilities it operates, like visitor centers, rest stops, trails and campgrounds. In March, Sen. Warner and Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH) announced legislation, the National Park Service Legacy Act, to address the maintenance backlog at the National Park Service, which is currently more than $11 billion, and Sen. Kaine is one of a dozen bipartisan co-sponsors who have signed on to support the effort.
11.30.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today led 20 House Democrats in seeking answers from Senior White House Advisor Stephen Miller about his knowledge of Russian meetings and contacts during the 2016 presidential campaign. Their inquiry came after a series of news reports revealed that Miller, then a senior aide on Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, was alerted to Russian offers of assistance to that campaign by his subordinate George Papadopoulos, who later pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about Russian meetings and contacts. The Representatives wrote: “We write with questions about your role in attempts to coordinate action between the Trump campaign and Russian government officials or operatives during the 2016 presidential election. These questions arise from recent admissions of Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty earlier this year to lying to the FBI about his meetings and contacts with Russian government officials… “…We also share grave concerns about any official in the White House with a position of influence over national security who knew about, or even participated in, covert arrangements designed to help a foreign adversary of the United States subvert our democratic elections processes.” The Representatives went on to note that Miller remains a senior figure in the Trump White House with a security clearance and access to sensitive classified information. They asked Miller to outline any knowledge he had of Russian offers of assistance to the Trump campaign, and steps that he took after learning of such offers, including notification of his superiors. They also asked whether Miller properly disclosed all meetings and contacts with Russian officials on his Standard Form 86 (SF-86). Rep. Beyer’s April letter calling for suspension of Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner’s security clearance pending investigation of myriad omissions on his SF-86 was followed by a June letter seeking revocation of that clearance. He also led Democrats in raising concerns about Senior White House Advisor Ivanka Trump’s security clearance in a July letter to the FBI, and called for revocation of her clearance in October after massive discrepancies in her ethics disclosures emerged. The letter was signed by Democratic Representatives Jerrold Nadler (NY), Ted Lieu (CA), Jamie Raskin (MD), Peter Welch (VT), Zoe Lofgren (CA), Keith Ellison (MN), Pramila Jayapal (WA), Marcy Kaptur (OH), Debbie Wasserman-Shultz (FL), Nydia Velazquez (NY), Dina Titus (NV), Lloyd Doggett (TX), Yvette Clarke (NY), Steve Cohen (TN), Tim Walz (MN), Grace Napolitano (CA), Ruben Gallego (AZ), Betty McCollum (MN), Bonnie Watson-Coleman (NJ), and Donald Payne Jr. (NJ). Text of the letter follows below. Stephen Miller Senior Advisor to the President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC, 20500 Dear Mr. Miller: We write with questions about your role in attempts to coordinate action between the Trump campaign and Russian government officials or operatives during the 2016 presidential election. These questions arise from recent admissions of Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos, who pleaded guilty earlier this year to lying to the FBI about his meetings and contacts with Russian government officials. Mr. Papadopoulos attested in court filings that he had written to a “senior policy adviser” on the Trump campaign that then-candidate Donald Trump had been extended an “open invitation” from Vladimir Putin to visit Russia. The New York Times recently identified you as that senior policy adviser. Mr. Papadopoulos also attested in court documents that he met with a Maltese professor, Joseph Mifsud, who told him that the Russians had “dirt” on Hillary Clinton, which he specified to mean “thousands of e-mails.” This exchange occurred weeks after the initial hack of Clinton campaign e-mails, which were later published by Wikileaks, e-mails which the CIA assessed were provided to Wikileaks by the Russian government. Unlike Mr. Papadopoulos and many of the other Trump campaign officials whose names have been linked to this investigation, you now serve in the White House as a member of the President’s senior staff, with a security clearance and ongoing access to vital US intelligence. We therefore seek your prompt answers to the following questions: 1. Were you aware that George Papadopoulos had received credible offers of assistance, on behalf of the Trump campaign, from the Russian government? When did you learn of them, and what actions did you take to notify your superiors in the Trump campaign? 2. Did you encourage Papadopoulous’ attempts to coordinate information sharing between the Kremlin and the Trump campaign, with regard to Clinton campaign emails or any other matter? 3. Did you properly disclose any offer of assistance, meeting, or other relationship with any Russian officials into which you entered—either prior to or during the 2016 presidential campaign—on your Standard Form 86 when you applied for a security clearance during the transition period? We respect the investigation being conducted by Special Counsel Robert Mueller and for the multiple investigations currently underway in House and Senate committees. We also share grave concerns about any official in the White House with a position of influence over national security who knew about, or even participated in, covert arrangements designed to help a foreign adversary of the United States subvert our democratic elections processes. Repeated failures by your White House colleague, Jared Kushner, and former employer, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, to properly disclose their meetings and contacts with Russian officials have only increased the need for vigorous oversight into ethics and security disclosures by other senior officials in this Administration. We thank you for your timely attention to this critical matter. Sincerely,
11.21.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today condemned the decision by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to end the Obama-era policy known as “net neutrality.” The new proposal announced by Trump appointees to the FCC would empower internet service providers to limit or charge American consumers more for different kinds of internet content. “By ending net neutrality the FCC and the Trump Administration are siding with telecom giants against internet freedom,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “This move hurts people across the country who need and deserve consumer-friendly internet regulations. It also severely harms small businesses, start-ups, and entrepreneurs who depend on a free and open internet to grow their businesses.” The FCC will vote on the proposal to end net neutrality on December 14.
11.16.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement today after the passage of the Republican tax bill, H.R. 1, in the House: “I am adamantly opposed to the House Republican tax bill, H.R.1. The bill will raise taxes on millions of middle class Americans in order to fund tax cuts for the wealthy, and yet still manages to explode the deficit. We have an opportunity to enact tax reform focused on the prosperity of hard working Americans, which simplifies the tax code and is fiscally responsible. Unfortunately the GOP has opted for a bill in which right-wing ideology and magical thinking trump common sense and sound economic policy. “The fiscal irresponsibility of this bill will hamstring efforts to invest in our future, to fix our infrastructure and to educate a twenty-first century workforce. It will lead to cuts to Medicare and other programs that are critical to millions of Americans. The bill contains giveaways for heirs of massive estates and the idle rich, yet punishes students and the very ill. How is that fair? How does that make sense? How could any Member of Congress vote for this?” The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimates that by 2027 the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans would receive half of the total tax benefit, while nearly a quarter of American households see a tax increase. The bill passed with bipartisan opposition, and the final vote was 227-205.
11.14.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today called for swift House passage of his bill, the NO HATE Act, after the FBI released hate crime statistics for 2016, which showed a rise in bias crimes in the United States for the second consecutive year. The legislation, sponsored in the Senate by Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), would give law enforcement across the country additional tools to track and fight hate crimes. “The FBI statistics released this week show another disturbing rise in hate crimes in the United States, a trend which Congress must address with swift passage of the NO HATE Act,” said Rep. Beyer. “Following two years in a row of rising hate crimes, 2017 has seen horrific incidents of hate-fueled violence in Kansas, Oregon, the University of Maryland, Charlottesville, Virginia, and elsewhere. The problem of hate in this country is growing, urgent, and requires prompt action from Congress.” The NO HATE Act, which has 59 cosponsors in the House and 17 in the Senate, would help combat the recent surge in hate crimes by: Helping Victims Seek Justice in the Courts: This law will establish a federal private right of action for hate crimes, offering victims of hate crimes the option to fight for remedies in civil court, and ensuring that everyone—even in states without hate crime laws on the books—can have his or her day in court. Although Connecticut has a state private right of action, most states do not. Improving Reporting of Hate Crimes: This law will improve reporting of hate crimes by supporting the implementation of and training for NIBRS, the latest crime reporting standard, in law enforcement agencies without it. This will allow law enforcement agencies to record and report detailed information about crimes, including hate crimes, to the FBI. Between 2009 and 2015, 17 percent of all law enforcement agencies failed to file a single hate crimes report, and in some states, a majority of law enforcement agencies failed to file a single hate crime report over the same period. Helping law enforcement agencies recognize and report detailed information on hate crimes and report that data to the FBI will help establish a clear picture of the threats that vulnerable communities are facing across the country. Establishing Hate Crime Hotlines: This law will provide grants for states to establish and run hate crime hotlines, to record information about hate crimes, and to redirect victims and witnesses to law enforcement and local support services as needed. This will make sure that hate crimes don’t go unreported and victims get the help that they need. New York and Maryland established hate crime hotlines in November. Rehabilitating Perpetrators of Hate Crimes through Education and Community Service: This law will allow for judges to require individuals convicted under federal hate crime laws to undergo community service or education centered on the community targeted by the crime. Text of the bill is available here.
11.02.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) led a letter to Speaker Ryan highlighting how the lack of action to fund cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments is hurting small business owners and self-employed individuals who are being disproportionately impacted by the President’s decision to suspend CSR payments, the latest in a series of measures he has taken which health insurers have cited as a primary cause of rising health insurance premiums. The Representatives wrote: “We are deeply concerned about the President’s decision to end the cost-sharing reductions (CSRs) and the devastating financial impact it will have on small businesses, working families, and the innovator economy….absent a subsequent appropriation of funds or other action by Congress…[it] will primarily hurt millions of middle-class individuals, like the small businesses and self-employed individuals in our districts, who earn too much to qualify for premium assistance and will bear the full brunt of any rate increase.” The Representatives pointed to the hardship that uncertainty around unfulfilled CSR payments is inflicting on the innovator economy in the absence of action by Republican leaders. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projects that most insurance commissioners would allow large premium increases in the marketplaces as a result of failure to fund CSR payments. A study by the Brookings Institution cited uncertainty over CSR payments as one of the top threats to stability in the individual market, which the US Treasury Department estimates is in large part composed of small business owners and the self-employed. Text of the letter follows, and a signed copy is available here. The Honorable Paul Ryan Office of the Speaker H-232 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: We are deeply concerned about the President’s decision to end the cost-sharing reductions (CSRs) and the devastating financial impact it will have on small businesses, working families, and the innovator economy. We ask that you commit to fund the CSRs and eliminate this barrier to innovation. As you know, CSRs make health insurance more affordable by reducing cost sharing and out-of-pocket expenses like co-payments and deductibles in the non-group or individual market. In 2016, CSRs alleviated the cost of medical expenses for over 6.4 million enrollees. Now that President Trump has ended the Administration’s payment of the CSRs, absent a subsequent appropriation of funds or other action by Congress, we could see devastating impacts on our innovator economy. We know that failure to fund CSRs will drive up premiums as insurers cover the cost and that some insurers will be forced out of the non-group market as a result. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) anticipate that most insurance commissioners would permit insurers to substantially increase premiums in the marketplaces. This will primarily hurt millions of middle-class individuals, like the small businesses and self-employed individuals in our districts, who earn too much to qualify for premium assistance and will bear the full brunt of any rate increase. According to the Brookings Institution, uncertainty about these payments is perhaps the biggest threat to stability in the individual market. CBO and the JCT also estimate that this action also increases the federal deficit, on net, by $194 billion from 2017 through 2026. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, roughly one in five non-group marketplace consumers are small business owners or self-employed individuals. The Treasury Department identified non-group marketplace coverage as an important source of health insurance coverage for small business owners and the self-employed, noting that it provides insurance for a large share of self-employed individuals, particularly for middle-income workers. The UC Berkeley Center for Labor Research and Education highlights how the CSR eligible plans enabled small business owners and self-employed individuals to more easily obtain affordable health insurance and pursue entrepreneurial goals, also indicating that options like eliminating CSRs would disproportionately hurt self-employed and small businesses of less than 50 employees. We are hearing from entrepreneurs, small business owners, and self-employed individuals who are being disproportionately impacted by the President’s decision. We ask that you support our innovator economy and mitigate this financial burden by fulfilling cost sharing reduction payments. Sincerely,
10.24.2017	Congressman Don Beyer and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney hosted experts on the path to gender parity in corporate leadership for a hearing today. Gender diversity experts from Catalyst, the 30 Percent Club, Northrop Grumman, and Paradigm for Parity testified on the critical need to increase gender diversity in America’s corporate boardrooms. “Research consistently shows that companies with gender balanced leadership do better, contribute more to our GDP, and provide smarter, safer working environments,” said Rep. Beyer. “Today’s witnesses are experts at increasing and harnessing the power of gender diverse corporate leadership. There is much that Congress could do to boost our economic growth and private sector success by encouraging businesses to eliminate gender disparities in corporate leadership, and I will continue to make that work a major priority.” “Despite much progress, women still face too many barriers to the road to success and equality. One of the key ways to address this problem, is getting more women in corporate leadership positions. Leaders set the tone, and they set the priorities,” said Rep. Maloney. “That is why I’m so honored to co-host this forum with Congressman Beyer, who’s been focused on getting more women into corporate leadership positions for years. This is a key conversation that we need to keep having until we see real change, like the passage of our Gender Diversity in Corporate Leadership Act.” Women comprise 47 percent of the labor force, yet account for only 20 percent of corporate board seats for S&P 500 companies, according to the 2016 Missing Pieces Report by the Alliance for Board Diversity and Deloitte. For women of color, this figure stands at just four percent. “Despite a compelling business case for more women in corporate leadership, progress in the last 20 years has been notably sluggish. Catalyst’s research shows that current boards do not reflect the diversity of our country, as women hold only 21.2 percent of all S&P 500 board seats and women of color hold 3.8 percent of Fortune 500 board seats. The statistics don’t get any better for senior leadership positions. Women hold only 5.2 percent of the CEO positions in the S&P 500 and make up only 11 percent of the Top Earners. And once again, the numbers are even worse for women of color. The dialogue must change from focusing on why we need more women at the table, to how we can accelerate progress,” said Catalyst Vice President of Public Affairs Serena Fong. “A board of directors that fails to consider candidates beyond their usual network of “pale, male and stale” peers denies their organization the greater cognitive diversity and more effective risk mitigation associated with gender-diverse boards. It’s a matter of good corporate governance,” said Kiersten Barnet from the 30 Percent Club. Kymberlee Dwinell, Director of Diversity and Inclusion at Northrop Grumman said, “Thank you Congressman Beyer and Congresswoman Maloney for organizing today’s important Forum on Gender Parity. Northrop Grumman recognizes that diverse teams are not only essential to developing the most innovative and effective solutions, but they are also vital to strengthening our national and economic security. Diversity is truly a strategic asset. A respect for diversity and an inclusive work environment are not just important values, but essential to long- term success. I am honored to be here today representing Northrop Grumman. I am especially proud of our company’s efforts to support women while creating a workplace that empowers us to thrive and lead!” “Gender parity is an essential investment for any business. Having people with diverse backgrounds and experiences in the room – whether it’s in the c-suite or in a conference room – gets the best results. And Paradigm for Parity is pleased to give companies an actionable roadmap to advance women and close the gap,” added Candace Duncan, a Founding Member of Paradigm for Parity and Retired Managing Partner at KPMG. The percentage of women in corporate leadership crawls upwards by roughly one percent annually, an unacceptably slow rate for achieving parity or even for achieving the oft-cited goal of 30 percent. This is despite numerous reports that have independently found that gender diversity at senior levels of corporate governance enhance that company’s performance. A fact sheet prepared for the forum is available here, and opening statements are available as well: [Maloney] [Beyer] [Fong] [Barnet] [Dwinell] [Duncan].
10.23.2017	Congressman Don Beyer and Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney will host experts on the path to gender parity in corporate leadership for a field hearing on Tuesday, October 24th in Longworth House Office Building. WHAT: Forum on Gender Parity in Corporate Leadership WHEN: October 24, 2017 at 3:00 to 4:30 PM WHERE: Longworth House Office Building Room 1539 WHO: Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) Serena Fong, Catalyst Kiersten Barnet, 30 Percent Club Kymberlee Dwinell, Northrop Grumman Candace Duncan, Paradigm for Parity founding member Women comprise 47 percent of the labor force, yet account for only 20 percent of corporate board seats for S&P 500 companies, according to the 2016 Missing Pieces Report by the Alliance for Board Diversity and Deloitte. For women of color, this figure stands at just four percent. This number inches upward at the rate of roughly one percent annually, an unacceptably slow rate for achieving parity or even for achieving the oft-cited goal of 30 percent. This is despite numerous reports that have independently found that gender diversity at senior levels of corporate governance enhance that company’s performance.
10.13.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement following Donald Trump’s announcement that he would decertify Iranian compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, also known as the Iran Nuclear Deal: “The President’s decision to decertify Iranian compliance with the JCPOA, with no basis in fact, is shortsighted and foolhardy and will only serve to further destabilize the Middle East and the Korean Peninsula. General Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff, the IAEA, and our European partners all maintain that Iran is in compliance with the nuclear agreement. Decertification undermines US credibility as a negotiating partner, is a slap in the face to our allies, and threatens a carefully crafted international agreement. Based on both the President’s public statements and multiple press reports, a critical foreign policy decision appears to have been made, not because it is in the interest of American national security, but in order to mollify the whims of our volatile President. Temper tantrums are not a substitute for careful international diplomacy. Now it is incumbent upon Congress to do no further harm. We must ensure that the JCPOA, our best chance to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran, remains in force.” Beyer served from 2009-2013 as US Ambassador to Switzerland, which is the “protecting power” for diplomatic discussions between Iran and the United States, which have not had formalized diplomatic relations since 1980. He was a vocal supporter of the JCPOA during his first term in the House, where he worked with the Obama Administration to build Congressional support for the agreement.
10.12.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement today on Donald Trump’s executive order targeting the Affordable Care Act: “Bipartisan opposition sank attempts to yank healthcare coverage from millions, so Donald Trump is now attempting to go around Congress to sabotage the Affordable Care Act through executive order. His action today would allow anemic health plans. These plans will undercut coverage of preexisting conditions, as well as protections of state health insurance markets. Finally, they will make health insurance in the individual marketplace more costly. Today’s executive action will hurt those who are self-employed, undercutting the very entrepreneurs and innovators we want to encourage, and making it harder for many to retire. Insurers have warned that this move could send individual markets into chaos, and leading healthcare experts have warned that it could send health insurance exchanges into a death spiral. The country wants Trump and Congressional Republicans to stop sabotaging their healthcare and work in a bipartisan way to make things better. They should listen.” The Government Accountability Office previously issued a report which found that multiple employer welfare arrangements, which Trump’s order would deregulate, led to increased problems, “failed to comply with state insurance laws, and some violated criminal statutes.”
10.12.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement today after voting in favor of final passage of the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, which provides increased funding to disaster recovery programs: “I voted for this aid package to send support to Americans hit by natural disasters, but this bill represents the bare minimum that Congress can do to help, particularly with respect to Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands,” said Rep. Beyer. “Following Donald Trump’s threat to abandon Puerto Rico in the midst of a humanitarian crisis, Congress should guarantee its full support to Americans suffering in the wake of natural disasters. Federal emergency management must not leave Puerto Rico or the US Virgin Islands until it has restored electricity and access to clean, potable water for everyone.” The aid package, which passed with significant bipartisan support, contains $18.7 billion in funding for the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund, including $4.9 billion to help fund recovery efforts in Puerto Rico, as well as $676.6 million for fighting wildfires and $16 billion in debt forgiveness for the National Flood Insurance Program in order to pay claims for Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria.
10.11.2017	Reps. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA), co-chairs of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus, issued the following statement today on EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s proposed rule to repeal the Clean Power Plan: “Climate change is one of the gravest threats facing the human race in the 21st century. Scientists have carefully and accurately described the causes of climate change, predicted its consequences, and offered solutions. The Clean Power Plan represents a big step in the direction of confronting the dangers of climate change, and it has the added benefit of driving the creation of our clean energy sector, with hundreds of thousands of jobs and a big boost for local economies across the country. “Turning our back on this progress by ending the Clean Power Plan is dangerous, it will hurt our economy, and it will further damage our reputation around the world. American leadership is urgently needed now, and we cannot ignore or pretend our way out of this crisis. We must stand up, we must fight for future generations, and we must act on climate.” The Clean Power Plan was an Obama Administration policy which sought to reduce the United States’ contributions to climate change. It was proposed by EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy in June of 2014, and finalized in August of 2015.
10.05.2017	Today, Reps. Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Don Beyer (D-VA) sent a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn calling on him to immediately revoke the security clearances of White House officials Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner. The appeal comes after multiple reports demonstrating Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner’s brazen disregard for ethics and their apparent intention to skirt good governance rules. Reports showed their flagrant hypocrisy, having used private emails to hide their correspondence from investigators. They also repeatedly missed deadlines for reporting financial assets to the Office of Government Ethics. Beyond that, Ms. Trump was reportedly close to being indicted for real estate fraud in 2012 but avoided prosecution thanks to a dubious meeting between Donald Trump’s lawyer and the New York District Attorney. This behavior makes them unfit to hold security clearances. In the letter, Mr. Lieu and Mr. Beyer write: “These new revelations, along with the ongoing White House probe of Ms. Trump’s private email use, have compromised Ms. Trump’s integrity and credibility. We are requesting that the White House immediately revoke her security clearance pending an investigation into her actions… …Finally, in June we requested the removal of Mr. Kushner’s security clearance based upon the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s probe into Mr. Kushner’s communications with Russian officials, but have seen no action on this matter. In light of the recent developments relating to both Mr. Kushner’s e-mail accounts and his financial disclosure statements, we would like to reiterate our request that you immediately revoke his security clearance.” Text of the letter follows, and a signed copy is available here. The Honorable Don McGahn Counsel to the President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. McGahn: Recent press investigations highlight severe credibility issues with Ivanka Trump, a White House official, close advisor, and daughter to the President. Reports indicate that Ms. Trump used at least two, and possibly three, private email accounts for official White House business.[1] Under scrutiny from investigators, Ms. Trump and her husband Jared Kushner then re-routed their email accounts to Trump Organization computers in an apparent attempt to hide their emails.[2] The White House is conducting an investigation into the disturbing actions of Ms. Trump, Mr. Kushner, and others.[3] Further, new press reports have also revealed that Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump were both fined for missing their deadlines to submit financial disclosure reports (OGE 278-T forms) required by the Office of Government Ethics.[4] This was in fact Mr. Kushner’s second time being fined for tardiness in disclosing his assets. Most concerning, Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump’s financial disclosures contained significant discrepancies between their joint assets – some values listed are hundreds of thousands of dollars apart. Notably, the OGE 278-T form’s instructions explicitly state that any knowing and willful falsification of information required may subject the reporting party to criminal prosecution. In addition to possibly violating federal laws and regulations, according to recent press, Ms. Trump was nearly indicted for real estate fraud related to the Trump SoHo in 2012.[5] These reports state that prosecutors at the Manhattan District Attorney’s office were set to indict Ms. Trump until the District Attorney overruled them following a meeting with Donald Trump’s attorney. These new revelations, along with the ongoing White House probe of Ms. Trump’s private email use, have compromised Ms. Trump’s integrity and credibility. We are requesting that the White House immediately revoke her security clearance pending an investigation into her actions. Finally, in June we requested the removal of Mr. Kushner’s security clearance based upon the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s probe into Mr. Kushner’s communications with Russian officials, but have seen no action on this matter.[6] In light of the recent developments relating to both Mr. Kushner’s e-mail accounts and his financial disclosure statements, we would like to reiterate our request that you immediately revoke his security clearance. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter. Sincerely, ### [1] Jeremy Diamond, “Report: Ivanka Trump, Kushner used third email account for White House business,’ CNN, Tuesday, Oct 3, 2017. [2] Brad Heath, “Jared Kushner’s personal email re-routed to Trump Organization computers amid public scrutiny,” USA Today, Oct 3, 2017. [3] Josh Dawson and Andrea Peterson, “White House launches probe of private email accounts,” POLITICO, September 28, 2017. [4] Anita Kumar and Ben Wieder, “Jared Kushner fined again for late ethics form, Ivanka Trump fined too,” McClatchy DC, Oct 3, 2017. [5] Andrea Bernstein et al., “How Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump, Jr., avoided a criminal indictment,” New Yorker (in collaboration with Pro Publica and WNYC), October 4, 2017. [6] Letter from 52 House Democrats to White House Counsel Don McGahn, June 1, 2017.
10.05.2017	“The Trump Administration’s decision to withdraw all non-essential personnel from the US embassy in Havana is a reasonable precaution to protect our foreign service officers, but retaliatory expulsion of diplomats is another step towards estrangement and conflict. It does not help identify the method of the mysterious attacks on our staff, or explain who was responsible. We must retain open lines of communication to advance our investigation and find those responsible. Most importantly, we must not jeopardize our improved relationship with Cuba. If we want progress in key areas including human rights and trade, American influence will serve us and the Cuban people better than a return to the past policy of isolation.”
10.04.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), a co-chair of the House Democratic Caucus Jobs with Dignity Task Force, asked six U.S. companies noted for their excellence in workers’ compensation programs to share their best practices to help guide discussion on ways Congress can improve employee benefits for hard-working men and women. “The Jobs With Dignity Task Force is focused on delivering results for the middle class, and an obvious way to do that is encouraging businesses to replicate pro-worker practices which are already successful,” said Rep. Beyer. “Companies which deliver competitive benefits, wages, and strong retirement plans have much to offer by way of example, and Congress should do more to promote good corporate policies.” By restoring the traditional employment benefits enjoyed by previous generations, the Jobs with Dignity Task Force will develop ideas to raise wages and increase profit-sharing, stand up for workers’ rights and benefits, and provide genuine financial and retirement security to all Americans. “Americans deserve good-paying jobs that provide the benefits necessary to support their families and retire with dignity,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “With the leadership of Rep. Beyer, I’m confident in House Democrats’ ability to develop policies that will improve the quality of life for all American workers.” The Jobs with Dignity Task Force is one of five Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces, all focused on creating opportunities for growth, boosting hardworking families, and giving every worker the opportunity to achieve the American dream by developing legislation focused on investing in key industries. The effort was launched by House Democratic Caucus in September. For more information on the House Democratic Caucus’ Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: www.dems.gov/jobsforamerica
10.04.2017	Today Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) joined Reps. Price (D-NC) and Ted Deutch (D-FL) in a letter to President Trump signed by more than 180 Members of Congress urging the President to recertify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Announced in July of 2015, the JCPOA is an international agreement negotiated by the “P5+1” (United States, China, France, Russia, United Kingdom, and Germany), the European Union, and Iran that sought to cut off Iran’s path to nuclear weapons capability. The Representatives wrote: “We are united in our belief that enforcing this agreement to the fullest extent will provide the United States with more leverage to stop a potential Iranian nuclear weapons program and push back on Iran’s destabilizing activities. The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (INARA) requires the President to provide to Congress credible evidence of Iranian noncompliance should violations of the JCPOA occur. We have received no such information to date. On the contrary, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and career US military and intelligence officials continue to verify that Iran has honored its obligations under the agreement…” The letter comes in response to recent suggestions by President Trump that the administration may withhold certification of Iran’s compliance with the JCPOA, which must be re-certified every three months under the terms of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (INARA). Full text of the letter is available here.
10.02.2017	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement this morning after the mass shooting in Las Vegas which killed 50 people and injured over 200: “This morning’s news is horrific. Again, and again, and again, people in the United States, going about their daily lives, are subject to gun fire and to potential injury or death. It is unfathomable and unacceptable. Our hearts are with the many, many families whose lives were shattered by this massacre. We have a moral duty to honor their lives with action. We must not, and we will not, become desensitized to gun violence.”
10.02.2017	Preventing gun violence has been a major priority since I took office. I participated in the House sit-in to demand solutions to gun violence, and remain outspoken on this issue. Here are my positions on some legislation related to firearms and gun violence: Gun Violence Restraining Orders: Data shows that many acts of gun violence, particularly suicides mass shootings, are committed by people in moments of crisis. I introduced the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act (HR 2598) with Rep. Carbajal to give families and law enforcement the chance to remove gun access from people deemed dangerous to themselves or others. This measure has already proven effective in Connecticut and California. Background Checks: I support requiring a background check for every gun purchase. I also support measures to restrict gun access from people with convicted of hate crimes (HR 2841) or domestic violence (HR 2670). Weapons of War: The Supreme Court has ruled that the Second Amendment is not an unlimited right. There is no need for civilians to own military-style rifles, expanded-capacity ammunition magazines, and armor-piercing bullets. I support and cosponsor legislation to ban the sale of these weapons of war outside of law enforcement and the military. Research and Legal Recourse: The gun lobby has held significant influence in Congress for decades, and that influence has bought the gun industry protections which no other industry receives. I support lifting the ban on CDC research into causes and possible remedies for gun violence (HR 1478), and to lift legal protections with which Congress has shielded gun manufacturers from liability for malfeasance and wrongdoing. Silencers, the SHARE Act, and Concealed Carry Reciprocity: In 2016 led the charge against the SHARE Act, a bill which would end environmental and wildlife protections as well as deregulate certain armor-piercing ammunition and loosen restrictions on some interstate firearm trafficking. This year that bill is back, and its Republican sponsors have added a measure to deregulate firearm suppressors, commonly known as silencers. I fought this bill in Committee and voted against it, and will continue to strongly oppose both the SHARE Act and any bill to reduce restrictions on silencers. I also oppose concealed carry reciprocity legislation, which would override state and local laws restricting who can carry firearms. Both of these measures are widely opposed by law enforcement because they would make our communities less safe. Gun violence claims over 30,000 American lives per year. I do not believe it is enough to offer “thoughts and prayers;” we must honor the victims of gun violence by passing responsible, commonsense gun safety laws to save lives.
09.28.2017	Representatives Beyer and Speier today sent a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price urging him to minimize the damage from shutdowns of Healthcare.gov during open enrollment period. HHS recently announced that it would shut the site down for 12-hour periods on every Sunday but one throughout open enrollment. The letter was signed by 78 Democratic Representatives. The Representatives wrote: “The recent announcement by HHS regarding planned shut downs of HealthCare.gov during the 2018 Open Enrollment Period is incredibly concerning. These shut down periods will amount to a full three days in which Americans will not be able to enroll and access health coverage. Furthermore, this does not take into account that HHS has already reduced the time that Americans will be able to enroll this year by 47 days (a 51 percent time reduction) as compared to the 2017 Open Enrollment Period. By contrast, the HealthCare.gov website was online 99.9 percent of the time during the 2015 and 2016 open enrollment periods… On behalf of the millions of Americans who will have more difficulty or will not be able to sign up for and access health insurance coverage because of the many decisions made by HHS and President Trump, we ask that you take the simple step of tailoring website maintenance to shorter durations during times with low traffic or compensating for the lost hours due to maintenance by adding time to the end of the open enrollment period.” Added together, the scheduled Healthcare.gov shutdowns would shorten open enrollment by three days. The Trump Administration previously announced that it would cut the duration of open enrollment in half to 45 days after 2016’s 90-day period. A signed copy of the letter is available here and text is below. The Honorable Thomas E. Price, M.D. Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Hubert H. Humphrey Building 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 Dear Secretary Price: We are writing to request that you modify the planned maintenance on HealthCare.gov to avoid unnecessary disruption of the open enrollment period for the health insurance marketplaces. We have great concern over the recent announcement that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) plans to shut down HealthCare.gov every Sunday but one for a twelve-hour time window during the six-week open enrollment period. We therefore ask HHS to limit these outages and tailor them to ensure that outages are not scheduled during times with historically higher traffic or, conversely, add additional days onto open enrollment to make up for the extensive amount of lost enrollment time. The recent announcement by HHS regarding planned shut downs of HealthCare.gov during the 2018 Open Enrollment Period is incredibly concerning. These shut down periods will amount to a full three days in which Americans will not be able to enroll and access health coverage. Furthermore, this does not take into account that HHS has already reduced the time that Americans will be able to enroll this year by 47 days (a 51 percent time reduction) as compared to the 2017 Open Enrollment Period. By contrast, the HealthCare.gov website was online 99.9 percent of the time during the 2015 and 2016 open enrollment periods. This is just one of a series of troubling decisions made by HHS to limit Americans’ access to health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. The Trump Administration is spending 90 percent less on advertising to enroll people in the health insurance marketplaces despite clear evidence that advertising is an essential catalyst for enrollment. Also, 41 percent less funding will be allocated to navigators, the individuals who help people sign up for coverage. Most recently, HHS decided to no longer send regional representatives to assist in state-based open enrollment events, a clear move by the Trump Administration to purposefully weaken marketplace enrollment efforts. Therefore, we are extremely troubled by the decision to further limit the opportunity for those who wish to sign up for health coverage. On behalf of the millions of Americans who will have more difficulty or will not be able to sign up for and access health insurance coverage because of the many decisions made by HHS and President Trump, we ask that you take the simple step of tailoring website maintenance to shorter durations during times with low traffic or compensating for the lost hours due to maintenance by adding time to the end of the open enrollment period. For an agency whose stated mission is “to enhance and protect the health and well-being of all Americans,” we ask that you fulfill your mission and adjust the maintenance window to ensure that Americans are able to access care. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
09.25.2017	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today on the latest iteration of the Trump Administration’s “travel ban:” “Donald Trump cannot camouflage his Muslim Ban by adding new countries to it. Its discriminatory roots are still plainly visible. This policy is an attempt to use racial and anti-religious animus to divide people for political ends. As with previous bans, the Administration provides no evidence that they enhance public safety. Meanwhile, the ban continues to stigmatize millions of Muslim Americans, as well as our key allies in the war on terror. This policy has been wrong from the start, it is wrong still, and I will continue to oppose it.”
09.21.2017	Following the Equifax data breach of 143 million Americans’ personal information, Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), and John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) wrote to the three main credit rating agencies—Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian—to hear whether these companies will continue to include forced arbitration clauses in their terms of service or end their campaign against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule to restore consumers’ day in court. They wrote: “The economic security of nearly half of all Americans has been jeopardized because Equifax’s failure to safeguard our most sensitive information, which is now in the hands of criminals. Making matters worse, many of those affected by this massive security breach are unsure whether they even have legal recourse because of your company’s use of forced arbitration clauses. Although Equifax has revised its policy in response to public outcry, this limited change is simply not enough given the systemic nature of this problem and the scope of the lives affected. We therefore request information concerning your plans to revise your terms of service and stance on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) arbitration rule to restore consumers’ day in court.” The CFPB arbitration rule includes important safeguards for consumers against forced arbitration, a practice that routinely allows corporate entities to avoid class-action lawsuits by burying legal language in the fine print of contracts that require consumers to waive their right to court. A Republican measure to repeal that rule, supported by all three credit rating agencies, passed in the House of Representatives in July on a nearly-straight party-line vote. It is currently pending in the Senate. The group of House Democrats denounced the three credit agencies for their opposition to the forced arbitration rule, writing, “Rather than support this commonsense protection, your company and others like it have reportedly campaigned against it, spending millions in campaign contributions and other efforts to undermine both the rule and the CFPB. Now is the time to demonstrate your respect for the rights of your customers, not undermine them.” Signed copies of the letters are available here, here, and here.
09.14.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today offered the Democratic motion to recommit for H.R. 3697, a Republican bill which would make it easier to deport people suspected of connections to gangs without conviction or legal due process. Beyer expressed his agreement that MS-13 is a menace which needs to be combatted, but said this bill is deeply flawed. Beyer noted both potential constitutional issues, as well as concerns expressed by religious organizations that its overly-broad language could pave the way for ICE to sweep up and potentially deport nuns and religious workers who provide shelter, help, or transportation to immigrants. A portion of his comments follows, and video of the complete remarks is available here. “As a Representative of Virginia, a state with a long and troubled history with race – I think we need to be very careful before we implement policies that allow for structural racism. Before we pass this bill and start locking up nuns and priests and other religious workers, we should not continue this one dimensional conversation on immigration policy. We cannot only focus on enforcement and a mass deportation agenda. It doesn't fix our immigration system. We have got to work on comprehensive immigration reform. And we begin with the President’s recent decision to eliminate DACA and put Congress on the clock. We should be acting today to protect our Dreamers. 800,000 young immigrants - not members of MS-13 - their lives depend on it.” H.R. 3697, the “Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act,” was sponsored by Rep. Barbara Comstock, and the bill’s text is available here. The text of Beyer’s motion to recommit is available here.
09.14.2017	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and John Katko (R-NY) today announced the formation of a new bipartisan House Suicide Prevention Task Force. The launch of the Suicide Prevention Task Force came as mental health advocates marked the 42nd annual National Suicide Prevention Week. “Suicide is a tragedy which affects all of us, and it is incumbent upon all of us to do what we can to prevent it,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “I have lost so many friends who took their lives during a time of crisis, losses I feel particularly keenly during September, which is Suicide Prevention Month. There is more that Congress can do to raise awareness and save lives, and that’s why we have formed this Task Force.” Rep. John Katko said, “Suicide has affected far too many families in Central New York and in communities nationwide. It is clear there is a vital need to raise awareness for suicide prevention and to reduce the stigma associated with seeking mental healthcare. I’m proud to join together with a bipartisan group of my colleagues to launch this Task Force so that we can work to combat the prevalence of suicide and to provide greater support for those suffering with mental health issues.” The Task Force will be part of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, founded and chaired by Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA). “Suicide affects all demographics, but because of stigma we still do not speak about it,” said Rep. Grace Napolitano. “It is vital that we continue to educate our colleagues and find ways to address this epidemic in a bipartisan manner. As Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, I look forward to supporting the efforts of the Suicide Prevention Taskforce and thank Congressmen Beyer and Katko for their leadership.” The suicide rate in the US rose to a 30-year high in 2016, compounded by the opioid crisis and an alarmingly high veteran suicide rate. “As the nation’s largest suicide prevention organization, the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention knows how important it is to make suicide prevention a higher priority in our country. By forming a task force, Representatives Beyer, Katko, and Napolitano are encouraging other members of Congress to recognize the importance of this issue. Their dedication and time spent on this will help save lives. We encourage others on Capitol Hill to join them,” said Robert Gebbia, AFSP CEO. Those who are in crisis or know someone in crisis are encouraged call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) for help.
09.13.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today announced that he will serve in a leadership role in the House Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces, a unified effort from the House Democratic Caucus to craft a real legislative agenda that will benefit hardworking Americans and middle-class families. Beyer will serve as co-chair for the Jobs with Dignity Task Force. “This year the country has seen a Congressional majority and an Administration which repeatedly push economic policies designed to help the wealthy,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Americans understandably want to know who will fight for them. The Jobs for America Task Force will push legislation to rebuild the middle class and help working families, and I’m proud to be a part of it." By restoring the traditional employment benefits enjoyed by previous generations, the Jobs With Dignity task force will develop ideas to raise wages and increase profit-sharing, stand up for workers’ rights and benefits, and provide genuine financial and retirement security to all Americans. The Jobs with Dignity Task Force is one of five Democratic Caucus Jobs For America Task Forces aimed at identifying opportunities and solutions for American workers in five key areas: Rebuilding America, Jobs With Dignity, Access to Jobs, New Economy, and Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes. In the coming months, co-chairs of each task force will meet with business and labor leaders, issue experts, and American workers to develop policy goals and solutions that will benefit all Americans. The effort was launched by the House Democratic Caucus. “Workers deserve access to safe and secure jobs that give them the ability to climb the ladders of opportunity and build a nest egg for their golden years. Unfortunately, we’ve seen these opportunities dwindle, and that must change,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY). “Democrats are committed to bringing these jobs back, and I’m grateful to Congressman Beyer for his leadership in this important task force. We need to do all we can to put Americans back to work in good-paying, reliable jobs that will allow them the future they deserve.” More information on the House Democratic Caucus’ Jobs for America Task Forces is available here.
09.13.2017	The House of Representatives adopted an amendment to must-pass appropriations legislation late Tuesday to prohibit the Justice Department from using funds to remove restrictions on civil asset forfeiture. The bipartisan amendment was led by nine Representatives including Justin Amash (R-MI), and Don Beyer (D-VA), who spoke in favor of the bill from the House Floor. “Civil asset forfeiture without limits presents one of the strongest threats to our civil, property, and constitutional rights,” said Rep. Beyer. “It creates a reverse incentive for law enforcement to seek profit over justice. I thank my colleague, Congressman Amash, for leading the successful bipartisan effort to rein in this appalling practice.” Civil asset forfeiture is a law enforcement practice of seizing financial assets or property from people suspected – though not necessarily convicted – of involvement in a crime. Text of the amendment is available here.
09.06.2017	As Congress returned for its fall session ahead of a September 30 deadline to pass legislation to fund the federal government, Rep. Don Beyer introduced appropriations amendments relating to transportation safety for two roadways vital to Northern Virginians. “Arlington Memorial Bridge and the George Washington Parkway are essential hubs for my constituents in Northern Virginia,” said Rep. Beyer. “Unfortunately, like much of the country’s infrastructure, these historic roadways have not been maintained sufficiently. We need prompt action by the federal government to guarantee the continued safety and reliability of these key transportation arteries.” One of the amendments would require the Trump Administration to submit a report to Congress outlining a plan to fully fund repairs to Arlington Memorial Bridge, used by over 60,000 drivers every day. Beyer successfully led efforts to secure $90 million for bridge repairs last Congress, but additional funding is needed. Text of that amendment is available here. The other amendment would require the Secretaries of the Interior and Transportation to submit a study evaluating possible measures to increase roadway safety on the George Washington Parkway in Alexandria, Virginia. The parkway, which falls under the jurisdiction of the National Parks Service, has been the subject of growing public safety concerns in recent years. Text of that amendment is available here.
09.06.2017	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) today introduced bicameral legislation to reform federal elections to allow young Americans 16 and older to pre-register to vote, automatically adding them to voter rolls when they turn 18. Studies show that permitting young people to pre-register increases civic engagement and voter turnout. “This reform would encourage more voter participation among young people who will be most affected by public policy as their lives unfold,” said Rep. Beyer. “The health of our democracy requires greater engagement from its citizens, and pre-registration is a proven tool to accomplish this.” The bill was introduced in the House by Rep. Beyer, and in the Senate by Illinois Senator Tammy Duckworth. “The right to vote is a founding tenet of our democracy, and the strength of our democracy depends upon the participation of the American people,” said Sen. Duckworth. “Yet, many Americans still face unnecessary barriers when it comes to casting their vote, and voter turnout continues to lag behind that of many other developed nations. We should be doing everything we can to make it easier – not harder – for Americans to access the ballot box. I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bill to help young Americans become more civically engaged. By allowing Americans to pre-register at 16 years old, we have a chance to increase voter participation and strengthen voting rights for Americans across the country.” Congressman Keith Ellison is the co-lead on the House version of the PROVE Act. “Our nation is stronger when our government reflects the makeup and the values of the American people. One way to ensure that is by making it easier to vote and getting as many people as possible to the ballot box. The PROVE Act will do just that. In the 20 states where sixteen year olds can already pre-register, civic engagement for young people is higher. Passing a federal law requiring all states to allow pre-registration will help our government be more representative and respond to the needs of all Americans,” said Rep. Ellison. The legislation was introduced as Congress returned for its September session. September is nationally recognized as National Voter Registration Month. “When young people come together to participate in elections, we have the strength to change our society for the better — to speak truth to power and create a system that works for all of us,” said Carolyn DeWitt, President of Rock the Vote. “That’s why Rock the Vote is proud to support the PROVE Act, a critical step toward helping the next generation of Americans register to vote and make their voices heard at the ballot box.” Young people are already allowed to pre-register to vote in twenty states and the District of Columbia. The PROVE Act would nationalize this standard to engage more youth voters, who are overwhelmingly marginalized at the ballot box. “Common Cause commends Congressmen Beyer and Ellison and Senator Duckworth for introducing the PROVE Act,” said Aaron Scherb, Director of Legislative Affairs at Common Cause. “At a time when some states and localities are making it more difficult for Americans to vote, the PROVE Act is desperately needed to help ensure that all eligible voters can have their voices heard at the ballot box.” Rep. Beyer previously partnered with FairVote, a nonpartisan advocacy group researching and advancing electoral reforms, to introduce the Fair Representation Act, a bill designed to promote bipartisanship and end gerrymandering. "It's time to make pre-registration a national norm. We've supported and tracked it from the beginning. Experience shows that voter pre-registration is good government that efficiently increases the number of young people accurately placed on active voter rolls when they reach voting age. It has passed by lopsided margins in Republican-run states like Florida and Louisiana and in Democratic-run states like Maryland and Delaware -- and delivered on its promises in all of them,” said Rob Richie, Executive Director of FairVote. People aged 18-24 are consistently the least likely age group to cast a ballot, a trend which continued in 2016. Full text of the bill is available here.
09.05.2017	Rep. Don Beyer released this statement today following the Trump Administration’s announcement that it would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program in six months. “President Trump’s decision to end DACA and begin deporting our Dreamers betrays nearly one million young people who grew up with this country as their own and made so many contributions to it,” said Rep. Beyer. “This act of malice will tear apart hundreds of thousands of American families and inflict serious economic damage on the country. Congress has no choice but to act immediately, and it should begin consideration of the American Hope Act to protect Dreamers.” Rep. Beyer is an original cosponsor of the successor to the DREAM Act, the American Hope Act, and has signed previous letters to Presidents Obama and Trump urging their administrations to protect the DACA program, and to defend it from legal challenges.
07.28.2017	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA) and John Conyers (D-MI), Ranking Member of the House Committee on the Judiciary, today introduced the Security Clearance Review Act. The bill would authorize the Director of the FBI to revoke the security clearance of an employee of the Executive Office of the President if the Director deems such actions necessary to national security. Their legislation was cosponsored by 19 additional Representatives. “Donald Trump’s refusal to hold his senior staff accountable for their deceptions on Russia have sadly made this legislation necessary,” said Rep. Beyer. “Despite all we have learned about his secret meetings with Russians, Jared Kushner apparently continues to hold his clearance. Jared Kushner’s case and that of disgraced former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn make it clear that we need further protections when it comes to security clearances for the President’s family and closest advisers. I thank my colleague, Ranking Member Conyers, for working with me to craft legislation to protect our national security.” “The Trump Administration has a very poor track record when it comes to their handling of classified information—and those are only incidents we know about,” said Rep. Conyers. “Given that several senior officials appear to have failed to disclose their contacts with foreign governments on their applications for a security clearance, given that President Trump is related by marriage to at least one of these officials, and given that the President himself appears to have played fast and loose with sensitive intelligence, it is imperative that the authority to revoke these clearances extend beyond the President, to include the Director of the FBI.” The cosponsors of the bill are Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Norma Torres (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Peter Welch (D-VT), David Cicilline (D-RI), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA). Text of the bill is available here. Rep. Beyer has led congressional attempts to hold Jared Kushner accountable for “omitted” meetings with Russian officials from his SF-86 form since Kushner’s failure to disclose those meetings was revealed. In April, Beyer and four other Representatives asked the Administration to suspend Jared Kushner’s security clearance. The FBI’s response to that letter alerted the Representatives to the surprising fact that the President alone holds final authority to suspend or revoke employees of the Executive Office of the President. Beyer subsequently led over 50 Members of Congress in calling for immediate revocation of Kushner’s security clearance following revelations that the Special Prosecutor was investigating Kushner’s meetings with Russian officials. Earlier this month, Beyer led nearly two dozen Representatives seeking FBI scrutiny of White House adviser Ivanka Trump over possible omissions on her SF-86.
07.24.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) introduced four amendments to prevent Donald Trump from enriching himself at taxpayer expense by blocking the federal government from renting rooms at Trump brand hotels for official travel. “These amendments are necessary due to the President’s unprecedented failure to divest from his business, and the ongoing entanglement between the Trump Organization and the White House. Donald Trump should not be allowed to line his or his family’s pockets with taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. Beyer. Beyer introduced the amendments to the “minibus” spending bill, a Republican-sponsored appropriations bill to fund the Department of Defense, the Veterans Affairs Administration, and the legislative branch. GOP leadership resorted to this minibus because of its inability to pass all twelve appropriations bills before the federal fiscal year runs out on September 30th. View the amendment, submitted to each of the four sections of the "Minibus," here.
07.24.2017	Members of Congress from Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia today excoriated a newly-filed amendment to the “Minibus” appropriations bills. The amendment would use the Holman Rule to target federal employees in the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), which delivers projections on proposed legislation. In a joint statement, Don Beyer (D-VA), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), John Delaney (D-MD), Anthony Brown (D-MD), and Bobby Scott (D-VA) said: “This is a foolish and unprecedented Republican attack on nonpartisan federal employees in order to pass a bill that would strip healthcare for millions of Americans. Republicans are losing the game, so now they are trying to fire the refs. This is exactly what we worried about when Republicans reinstated this arcane rule in January. The Holman Rule empowers members of Congress to target individual federal employees. The rule is being used to punish an important advisory body for doing its job by providing forecasts which some members now find inconvenient. This is part of a strategic assault on objectivity and expertise in the civil service. Partisan talking points cannot replace unbiased analysis. Nowhere is this more true than in our budget process.” Though the appointment of the CBO’s director, Keith Hall, was praised by then-Budget Committee Chairman and current Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price, the nonpartisan office has recently drawn fire from the White House and now Congressional Republicans following a series of reports showing that Republican bills would lead to tens of millions more uninsured Americans. ###
07.19.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today led over 20 Representatives in requesting answers from the FBI about possible discrepancies on Ivanka Trump’s SF-86 form, which she was required to complete when she obtained a security clearance earlier this year. Their letter noted that the SF-86 requires the declaration of foreign contacts, meetings, and business interests by the clearance holder’s spouse and siblings. The Representatives asked whether Ivanka Trump properly disclosed her own meetings and contacts, as well as those of her husband, Jared Kushner, and brother Donald Jr. The Representatives wrote: “As a member of the White House staff and close adviser to the president, [Ivanka] Trump applied for a security clearance, and, as a result, was required to disclose her own foreign contacts as well as those of her spouse and siblings.” … Since his first filing, Mr. Kushner has had to update his SF-86 multiple times to reflect over 100 meetings or phone calls… We are concerned that Ivanka Trump may have engaged in similar deception. For example, did she disclose her husband's meeting with Kislyak and Gorkov? Did she disclose her brother's and husband's meeting with Veselnitskaya? Did she accurately disclose her own foreign contacts in her initial filing, which reports suggest may be numerous? If in fact she did accurately disclose these meetings, who at the White House knew of Mr. Kushner's and Mr. Trump Jr's multiple contacts with Russian officials before they were made public? And, most importantly, did she discuss any of these meetings with the President, and, if so, when? …The juxtaposition of their public and private roles may be murky and confused, but her obligation to disclose her families' and her foreign contacts is not. The high standard to which we hold public servants, particularly senior advisers to the President of the United States, requires that these questions be raised, and promptly answered.” The letter was signed by Democratic Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA), Jackie Speier (CA), Jamie Raskin (MD), Ted Lieu (CA), Jerrold Nadler (NY), Peter Welch (VT), Joseph Kennedy (D-MA), Barbara Lee (CA), Frank Pallone (NJ), Nydia Velazquez (NY), Pramila Jayapal (WA), Alcee Hastings (FL), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Steve Cohen (TN), Hank Johnson (GA), Jim McGovern (MA), Alma Adams (NC), Marcy Kaptur (OH), Donald Payne Jr. (NJ), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ), and David Price (NC). Full text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. Rep. Beyer has led congressional attempts to hold Jared Kushner accountable for “omitted” meetings with Russian officials from his SF-86 form since Kushner’s failure to disclose those meetings was revealed. In April, Beyer and four other Representatives asked the Administration to suspend Jared Kushner’s security clearance. Beyer subsequently led over 50 Members of Congress in calling for immediate revocation of Kushner’s security clearance following revelations that the Special Prosecutor was investigating Kushner’s meetings with Russian officials. *** The Honorable Andrew McCabe Acting Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation U.S. Department of Justice 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Acting Director McCabe: We are writing to request that the Federal Bureau of Investigation conduct a review of a potentially serious issue involving First Daughter and Assistant to the President, Ivanka Trump. As a member of the White House staff and close adviser to the president, Ms. Trump applied for a security clearance, and, as a result, was required to disclose her own foreign contacts as well as those of her spouse and siblings. Section 19 of the security clearance questionnaire for federal officials - known as Standard Form 86 (SF-86) - asks whether "you or any member of you immediate family in the past seven years had any contact with a foreign government, its establishment (such as embassy, consulate, agency, military service, intelligence or security service, etc.) or its representatives, whether inside or outside the U.S.?" Knowingly falsifying or concealing information on a SF-86 questionnaire is a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison. Lack of candor, particularly regarding contacts with Russian officials, has been a significant issue for the Trump administration. We learned last week that Ms. Trump's husband, Jared Kushner, and brother Donald Trump Jr. met with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya and others, including a former Russian counter intelligence officer, for the purpose of obtaining damaging information about Hillary Clinton. Mr. Trump Jr. initially denied any such meeting, and no mention of it was made on Mr. Kushner's initial security clearance questionnaire. Since his first filing, Mr. Kushner has had to update his SF-86 multiple times to reflect over 100 meetings or phone calls, including with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and Russian banker Sergey Gorkov, according to reports. It was also reported in May that Mr. Kushner met with Kislyak to establish a back channel with the Kremlin. We are concerned that Ivanka Trump may have engaged in similar deception. For example, did she disclose her husband's meeting with Kislyak and Gorkov? Did she disclose her brother's and husband's meeting with Veselnitskaya? Did she accurately disclose her own foreign contacts in her initial filing, which reports suggest may be numerous? If in fact she did accurately disclose these meetings, who at the White House knew of Mr. Kushner's and Mr. Trump Jr's multiple contacts with Russian officials before they were made public? And, most importantly, did she discuss any of these meetings with the President, and, if so, when? To date, Ms. Trump and her husband Jared Kushner have played an influential role in her father's administration. Ms. Trump even took her father's place at the head table with world leaders at the Group of 20 summit in Hamburg. Between them, the couple have been assigned expansive policy portfolios, even as they maintain a business empire that relies on foreign financing and manufacturing. The juxtaposition of their public and private roles may be murky and confused, but her obligation to disclose her families' and her foreign contacts is not. The high standard to which we hold public servants, particularly senior advisers to the President of the United States, requires that these questions be raised, and promptly answered. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ###
07.17.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) raising a series of issues with the Commission’s review process for the proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline. Beyer noted deficiencies with FERC’s review process in the area of public feedback and transparency, and urged the Commission to issue a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) for public comment. Beyer wrote: “I find FERC’s recent decision to issue the FEIS for the proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline patently alarming… At stake is one of our nation’s treasured landscapes – the Appalachian National Scenic Trail (A.T.) and the surrounding national park and national forest lands. The A.T. – congressionally designated as a national scenic trail nearly 50 years ago – is one of the most significant land features in the eastern United States….Mountain Valley’s proposed route impacts 19 prominent views over nearly 100 miles of the Appalachian Trail, affecting 20 percent of the trail in Virginia. … Affected stakeholders were…not able to offer their comments on the thousands of pages of updates for FERC consideration…..They deserve the opportunity to express their views fully and participate in a robust public engagement process, especially for projects which will use eminent domain to seize private land from homeowners and farmers. … Routes with less severe implications for the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, local ecosystems, local outdoor recreation and local communities and family farms of southwestern Virginia deserve further consideration. … A project the magnitude of the proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline should do more to minimize its impact and FERC should revise its process to go back to the drawing board, issue an SEIS, and allow for more extensive public input on all new information before proceeding further with the project.” Beyer also questioned the need for both pipelines and urged FERC “to thoroughly consider whether the proposed Mountain Valley and Atlantic Coast pipelines are necessary.” Full text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. *** Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 First Street, NE Washington, DC 20426 Dear Commissioners: I write to urge current and incoming Commissioners of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Commission’s staff to review the recently issued Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline (FERC/FEIS-0272F) to ensure that energy infrastructure, if deemed necessary, is appropriately sited to have minimal impact on nearby residents and communities, and that long-term safeguards for natural and cultural resources be given thorough consideration. I also urge the Commission to commit to more transparent public processes and to thoroughly consider whether the proposed Mountain Valley and Atlantic Coast pipelines are necessary. I find FERC’s recent decision to issue the FEIS for the proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline patently alarming. In response to the September 2016 Draft EIS, Mountain Valley Pipeline LLC had to present more information and an updated route for the pipeline proposal. Their updates extended beyond the public comment period, which ended in December 2016, and included thousands of additional pages of crucially important information. Affected stakeholders were thus not able to offer their comments on the thousands of pages of updates for FERC consideration. FERC’s appropriate course of action should be to issue a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) for public comment before moving forward towards the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. At stake is one of our nation’s treasured landscapes – the Appalachian National Scenic Trail (A.T.) and the surrounding national park and national forest lands. The A.T. – congressionally designated as a national scenic trail nearly 50 years ago – is one of the most significant land features in the eastern United States. Its cultural heritage, its recreational options, and its natural resources, including its important role in maintaining healthy watersheds, all serve crucial roles in the lives and communities of the Appalachian region. Mountain Valley’s proposed route impacts 19 prominent views over nearly 100 miles of the Appalachian Trail, affecting 20 percent of the trail in Virginia. The proposed route puts these cultural, recreational, and natural resources in peril, threatening healthy watersheds and small-town economies that are supported by outdoor recreation expenditures. Construction of the pipeline along this route could severely degrade the A.T. as well as the surrounding national park and national forest lands. I am also concerned that the pipeline developer did not fully consider proposed alternative routes once it became clear that its recommended route would require the U.S. Forest Service to amend the Jefferson National Forest Management Plan. Such forest management plans are designed carefully and only after extensive public consultation. The alteration of such a laboriously constructed and well-balanced forest management plan to accommodate one company’s proposed pipeline route should prompt FERC and the Forest Service to redouble their efforts to receive input from and give consideration to the views of the local communities affected by large energy infrastructure proposals. The current consideration of two major pipeline proposals in Virginia has also brought greater attention to opportunities available to FERC to improve its public engagement and responsiveness. Local communities affected most by proposed energy infrastructure naturally have concerns regarding projects of this size and complexity. They deserve the opportunity to express their views fully and participate in a robust public engagement process, especially for projects which will use eminent domain to seize private land from homeowners and farmers. I am not alone in these concerns: residents across the Commonwealth of Virginia, as well as their Senators and Representatives, are expressing their concerns as well. My colleagues, hailing from both sides of the aisle, recently introduced measures – H.R. 2893 and S. 1314 – which call for greater fairness and transparency in FERC’s important role in the permitting of natural gas pipelines. I urge the Commission to reform its own processes to align its work with the steps outlined in these legislative proposals. Finally, the necessity of the project over the long term remains suspect, as a recent filing from the Southern Environmental Law Center requesting that FERC hold an evidentiary hearing for the Atlantic Coast Pipeline makes clear. Moving forward with both the Atlantic Coast Pipeline and the Mountain Valley Pipeline could only be necessary if significant energy demand was guaranteed to continue in this region and target markets for multiple decades, if one of these major pipelines would be woefully insufficient to meet that level of assured demand, and if all clean energy alternatives, including renewable energy and energy efficiency, have been fully deployed and exhausted. I am not yet satisfied that these questions have been definitively resolved. Moreover, each pipeline is proposed to be built by companies that are corporate affiliates of the companies slated to purchase the majority of the transported gas, a potentially self-dealing arrangement that calls into question any true, market-based need for either pipeline. I urge FERC to conduct a thorough and transparent review of the need for each of these projects. Regardless of whether these pipelines are actually necessary or reflect actual, free market demand, FERC’s Final Environmental Impact Statement on the Mountain Valley Pipeline leaves too many questions unanswered and too many communities exposed. Routes with less severe implications for the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, local ecosystems, local outdoor recreation and local communities and family farms of southwestern Virginia deserve further consideration. A project the magnitude of the proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline should do more to minimize its impact and FERC should revise its process to go back to the drawing board, issue an SEIS, and allow for more extensive public input on all new information before proceeding further with the project. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr.
07.10.2017	Rep. Don Beyer introduced an amendment this morning to H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act, that would block the federal government and Trump administration from implementing any cyber agreement the President made with Russian leader Vladimir Putin. “Donald Trump’s proposal to form a ‘cyber security unit’ with Putin is a terrible idea that would immediately jeopardize American cybersecurity,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Trump must acknowledge that Russia interfered in the 2016 election and take strong, meaningful action to prevent it from happening again in future elections.” The amendment says: SEC. 1040. LIMITATION RELATING TO CERTAIN CYBER AGREEMENTS. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2018 for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to share intelligence, information, equipment, personnel, or facilities related to any cyber agreement entered into with Russia after December 31, 2016. The House Committee on Rules will meet Tuesday evening to determine if the amendment will be made in order for cull consideration by the House later in the week. The text of the Beyer Amendment is posted on the Committee’s website here.
07.10.2017	Following Donald Trump Jr.’s statement that he, former Trump Campaign Manager Paul Manafort, and Trump son-in-law and Senior White House Advisor Jared Kushner met in June of 2016 with a Russian lawyer connected to Vladimir Putin for the purpose of receiving damaging information about former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today issued the following statement: “Jared Kushner is a Senior Adviser to the President of the United States, and as such should be held to the highest ethical standard. Instead he has engaged in conduct which would have resulted in termination for any federal employee who was not specifically protected by the President, who also happens to be his father-in-law. Donald Trump Jr. confirmed that he secretly met during the presidential campaign with a Russian lawyer tied to Putin, ostensibly to receive damaging information from Russia on his father’s political opponent, Secretary Hillary Clinton. He further confirmed that Jared Kushner was present at this meeting. Whether we believe Trump’s Jr.’s claim that Kushner did not know the meeting’s purpose beforehand is immaterial. The fact that Jared Kushner initially omitted this meeting from his SF-86, and only disclosed it after coming under considerable scrutiny, implies that he knew something untoward had happened. Kushner should have immediately reported this attempt by a foreign adversary to interfere in the U.S. election to the FBI. Instead, the country learned of the meeting for the first time from a newspaper report over a year later. During that year, U.S. intelligence concluded with high confidence that Putin directed Russian intervention in the U.S. presidential election. Kushner remained silent. Members of the Trump Administration, including Trump and Vice President Pence, denied any contacts between the Trump campaign and Russian officials. Kushner failed to report the meeting on his SF-86 security clearance form. Kushner should not be permitted access to classified material, he should not be empowered to conduct official business on behalf of the American people, and he should not be allowed to continue in any capacity as a counselor to the President. He has irrevocably betrayed the public trust. Jared Kushner must resign. If he will not, he should be fired.” Background: Rep. Don Beyer and four other Representatives asked the Administration to suspend Jared Kushner’s security clearance in April, following the news that he had omitted meetings with Russian officials from his SF-86 form. In May, he led over 50 Members of Congress in calling for immediate revocation of Kushner’s security clearance following revelations that the Special Prosecutor was investigating Kushner’s meetings with Russian officials. In September of 2000, former Rep. Tom Downey, an adviser to Vice President Gore’s presidential campaign, was mailed debate preparation materials from the George W. Bush campaign. He immediately notified the FBI, which conducted an investigation, and recused himself from further debate preparation activities.
06.30.2017	Virginia Representatives Don Beyer and Gerry Connolly issued the following statement today on the case of Dr. Radwan Ziadeh, currently under consideration by the Department of Homeland Security: “The Department of Homeland Security's announcement that it intends to deny asylum to Virginia resident Dr. Radwan Ziadeh, a Syrian legal scholar and human rights advocate, is completely nonsensical. Dr. Ziadeh was accused of engaging in terrorist activity after helping arrange peace conferences that were attended by members of groups that received US support. To say that a person, like Dr. Ziadeh, who has devoted his entire life to securing a peaceful and democratic Syria has engaged in “terrorist activity” by helping to organize peace conferences that were attended by members of a group that came to be part of the opposition movement is unreasonable and unsupportable. It is U.S. policy to condemn Assad's brutality, but the Department of Homeland Security now proposes to refuse a leading critic of that regime lifesaving protection from those who have threatened him and his family with violence. Such a determination penalizes US partners in peace and diverts DHS' limited resources from barring others who mean us harm. In addition, aside from important opposition figures like Dr. Ziadeh, thousands of everyday Syrian civilians who had routine contact with members of opposition groups could likewise be barred from immigration relief by such a broad interpretation of the relevant law. We support a viable, inclusive peace in Syria built upon human rights and rule of law, and Dr. Ziadeh's efforts in this regard make him an asset to US foreign policy interests. The Department of Homeland Security should correct this error with all possible haste, and protect his ability to remain in Virginia and continue his work in pursuit of peace.”
06.29.2017	Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA) and John Rutherford (R-FL) today sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke urging an immediate halt to the permitting process for seismic airgun blasting in the Atlantic Ocean. The letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 103 Representatives. The Representatives wrote: “This decision to move forward with permits for seismic airgun surveys for subsea oil and gas deposits puts at risk the vibrant Atlantic Coast economies dependent on health ocean ecosystems, which generate $95 billion in gross domestic product and support nearly 1.4 million jobs each year. “…We hear from countless business owners, elected officials and residents along our coasts who recognize and reject the risks of offshore oil and gas development. More than 120 local governments have passed formal resolutions opposing oil and gas exploration and/or drilling in the Atlantic or Eastern Gulf. “…Opening the Atlantic to seismic testing and drilling jeopardizes our coastal businesses, fishing communities, tourism, and our national security. It harms our coastal economies in the near term and opens the door to even greater risks from offshore oil and gas production down the road. Therefore, we implore you not to issue any permits for seismic airgun surveys for subsea oil and gas deposits in the Atlantic Ocean.” Rep. Beyer previously introduced the Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection Act to ban the use of seismic airgun blasting in the Atlantic, and has been a vocal opponent of the Trump Administration’s decision to resume Atlantic drilling. The letter was signed by 103 Representatives, and the full text of the letter is below. June 28, 2017 Secretary Ryan Zinke Department of Interior 1849 C St NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Mr. Secretary: We are writing in strong opposition to your recent secretarial order (#3350) to move forward with offshore oil and gas exploration in the Atlantic Ocean, and the subsequent issuance of five Incidental Harassment Authorizations (IHAs) by the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) for Atlantic geophysical & geological (G&G) permit applications. This decision to move forward with permits for seismic airgun surveys for subsea oil and gas deposits puts at risk the vibrant Atlantic Coast economies dependent on healthy ocean ecosystems, which generate $95 billion in gross domestic product and support nearly 1.4 million jobs each year. Offshore oil and gas exploration and development, the first step of which is seismic airgun testing, puts at risk coastal economies based on fishing, tourism, and recreation. Numerous studies show the detrimental impacts seismic airgun blasting has on fisheries and marine mammals, thereby affecting the catch anglers bring dockside and the revenue generated by related businesses. A 2014 study conducted off North Carolina’s coast by the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, Duke University and NOAA found that, during seismic surveying, the abundance of reef-fish declined by 78 percent during evening hours, a time of day when fish use of that same habitat was highest on the previous three days when seismic surveys were not being conducted. The tertiary effects of this trickle down to fishing businesses, restaurants and the visitors that flock to our coastal communities. Some proponents of opening drilling in the Atlantic make the argument that seismic airgun surveys for oil and gas deposits would allow local communities to learn more about what resources might be available. The reality is that, by law, the data obtained from seismic surveys are proprietary and only available to the oil and gas industry. The public, local government officials and even Members of Congress would not have access to the survey data. This inability to access information leaves coastal communities without the opportunity to perform substantive cost-benefit analyses for extracting oil and gas reserves off their coasts. Our constituents would be left taking on significant risk without being involved in future development decisions. We hear from countless business owners, elected officials and residents along our coasts who recognize and reject the risks of offshore oil and gas development. More than 120 local governments have passed formal resolutions opposing oil and gas exploration and/or drilling in the Atlantic or Eastern Gulf. These include numerous local chambers of commerce, tourism and restaurant associations, commercial and recreational fishing associations, and the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils. More than 41,000 businesses and 500,000 commercial fishing families strongly oppose offshore oil and gas exploration and drilling. Further, NASA, the Department of Defense, and the Florida Defense Support Task Force have also expressed concern with offshore oil and gas development threatening their ability to perform critical activities. Opening the Atlantic to seismic testing and drilling jeopardizes our coastal businesses, fishing communities, tourism, and our national security. It harms our coastal economies in the near term and opens the door to even greater risks from offshore oil and gas production down the road. Therefore, we implore you not to issue any permits for seismic airgun surveys for subsea oil and gas deposits in the Atlantic Ocean. Sincerely, John Rutherford Member of Congress Don Beyer Member of Congress Cc: Walter Cruickshank, Acting Director, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Dr. Bill Brown, Chief Scientist, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Samuel Rauch, Acting Director for Fisheries, NOAA Fisheries Jen Anderson, Regional NEPA Coordinator, NOAA Fisheries ###
06.29.2017	U.S. Representative Don Beyer met this morning with officers from the Alexandria Police Department and paramedics from the Alexandria Fire Department who responded to the mass shooting at Eugene Simpson Memorial Park earlier this month. He also spoke with Alexandria Sheriff Dana Lawhorne, who assisted local law enforcement in the response that morning. Beyer presented the first responders with a framed copy of his Congressional Record statement honoring their bravery and that of the Capitol Police. Text of that statement follows below: HONORING THE FIRST RESPONDERS OF THE JUNE 14, 2017 SHOOTING AT EUGENE SIMPSON PARK ______________ HON. DONALD S. BEYER JR. OF VIRGINIA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Wednesday, June 28, 2017 Mr. Beyer – Virginia: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend the City of Alexandria’s First Responders to the scene of the shooting at Eugene Simpson Memorial Park in my district in Alexandria, Virginia. Two weeks ago today, Wednesday, June 14th, around 7:00 a.m., a man fired scores of shots at Members of Congress who were practicing for the annual Congressional Baseball Game. The shooting wounded House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Capitol Police Officers David Bailey and Crystal Griner, Congressional staffer Zack Barth, and former Congressional staffer Matt Mika. The timely response of Alexandria’s First Responders almost certainly saved lives. Alexandria Police Officers Nicole Battaglia, Alexander Jensen and Kevin Jobe arrived within minutes of the 911 call. Officer Battaglia came under fire upon arriving at the scene, and Officers Jensen and Jobe immediately engaged the shooter upon arrival. In the opinion of Alexandria Police Mike Brown, the officers showed true bravery as they responded to a combat zone before working with Capitol Police to neutralize the shooter. Medical care provided by members of the Alexandria Fire Department, including Fiona Apple and Richard Krimmer and dozens of other paramedics and firefighters who operated while the scene was still dynamic, ensured this senseless act of violence did not become a multiple fatality event. I am honored to commend these valiant individuals for their selfless service; I thank them not only for saving the lives of the victims of this evil, mindless gun violence, but for their daily positive impact on the extraordinary community of Del Ray in the exceptional City of Alexandria. ###
06.29.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) and a group of over 70 Members of Congress today wrote to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to extend the comment period to revise or rescind the Clean Water Rule. Their letter noted that the previous Clean Water Rule’s comment period included substantial outreach efforts to solicit input from stakeholders and the public, and lasted over 200 days, whereas Pruitt afforded the new rule only 30 days for public comment. The Representatives asked for an extension of at least 90 days. They wrote: “Americans depend on clean water for their health and livelihood. More than 117 million Americans rely upon drinking water from public water systems that draw supply from headwater, seasonal, or rain-dependent streams that were vulnerable to pollution before the Clean Water Rule. As such, the decision to roll back the Clean Water Rule cannot be made in haste. We are concerned that the EPA has provided limited time and opportunity for stakeholder involvement and official public comment. Any proposed rulemaking must include sufficient time and participation to gather input from concerned and affected parties, including those whose legal rights and responsibilities will be affected by this effort. …Given the history of engagement on this issue and the fact that parties may be subject to greater regulatory uncertainty by this effort, a comment period of 30 days does not allow for meaningful engagement from the public and stakeholders.” Full text of the letter is below: June 29, 2017 Administrator Scott Pruitt Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20460 Attention: Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OW-2017-XXXX Re: Request for Extension of Comment Period on EPA and Corps Proposed Rule Defining Waters of the United States under the Clean Water Act. Dear Administrator Pruitt: We request a minimum 90 day extension to the proposed 30-day comment period to rescind the 2015 Clean Water Rule, 80 Fed. Reg. 37054 (Jun. 29, 2015). The Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) finalized the Clean Water Rule to clarify the scope of waters protected under the Clean Water Act. The EPA and the Corps solicited comments on the Rule for over 200 days. In accordance with Administrative Procedure Act, the agencies first established a public comment period for 90 days and extended the comment period twice in response to extension requests. The final rule reflected over 1 million public comments on the proposal, the substantial majority of which supported the Clean Water Rule. The agencies also initiated an extensive public outreach effort, including over 400 meetings across the nation with various stakeholders, including but not limited to: states, small businesses, farmers, academics, miners, energy companies, counties, municipalities, environmental organizations, and other federal agencies. The agencies incorporated these comments into the final Clean Water Rule. President Trump’s Executive Order 13778 directs EPA and the Corps to evaluate whether to revise or rescind the Clean Water Rule, “as appropriate and consistent with law.” We ask that as you examine the Clean Water Rule, like the prior administration, you engage in a thoughtful and comprehensive process bound in scientific fact. Americans depend on clean water for their health and livelihood. More than 117 million Americans rely upon drinking water from public water systems that draw supply from headwater, seasonal, or rain-dependent streams that were vulnerable to pollution before the Clean Water Rule. As such, the decision to roll back the Clean Water Rule cannot be made in haste. We are concerned that the EPA has provided limited time and opportunity for stakeholder involvement and official public comment. Any proposed rulemaking must include sufficient time and participation to gather input from concerned and affected parties, including those whose legal rights and responsibilities will be affected by this effort. For example, the 2015 Clean Water Rule provided legal certainty that regulatory-defined water features, such as stormwater control features, wastewater recycling structures, and puddles, are not covered by the Clean Water Act. However, that certainty would be eliminated if the 2015 Clean Water Rule were rescinded. Given the history of engagement on this issue and the fact that parties may be subject to greater regulatory uncertainty by this effort, a comment period of 30 days does not allow for meaningful engagement from the public and stakeholders. The Clean Water Rule is robust and ensures that water sources are protected by taking into account the connected systems of water, from wetlands and seasonal bodies of water to large rivers and lakes. The requirements of the Rule were meticulously developed and addressed longstanding uncertainty, improving our national commitment to protect not only America’s water, but the American people. If the Clean Water Rule is revised or rescinded, the process must be comprehensive and deliberative. We ask that you take into consideration the opinions of the American public by extending the comment period, allowing for respectful debate. We look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, ###
06.27.2017	Rep. Don Beyer and special guests Tom Wheeler, former Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), and Jonathan Sallet, former FCC General Counsel held a town hall discussion on the future of net neutrality last night in Arlington, Virginia. The event was attended by over 200 people, many of whom came armed with deep knowledge of FCC policy and complex questions about next steps for FCC’s proposed changes for regulation of broadband internet. “Without strong net neutrality protections, internet service providers could create an internet ecosystem that is no longer truly open, and put startups and small businesses at a significant disadvantage,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Net neutrality protections are also crucial for communities of color and disadvantaged groups. An open internet provides a platform that allows these historically discriminated against groups to bypass the traditional media gatekeepers to tell their own story. As the FCC moves to strip open internet protections, Virginians must make their voices heard by commenting directly to the FCC.” Former FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler spoke up vigorously in favor of net neutrality, and urged participants who supported it to voice their opinions at the FCC’s public comment page. "The question that comes: will giant companies be able to exploit their monopoly position?” said former FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler. “Who's going to stand up for consumers? Who's going to stand up for innovation? And who is going to stand up for the most important network in determining our future in the 21st century and making sure that that network is fast, fair, and open? The law is in place today, the law has been affirmed by the courts, and we've got to make sure that the law stays in place." Former FCC General Counsel Jonathan Sallet made the case that public comment on net neutrality could be crucial for future litigation of the rule in court. “I know this... what people say to the FCC today, in comments, in emails, about their own experiences: that can help shape what happens if it's necessary to go to court one more time," said Jonathan Sallet, former FCC General Counsel. Full video of the Arlington town hall on net neutrality is available here.
06.27.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement today in response to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt announcement of an upcoming proposal to repeal the Clean Water Rule: “With every new act to loosen protections for clean air and, today, clean water, it becomes clearer and clearer that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt considers environmental protection an inessential component of his job. The Clean Water Rule protects public health and natural resources, which are key to tourism and the outdoor economy of every US state. The existing Clean Water Rule was developed in consultation with scientists and with the goal of protecting public health and the environment, but sadly both of these considerations once again lost to Pruitt’s desire to appease industry special interests.”
06.26.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today introduced the Fair Representation Act, a bill which would enact a series of measures designed to reform congressional elections. “The Fair Representation Act is designed to restore the faith which so many Americans have lost in our political system,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “This bill would ensure that every voter has their voice represented in Congress, and make real progress towards bipartisan focus on getting results for the American people.” Rep. Beyer was joined by Reps. Ro Khanna (D-CA) and Jamie Raskin (D-MD), co-leads on the bill, as well as speakers from FairVote and Third Way. “The Fair Representation Act is the most comprehensive approach to improving congressional elections in American history,” said Rob Richie, the executive director of FairVote. “It creates an impartial, national standard that gets at the core of FairVote’s mission: Giving voters greater choice, a stronger voice, and a representative democracy that works for all Americans.” The Fair Representation Act would move US House elections into multi-member districts drawn by independent redistricting commissions, and elected through ranked choice voting. The multi-member districts would be effective in states apportioned six or more seats in the House, and would elect three to five Representatives each, depending on the size of the state. Taken together, these three measures would incentivize congressional candidates to appeal to a broader range of voters. “No single reform would create more opportunities for women and people of color from across the spectrum to compete in fair elections,” said Cynthia Terrell, founder of Representation2020. “It is central to our vision of how we achieve parity for women in congressional elections.” Full text of the bill may be found here, and more resources, including factsheets and FAQ’s, are available from FairVote here.
06.22.2017	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today after Senate Republican leaders lifted the veil of secrecy on their draft “health care” legislation: “All legislation begins with goals. The goal of the Senate GOP bill unveiled today, like that of the House bill already passed, is not to improve health care, but rather to deliver a massive tax cut to the super-rich and eliminate health care for millions of Americans. Nearly 70 million Americans are enrolled in Medicaid today, a program which would be dramatically slashed if this bill is passed into law. These cuts would be particularly harmful for seniors, children, veterans, individuals suffering with addiction like those affected by our current opioid epidemic, individuals with mental illness, individuals with disabilities, and low-income Americans. Cutting taxes for the wealthiest among us while hurting these millions is not just ‘mean.’ It would exacerbate the opioid epidemic and eliminate many Americans’ ability to participate in society and be taxpaying citizens. It would do irreparable harm to millions of Americans.” Text of the legislation draft is available here.
06.16.2017	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today in response to the Trump Administration’s rescission of the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program: “Last night, following the tragic events in Alexandria, members of both parties gathered at the Congressional Baseball Game to put partisanship aside with a celebration of friendship and unity. Before the game had even finished, the Trump Administration shattered this spirit of good feelings by announcing the rescission of the DAPA program. Northern Virginia families already saw the distressing impact of Trump’s divisive policies when ICE officials detained Liliana Cruz Mendez, mother to two American citizens. It is of some comfort that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, initiated 5 years ago, remains in place, but the need for Congress to pass Comprehensive Immigration Reform with a pathway to citizenship has never been more urgent.”
06.16.2017	Rep. Don Beyer, a member of the bipartisan Cuba Working Group in the House of Representatives, today condemned the Trump Administration’s decision to impose renewed restrictions on travel and trade with Cuba. “Donald Trump is looking to the past on Cuba,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “President Trump’s Cuba policy, which he contrived for political purposes in a back room with a few Members of Congress from Florida, is a rollback of the long overdue opening initiated by President Obama. President Trump is taking counterproductive steps to return us to the failed policies this country employed for over five decades. Like the blockade, the Trump Cuba policy will not achieve any meaningful progress for human rights in Cuba, and will hurt the Cuban people, impose needless restrictions on Americans, and harm American businesses.” Rep. Beyer previously traveled with President Barack Obama during his historic visit to Havana following his restoration of relations with the Cuban government in 2016.
06.06.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today joined Arizona Representative Martha McSally today to introduce legislation to phase out and ultimately end the practice of testing the safety of cosmetics on animals in the United States. The Humane Cosmetics Act would prohibit selling or transporting any cosmetics in interstate commerce if any component of the final product was developed or manufactured using animal testing. “Congress should permanently end the painful and unnecessary process of testing cosmetics on animals in this country,” said Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA). “The cosmetics industry already has safer, more cost effective methods of testing that do not harm animals. American companies face no economic risk from this legislation, which would also show moral leadership.” “The cruelty animals are subjected to during cosmetics testing is unacceptable—from lethal dose tests to irritation and force-feeding tests. Not only are these tests inhumane, but modern technology makes them unnecessary and overly expensive,” said Rep. McSally (AZ-02). “The cosmetics industry is already using alternative cutting edge testing methods that are safer, cheaper, and don’t hurt animals. It’s time the United States join the ranks of over 30 other countries in the developed world to stand against this vile practice. The inhumane treatment of animals serves no place in our society.” “There’s no need to torture and kill animals for cosmetic testing purposes,” said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The Humane Society of the United States. “There are superior, non-animal testing methods, and the U.S. should join more than 30 countries in ending archaic testing. No animal should suffer for a new tube of lipstick or shampoo.” “Ending the use of animals for testing of cosmetics is an issue that both sides of the aisle can get behind, which is why I am so excited that the Humane Cosmetics Act has been introduced,” said Bellamy Young, who stars as President Melody "Mellie" Grant in the ABC drama TV show, Scandal. “The pain and suffering endured by guinea pigs, rabbits, mice and other animals at the hands of the cosmetics industry is fundamentally unacceptable to the American people who care deeply about the humane treatment of all animals. I sincerely hope lawmakers rush to co-sponsor the HCA, so the U.S. can join 37 other nations that have already passed laws to ban or limit these archaic, unnecessary experiments on animals.” The Humane Cosmetics Act will bring U.S. cosmetic policy in line with more than 30 countries that have already implemented bans on animal testing and the sale of animal-tested cosmetics—including the European Union, Israel, Norway, Switzerland, and India. In fact, of the 13 biggest importers of American cosmetics, 8 countries have bans in place or legislation under consideration. To sell their products to these countries, American cosmetic companies already have to comply with animal testing bans. 700 cosmetic brands in North America don’t test products or ingredients on animals, and instead use other affordable, proven methods of testing and innovate with thousands of ingredients already proven safe for use. The legislation has been endorsed by 195 companies in the cosmetic industry, and the Humane Cosmetics Act is supported in equal measure by Republicans and Democrat cosponsors.
06.01.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today sent a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn demanding that the White House revoke the security clearance of Jared Kushner, Senior Adviser and son-in-law of President Trump. “Jared Kushner’s actions are incompetent if not criminal, and he cannot be trusted,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “I filled out an SF-86 form to become a US Ambassador. Thousands of Americans complete it successfully and honestly every year to obtain clearances. Kushner’s story about ‘accidentally’ omitting meetings with Russian officials becomes less plausible every day, given reports that he talked with Russian officials during the campaign, discussed opening secret communications with Putin, and urged Donald Trump to fire James Comey. This is an obvious pattern of secrecy and deception, and the White House must revoke his security clearance.” Reps. Beyer, Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), and Peter Welch (D-VT) previously wrote a letter seeking suspension of Kushner’s clearance pending review of his omitted meetings. Since that time, news reports have revealed that the meetings which Kushner omitted from his SF-86 form have become a subject of the FBI’s larger investigation of contacts between Russian officials and the Trump campaign. The new letter was led by Reps. Beyer, Lieu, Nadler, Raskin, and Welch, and signed by Reps. Hank Johnson (D-GA), Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Jim McGovern (D-MA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Frank Pallone Jr. (D-NJ), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Carol Shea-Porter (D-ME), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Norma Torres (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NY), Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), David Scott (D-GA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Tim Walz (D-MN), Adam Smith (D-WA), Danny Davis (D-IL), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), John Garamendi (D-CA), Sander Levin (D-MI), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Grace Meng (D-NY), John Delaney (D-MD), David Loebsack (D-IA), and Scott Peters (D-CA). Text of the letter is below, and a signed copy is available here. The Honorable Don McGahn Counsel to the President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. McGahn: Multiple press stories[1],[2] sourced to senior Administration and law enforcement officials report that Jared Kushner, a senior adviser and son-in-law to the president, is a subject of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) ongoing probe into possible collusion between Russian officials and the Trump campaign. According to the reports, Mr. Kushner, along with former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak to discuss options for establishing a secret line of communication directly between the Trump transition team and the Kremlin. Not only was the purpose of the meeting concealed from the public, the meeting itself was omitted from both Mr. Kushner's and Mr. Flynn's FBI security clearance questionnaires. The Standard Form-86 (SF-86), mandatory for obtaining a security clearance, requires the disclosure of all foreign contacts. Knowingly falsifying or concealing information on a SF-86 questionnaire is a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison. [3] Given the severity of these allegations and prior revelations that Mr. Kushner omitted this meeting and dozens of other foreign contacts from his SF-86, [4] we are requesting that the White House immediately revoke Mr. Kushner's clearance pending the conclusion of the investigation. Serious questions have previously been raised[5] about Mr. Kushner's omitted meetings with Russian officials, meetings which occurred during a time when US intelligence delivered its assessment[6],[7] that the Russian government attempted to interfere in US elections. Subsequent news reports now tell the story of clandestine calls and meetings between Mr. Kushner and Russian officials during the campaign and transition, attempts to conceal those meetings from US intelligence and law enforcement, and Mr. Kushner's subsequent support for attempts to obstruct the investigation of Trump-Russia contacts, including his own. While the various congressional and law enforcement investigations continue, the White House should take all possible steps to protect national security including immediately revoking Mr. Kushner's security clearance. Thank you for your consideration of this matter. [1] https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/jared-kushner-now-a-focus-in-russia-investigation/2017/05/25/f078db74-40c7-11e7-8c25-44d09ff5a4a8_story.html?hpid=hp_hp-top-table-main_kushner-645pm%3Ahomepage%2Fstory&utm_term=.ebd856c97437 [2] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/29/us/politics/jared-kushner-russia-investigation.html [3] https://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/sf86-non508.pdf [4] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/06/us/politics/jared-kushner-russians-security-clearance.html [5] https://beyer.house.gov/uploadedfiles/kushner_letter.pdf [6] https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/obama-orders-review-of-russian-hacking-during-presidential-campaign/2016/12/09/31d6b300-be2a-11e6-94ac-3d324840106c_story.html?hpid=hp_hp-top-table-main_russiahack-745p%3Ahomepage%2Fstory&tid=a_inl&utm_term=.b5901f50c0be [7] https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/clinton-blames-putins-personal-grudge-against-her-for-election-interference/2016/12/16/12f36250-c3be-11e6-8422-eac61c0ef74d_story.html
06.01.2017	Reps. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA), co-chairs of the Congressional Safe Climate Caucus, today denounced the decision by the Trump White House to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement. “Pulling the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Change Accord is not leadership. It is an act of cowardice,” said Rep. Lowenthal (D-CA). “The Trump administration has a blatant disregard for the truth and is determined to turn the misleading claims and tired talking points of a handful of billionaires and their lobbyists into pro-polluter policy. Pulling out of the Paris Accord will have long lasting negative impacts on the health, safety, and prosperity of our families.” Departure from the Paris Agreement would make the United States one of only three nations not participating in the international plan to fight climate change. The others are Syria and Nicaragua. “Trump’s decision will be a self-inflicted wound on our allies’ trust in American leadership,” said Rep. Beyer (D-VA). “The Paris Agreement was a vision reflecting decisive action, hope, ingenuity, and the ideals with which we would define our country’s place in the world. Withdrawal from that agreement represents a triumph of ignorance, nativism, and political pandering, and the message it sends to other countries will be disastrous for the relationships which have built and sustained our prosperity.” The House Safe Climate Caucus was formed in 2009 to raise awareness both within Congress and with the public about the many ways climate change is affecting the world. It has 52 Members, including co-chairs Lowenthal and Beyer.
05.31.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement in response to news that President Trump will soon announce his intention to exit the Paris Climate Agreement: “The Paris Climate Agreement negotiated by President Obama, leading global climate scientists, and other responsible world leaders represents our best opportunity to arrest the devastating effects of global climate change. Today’s news that Donald Trump intends to pull out of the global accord stands in stark contrast to overwhelming public and scientific agreement on the causes and solutions to climate change. Trump’s decision will be a self-inflicted wound on our allies’ trust in American leadership. The Paris Agreement was a vision reflecting decisive action, hope, ingenuity, and the ideals with which we would define our country’s place in the world. Withdrawal from that agreement represents a triumph of ignorance, nativism, and political pandering, and the message it sends to other countries will be disastrous for the relationships which have built and sustained our prosperity. We know that doubling down on harmful carbon pollution is not the path to a cleaner, safer world. Today, I redouble my commitment to strong environmental protections, to ensure the United States is in a position to rejoin the agreement and meet our pledged targets once we have new leadership.”
05.30.2017	Representatives Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12) and Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08) today sent a letter to newly-confirmed Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Jay Clayton urging him to take action on women’s under-representation on America’s corporate boards. “For years, studies have demonstrated that companies benefit from diverse leadership, yet women still lag behind in board representation,” said Rep. Maloney. “Former Chair Mary Jo White started an important review during her tenure leading the SEC and I hope that our new chair, Jay Clayton, will follow through. As we make clear in our letter, if we do not act, it will take 40 years or more for women to achieve parity in the boardroom. We know that companies with diverse leadership perform better, so encouraging gender parity is a win-win for the women getting the seats at the tables they deserve and for the companies they help to grow.” “Companies sell themselves, their investors, and the American economy short when they leave women off their corporate boards,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “The SEC has the opportunity and ability to enforce the transparency that is critical to securing gender balanced corporate leadership. Boardrooms with gender parity lead stronger, healthier companies, return more to their shareholders, and help our economy grow.” Maloney and Beyer’s letter highlighted Rep. Maloney’s legislation, the Gender Diversity in Corporate Leadership Act (H.R. 1611), which would require publicly-traded companies to disclose the gender composition of their board. The members also urged the SEC to approve a petition by leading public pension investors to require clear disclosure of board members’ gender, race, and ethnicity. In February, the SEC Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies recommended the Commission update its diversity disclosure to include “the extent to which their boards are diverse.” This recommendation mirrors the approach outlined H.R.1611. Full text of the letter below and a PDF can be found here. Dear Chairman Clayton: Congratulations on your confirmation as Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission. As you prepare your transition, we hope you will carefully consider outgoing Chair White’s review of the SEC’s proxy statement disclosure rules regarding the diversity of board nominees. For years, studies have demonstrated that companies benefit from diverse leadership, yet women still lag behind in board representation. In 2015, women made up only 26.9 percent of new directors at S&P 500 companies, and a GAO report Rep. Maloney requested found that it would take 40 years or more for women to achieve parity in the boardroom. As you know, the SEC adopted an enhanced proxy statement disclosure for board diversity in 2009. However, the information gleaned from these disclosures has proven inadequate for investors concerned about gender and ethnic diversity. Indeed, researchers have found that among the S&P 100 only about half of these disclosures referenced gender. In fact, most of these companies—the largest and most well-resourced in our country—disclosed that they lack a formal diversity policy for their board. In Congress, we have introduced bipartisan legislation to urge the SEC to clarify this disclosure, to ensure that investors have useful information about the gender of board nominees. This effort has gained support from leading investors like CalPERS, as well as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. In addition, in 2015 nine leading public fund fiduciaries wrote the Commission to express their dissatisfaction with the current diversity disclosure, and to propose an amendment to require clear indication of each nominee’s gender, race, and ethnicity. We support this proposal and urge you to act to make the diversity disclosure clearer for issuers and more useful to investors and researchers. We look forward to working with you on this and other issues, and please do not hesitate contact me with any questions or concerns as you begin your tenure. Sincerely, Carolyn B. Maloney Donald S. Beyer, Jr.
05.25.2017	Rep. Beyer issued the following statement today in response to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s score of Trumpcare’s long term effects on the US health care system: “The nonpartisan CBO says in clear terms that 217 Republicans voted to end the guarantee of protections for Americans with preexisting conditions when they passed Trumpcare last month. The CBO score says that those 217 Republicans voted to send the individual market into a death spiral in much of the country. They voted to drive 23 million Americans off of health insurance coverage. They voted to end the ban on annual and lifetime insurance caps. They voted to force many Americans to pay more while most receive less health care coverage. They voted to drive up out-of-pocket costs for ‘maternity care, mental health, and substance abuse service,’ by thousands of dollars per year for many Americans. The CBO score said all of the above, but perhaps just as importantly, it also said that individual markets are stable under current law except to the extent to which they are actively sabotaged by the exact moves which the Trump Administration has publicly proposed. The Senate should not only reject Trumpcare as passed, they should reject its basic premise of decreasing coverage for millions of Americans by slashing Medicaid in order to cut taxes for the wealthy. If Republicans are willing to set aside their years-long quest to score political points at the expense of the Affordable Care Act, there is much we could do through bipartisan action to improve the American health care system.”
05.24.2017	Rep. Beyer yesterday joined Congressman Salud Carbajal (CA-24) and Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) in introducing the Gun Violence Restraining Order Act, a bill that clears the way for states to empower families and law enforcement agencies with the tools they need to prevent future tragedies due to gun violence. “We need to give families and law enforcement officers the ability to temporarily block gun purchases to anyone currently in mental crisis,” said Rep. Beyer. “When a person is an imminent danger to themselves or others, society has a compelling responsibility to keep them from purchasing a firearm that may be used irresponsibly, and with deadly effect.” The bill would incentivize states to enable family members to go to a court to seek a “gun violence prevention order,” to temporarily stop someone who poses a threat to themselves or others from purchasing or possessing a gun. The bill will also ensure that a court can issue a “gun violence prevention warrant,” allowing law enforcement to step in if the court determines the individual poses a threat to themselves or others. “The tragedy in Isla Vista is once again a reminder of the consequences of inaction by lawmakers on the epidemic of gun violence across our nation,” said Congressman Carbajal. “Three years ago, the lives of six University of California, Santa Barbara students were cut far too short in a tragedy that could have been prevented had law enforcement been given the proper tools help those that pose a risk to themselves or to our communities. California has led the way in implementing common-sense, proven measures to reduce gun violence, but this cannot be the end of our efforts to address gun violence throughout the United States.” The bill was introduced on the third anniversary of the tragic shooting in Isla Vista, California. Richard Martinez, the father of an Isla Vista shooting victim said: "Our 20 year old son, Christopher, was shot and killed three years ago in the Isla Vista rampage. Every day more than 90 Americans are shot and killed. With each new tragedy, it becomes increasingly hard for Congress to justify their inaction and complicity in our nation's gun violence epidemic. I urge our lawmakers to act - pass this legislation so that not one more family has to live through my family's nightmare." U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein will introduce The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act in the Senate. “One common thread that runs through mass shootings in this country is that family and friends were often aware that the perpetrators had significant mental illnesses and posed a threat to themselves or others,” said Senator Feinstein. “The family of the Isla Vista shooter had called law enforcement, fearing what their son might do. Families have little recourse if they want to ensure their loved ones do not get their hands on guns that they could use to kill themselves or other people. Our bill would help states establish a court process to allow that to happen. Senator Boxer first introduced this bill and I’m proud to carry her work forward.” While states like California and Connecticut have led the way on important measures to combat gun violence, this bill would encourage other states to adopt proven preventative measures by establishing a federal grant program to help pay for their implementation. “In Connecticut, nearly two decades of evidence shows that empowering families and law enforcement to prevent gun violence saves lives,” Congresswoman Esty said. “While Connecticut, California, and other states have taken important steps forward, in most states, families are powerless to do anything to prevent loved ones who may be an extreme risk to themselves or others from owning or possessing firearms. That puts all of our communities at risk. It’s long past time for Congress to learn the lessons of the Isla Vista tragedy – and the 100,000 gun-related deaths and more than 200,000 injuries since that day – and take action to protect American families.” Background: The Gun Violence Restraining Order Act would encourage states to take the following steps to help prevent gun violence: • Enable families and others to go to court to seek a gun violence prevention order to temporarily stop someone close to them who poses a threat to themselves or others from purchasing a firearm; • Enable courts to issue a gun violence prevention warrant that would allow law enforcement to take temporary possession of firearms that are in an individual’s possession if the court determines that the individual poses a threat to themselves or others; and • Ensure that law enforcement makes full use of all existing state and local gun databases when assessing a tip, warning, or request from a concerned family member or other close associate. Read the full bill text here.
05.24.2017	Rep. Beyer issued the following statement today upon learning that Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe would pardon his constituent, Liliana Cruz Mendez, for the minor driving offense which led to her Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) deportation order. “I’m very happy with this move by Governor McAuliffe to protect a Virginia family,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Helping Liliana is exactly what I hoped and expected the Governor to do. What a contrast between his actions and the senseless move by the Trump Administration to split up a family, a move which deeply hurts American children and won’t help anyone at all.” Liliana Cruz Mendez is the mother of two children, Danyca (4) and Steven (10), who are US citizens, with her husband Rene Bermudez, who is applying for asylum. The family lives in Falls Church, Virginia. She was born in El Salvador and came to the United States as a teenager. She was stopped at the border and released, and has since checked in at regular intervals with ICE. At her last ICE check-in, which followed new Trump Administration immigration orders, she was detained and a deportation order was issued in connection with a minor driving offense four years ago. Governor McAuliffe today pardoned this offense.
05.23.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement today on the Trump budget: “While President Trump’s budget will not pass Congress, it is nonetheless a telling statement of Republican priorities: cutting taxes for the wealthy while gutting innumerable programs and agencies that protect the most vulnerable. The Trump budget is rooted in fantasy. It will not generate the constant three percent growth that is the premise for massive tax cuts, nor does it even account for the cost of those cuts in the first place. It would gut the safety net needed by millions of Americans. Despite Trump's campaign promises to the contrary, this budget would kick nearly 14 million Americans out of federal health care programs, ultimately cutting Medicaid in half. These cuts would hurt millions of American veterans. Trump’s $193 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program would leave millions of Americans hungry. Trump’s proposal to slash Social Security Disability Insurance destroys the household budget millions of hurt, sick, or injured Americans rely on to make ends meet each month. The budget also contains cuts to the Children’s Health Insurance Program which could jeopardize the health care for millions of children in poor and working families. The budget’s effects on scientific research and environmental protection, ranging from massive cuts to the EPA and NIH to elimination of funds that create clean energy jobs, would hurt our economy, our ability to fight climate change, and efforts to protect clean air and water. Trump’s proposal for the defense budget is implausible, with ambitious plans to scale down spending in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Syria, despite no concrete military plan to do so and a ‘Commander in Chief’ uninterested in the kind of international diplomacy that avoids future conflicts. Trump’s plan is an inhumane wish list to Republican lawmakers looking to reward the wealthiest Americans at the expense of everyone else. I encourage my colleagues to work earnestly to improve upon this disaster to reach a budget agreement that funds our investment in American families and keeps the government running past September.”
05.23.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), Vice-Ranking Member of the House Science Committee, along with Reps. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Paul Tonko (D-NY) today led 58 Representatives in pressing Energy Secretary Rick Perry to immediately release funds currently withheld to previously-approved projects at the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). They also asked the Secretary to clarify the Department of Energy’s procedures for approving and funding grants, after Members of Congress from both parties expressed frustration with departmental processes which have recently become opaque and confusing. The Representatives wrote: “Federal agencies are then required by law to direct appropriations to the programs for which they are dedicated. In both FY 2016 and FY 2017, Congress explicitly appropriated funds to the Department of Energy to fulfill ARPA-E’s legally authorized mission… …Agencies may not thwart the intent of Congress by withholding or impounding funds directed for a specific purpose. Inhibiting the flow of funds or interfering with the execution of appropriations in the manner directed by Congress is unlawful. This law, the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, was signed into law after President Richard Nixon’s impoundment of appropriated funds.” Rep. Beyer led appropriations requests for FY17 and FY18 to fully fund ARPA-E. The Trump “skinny” budget attempted to eliminate the agency, but it ultimately received a slight budget increase under the Continuing Resolution which he signed in early May. The letter was signed by 58 Democratic Representatives. The full text of the letter follows, and a copy with signatures is available here. The Honorable Rick Perry Secretary of Energy U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence Ave., SW Washington, DC 20585–1615 Dear Secretary Perry: We write today to request additional information regarding why prior year appropriated funds are not being obligated to the Department of Energy’s (DOE’s) Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) projects, particularly those that have already been competitively selected for awards. On April 26, 2017, Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, wrote to you to inquire why ARPA-E initiated a “no contract action” order in which funds were not being disbursed for already approved grants. The May 4, 2017 response from Department of Energy Chief of Staff Brian McCormack failed to answer her question directly. Instead the response obliquely referenced that funding grants and cooperative agreements were being reviewed to ensure they are consistent with fiscal year (FY) 2018 administration priorities and that “the Department continues to honor commitments for funds previously obligated for financial assistance awards.” First and foremost, it should be noted that appropriations for FY 2016 and FY 2017 are not retroactively reviewable under the lens of FY 2018 priorities. Appropriations for FY2016 and FY2017 are already approved by Congress and signed into law by the President. Federal agencies are then required by law to direct appropriations to the programs for which they are dedicated. In both FY 2016 and FY 2017, Congress explicitly appropriated funds to the Department of Energy to fulfill ARPA-E’s legally authorized mission. Congress appropriated $291 million for ARPA-E in FY2016, over $70 million of which remains unobligated despite awardees already being selected and several Department-issued public announcements. We request that you immediately release all of these FY 2016 funds to these competitively selected project awardees. Further, we have concerns about the review process for the pending and future funding announcements and determinations described in Mr. McCormack’s memorandum. While we understand new Administrations and agencies periodically re-evaluate programs, the process described by Mr. McCormack establishes DOE’s Office of Management, which does not have the technical expertise to intervene in or override a competitive grant selection process for advanced research projects, as the prime location for review of these awards. The memorandum indicates that Mr. McCormack’s office will, at some unspecified date in the future and after some unspecified review process, notify Departmental Heads when the pending funds under review are “ready for release.” This lack of accountability and transparency should be rectified. Agencies may not thwart the intent of Congress by withholding or impounding funds directed for a specific purpose. Inhibiting the flow of funds or interfering with the execution of appropriations in the manner directed by Congress is unlawful. This law, the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, was signed into law after President Richard Nixon’s impoundment of appropriated funds. In summary, we request the following: 1. The immediate release of all remaining FY 2016 funds for projects that have already been competitively selected, or, failing that, a date by which we can expect the full funding of all selected projects. 2. The timeline and criteria for the new review process at the DOE’s Office of Management for pending and future Department funding. 3. The expected timeline for obligating FY 2017 ARPA-E funds. Secretary Perry, you have previously stated that supporting ARPA-E is crucial to advancing America’s energy economy. As you know, ARPA-E programs are vital to our leadership in energy innovation and maximizing our country’s continuing efforts to develop clean energy technologies. Small businesses and other grant recipients who have already moved forward with their research projects, their staffing adjustments, and their procurement decisions did so in good faith. The withholding of anticipated funds will cause those companies and researchers unnecessary hardship and could inhibit their success. The Department of Energy should honor our country’s desire and commitment to lead in this important sector and to support U.S. technology focused companies. We look forward to the Department updating us frequently regarding its progress in this regard. Sincerely, ________________________ _________________________ _______________________ Donald S. Beyer Jr. Paul Tonko Anna G. Eshoo
05.19.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today urged the Trump Administration to expel the Turkish Ambassador to the United States after President Erdogan’s bodyguards attacked peaceful protesters outside the Turkish Embassy earlier in the week. “President Trump should immediately expel the Turkish Ambassador to the United States,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “President Erdogan’s attacks on human rights and democratic institutions in Turkey are disgraceful, but condoning such attacks on American soil betrays our deepest values. As someone who has represented my country abroad as an ambassador, I have a special appreciation for the vital role that envoys play and the expectations for honorable behavior that come with this responsibility. These actions fall grievously short of that standard, and the US must take a stand.” Rep. Beyer was appointed by President Barack Obama to be the United States Ambassador to Switzerland and Lichtenstein in 2009 and served in that post until 2013. Video of the violent confrontation on Tuesday, May 16, which took place on Embassy Row in Washington DC, showed that President Erdogan watched from a car as his bodyguards assaulted peaceful protesters across the street.
05.18.2017	Rep. Don Beyer, Vice-Ranking Member of the House Science Committee, today led Democratic Members of the Committee in urging President Trump to appoint a reliable Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP). They also urged him to avoid inaccurate articles and pseudoscience. Their letter was written following a report that Trump reacted strongly to fake Time magazine articles which he believed to be real, which were shared with him by his Deputy National Security Advisor. The Representatives wrote: “We are concerned about the process by which you receive information… Disseminating stories from dubious sources has been a recurring issue with your administration. “…Until the OSTP is adequately staffed and the director position filled by a qualified, objective scientist who understands the difference between alternative news peddled on alt-right websites and legitimate well-vetted scientific facts, we fear that you will continue to be vulnerable to misinformation and fake news. Relying on factual technical and scientific data has helped make America the greatest nation in the world. We therefore urge you to quickly appoint a qualified, widely-respected candidate to direct OSTP.” The letter was signed by House Science Committee members: Don Beyer, Suzanne Bonamici, Mark Takano, Bill Foster, Jerry McNerney, Zoe Lofgren, and Jacky Rosen. Congress established the Office of Science and Technology Policy in 1976 to provide the White House with sound, informed advice on science and technology. The Office has been short-staffed and without a Director since the beginning of the Trump administration. Full text of the letter follows, and a signed copy can be found here. Dear President Trump: We are concerned about the process by which you receive information. According to a story reported by Politico on May 15, 2017, your Deputy National Security Advisor passed along printouts of two Time magazine cover stories – one, a previously identified and debunked internet hoax purporting to be from the 1970s warning of a coming ice age, and the other, from 2008, a special report on global warming, with the intention of undermining concern about climate change. Disseminating stories from dubious sources has been a recurring issue with your administration. You previously made the false claim that President Obama ordered your phones to be “tapped” based on false reports which have subsequently been contradicted by senior U.S. intelligence officials. You also falsely stated that millions of votes were cast against you “illegally” after reading about subsequently-debunked “research” pushed by alt-right websites. This, by no means, is a comprehensive list of your activities peddling fake news. Where scientific policy is concerned, the White House should make use of the latest, most broadly-supported science. You have a tool at your disposal in this regard, should you wish to make use of it, in the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) which, under your administration, has been left largely unstaffed and without a director. If you appoint a qualified OSTP Director, you will have a reliable source of policy advice for matters related to science and technology, which forms the bedrock of our national security and economic power. Until the OSTP is adequately staffed and the director position filled by a qualified, objective scientist who understands the difference between alternative news peddled on alt-right websites and legitimate well-vetted scientific facts, we fear that you will continue to be vulnerable to misinformation and fake news. Relying on factual technical and scientific data has helped make America the greatest nation in the world. We therefore urge you to quickly appoint a qualified, widely-respected candidate to direct OSTP. Furthermore, it’s critical that anyone you nominate represent the views of the broader scientific community, as was the case for both Presidents Bush and Obama.
05.17.2017	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today on reports that Donald Trump asked James Comey to end the FBI’s criminal investigation of Michael Flynn: “Congress must seek answers and all available evidence of reports that Donald Trump dissuaded former FBI Director James Comey from pursuing an investigation into Michael Flynn’s contacts with Russian officials. We also urgently need a special prosecutor to find the truth of the larger Trump-Russia story. What tapes of the exchange detailed in the Comey memo exist? Who at the Department of Justice, including AG Sessions, knew of the memo and possible obstruction attempt? What are the contents of the conversations with Donald Trump detailed in the other Comey memos which are reported to exist? These are questions we must ask, and the public has a right to the answers. If Donald Trump did indeed ask James Comey to “let” the Flynn investigation “go,” that would be a clear case of obstruction of justice. The FBI is not the President’s personal police force, and his reported request that the FBI “lock up” journalists should underscore the deep peril facing our democracy if he is allowed to treat it as such.”
05.17.2017	Rep. Don Beyer welcomed Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe’s Executive Directive 11, announced at Alexandria Renew yesterday, which requires Virginia’s Department of Environmental Quality to establish new environmental safeguards that would reduce carbon pollution from power plants. “While the Trump Administration and EPA Administrator Pruitt abdicate responsibility to address the global threat from climate change, Governor McAuliffe’s actions at the state level to reduce Virginia’s carbon emissions are a welcome sight,” said Rep. Beyer, who serves as Vice-Ranking Member of the House Science Committee. “This is what responsible leadership looks like. I thank the Governor and his team for prioritizing solutions to reduce carbon pollution, continue creating clean energy jobs, protect our environment, and take Virginia forward.” Executive Directive 11 will allow for Virginia’s regulatory bodies to establish environmentally safe standards for power plants to reduce carbon output, a principle factor in climate change. Sea level rise caused by global climate change is already impacting Virginia’s coastal communities, businesses, residential, and commercial properties. The persistence of extreme weather events, such as flooding and storm surges, could cost the Commonwealth nearly $100 billion dollars solely for residential real estate, in addition to an increased risk of drought, adverse health effects, and further economic damage.
05.15.2017	Vice-Ranking Member of the House Science Committee Rep. Don Beyer last week led a bipartisan group of more than 100 Members of the House of Representatives in urging Department of Interior (DOI) Secretary Ryan Zinke to keep Atlantic and Pacific oceans off-limits to new oil and gas leases. The Representatives wrote: “We do not believe that new oil and gas exploration or production activity in the Atlantic and Pacific Outer Continental Shelf is compatible with the sustainable coastal economies on which so many of our constituents and communities depend. ”As you conduct a review of our nation’s existing oil and gas leases, we again strongly urge you to reject proposals to open the Atlantic and Pacific OCS Regions to new offshore drilling and exploration.” Beyer recently introduced the Seismic Airgun Protection Act to protect marine life and coastal economies from seismic airgun blasting, and is the cosponsor of legislation to ban offshore drilling in the Atlantic Ocean. The letter notes that the tourism and fishing industries, both directly threatened by offshore drilling accidents, are a $63 billion economy supporting 1.3 million jobs on the U.S. East Coast and a $26 billion economy supporting 536,000 jobs on the West Coast. The letter--signed by over 100 Members of Congress--is co-led by Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Anthony Brown (D-MD), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Mark Sanford (R-SC), and Niki Tsongas (D-MA). Secretary Zinke is currently examining the United States offshore oil and gas leasing program pursuant to the terms of an executive order signed by President Trump on April 28. The executive order directed the DOI to review and potentially re-start the oil and gas lease sale planning process—possibly including the Atlantic or Pacific oceans—which the Obama Administration completed in January covering the years 2017 through 2022. Full text of the letter is available here.
05.04.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement on the passage of “Trumpcare” in the House of Representatives: “The passage of Trumpcare is a dark stain on the history of the House of Representatives. Republican leaders forced this bill on the country without knowing what effect it would have on millions of Americans and one sixth of our economy. They don’t know what this updated bill will do, or how much it will hurt people, and yet they have rushed it to passage following no hearings, no score from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, no time to read or consider the bill’s text, and a paltry amount of floor debate. We do know that it will lead to loss of health care coverage for an estimated 24 million Americans, eliminate essential health benefits, jeopardize coverage for people with preexisting conditions, drive up costs for Americans while providing them with skimpier coverage, cut tax credits for millions of veterans, gut funding for Planned Parenthood, and ration care for children with disabilities. A bill that does those things should never have been considered at all, and certainly not without a CBO score or legitimate debate.”
05.03.2017	Rep. Don Beyer made the following statement today on the omnibus bill, which is expected to be signed into law this week: “This omnibus funding bill represents the product of a bipartisan agreement, and as such required compromise from both sides. It does not contain everything I’d like, but the most important thing is that we reached a deal that will keep the government open without the worst budget cuts and most irresponsible policy riders sought by House Republicans and the White House. I’m particularly pleased that the omnibus protects environmental agencies and scientific research about which I have been vocal during the budget process: · The budget for Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E), headquartered in Arlington, which I asked appropriators to protect as the White House sought to eliminate it, saw a modest budget increase. · The Environmental Protection Agency is funded at nearly the same level that it was last year, funding which prevents any staff cuts and protects the Chesapeake Bay cleanup program. · Scientific research funding was also increased at NASA and the National Science Foundation, both of which have a presence in Northern Virginia. The funding bill protects the $150 million federal contribution to WMATA. I sent a letter to House appropriators in March asking them to continue this crucial funding. The National Institutes of Health, which President Trump had sought to cut by $2 billion, saw a significant funding increase, and the budget agreement also contains $600 million which Democrats sought to fight the opioid epidemic. We finally obtained permanent health benefits for coal miners, which the White House admitted to having used as a bargaining chip. The bill also restores year-round access to Pell Grant funding for students. The agreement is also notable for what it does not contain: · It does not block Medicaid reimbursement to Planned Parenthood clinics. · It does not attempt to undermine cost-sharing reduction payments that help control costs for health insurance on the individual market. · It has been stripped of a large number of harmful policy riders, including attempts to weaken the Endangered Species Act and Dodd-Frank financial reform. · It contains no funding at all for President Trump’s misguided border wall. Given that this bill preserves funding for key programs while also protecting the livelihoods of the federal workers and contractors who represent a key element of Northern Virginia’s economy, I will vote “yes” on the omnibus funding bill.”
05.02.2017	Reps. Don Beyer, David Cicilline, Bill Pascrell, and Pramila Jayapal yesterday led 106 House Democrats in calling upon President Trump to help innocent Syrians by rescinding his Executive Order suspending the Refugee Admissions Program and to maintain support for humanitarian aid programs that assist Syrians in crisis. “It is time for the United States to step up and show the world that we are not indifferent to the grave suffering of the Syrian people. Again, we urge you to safely resettle Syrian refugees into our country, and to maintain funding for those who need our help the most. Doing so would maintain American humanitarian leadership and send a message of hope to oppressed people all over the world,” wrote the Representatives. The letter was supported by the International Rescue Committee and the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS), signed by 106 Democratic Members of Congress: Don Beyer, David Cicilline, Bill Pascrell, Pramila Jayapal, Zoe Lofgren, John Conyers, Jr., Eliot L. Engel, Bobby L. Rush, Alcee L. Hastings, Sheila Jackson Lee, Joe Crowley, Luis V. Gutiérrez, Chellie Pingree, Barbara Lee, Gwen Moore, Steve Cohen, Julia Brownley, Ted W. Lieu, Frank Pallone, Jr., Suzanne Bonamici, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Mark DeSaulnier, Grace F. Napolitano, Earl Blumenauer, Tony Cárdenas, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Filemon Vela, Bradley S. Schneider, Val Butler Demings, Peter Welch, Debbie Dingell, Niki Tsongas, Rick Larsen, Doris Matsui, Kathy Castor, John K. Delaney, James P. McGovern, Mark Pocan, Paul D. Tonko, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Colleen Hanabusa, Judy Chu, Jamie Raskin, Ted Deutch, Raúl M. Grijalva, Elijah E. Cummings, Alan Lowenthal, Carolyn B. Maloney, Robin L. Kelly, John Yarmuth, Jerrold Nadler, Adam B. Schiff, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Mark Takano, Nydia M. Velázquez, Gerald E. Connolly, Bill Foster, Robert A. Brady, Dwight Evans, Seth Moulton, Derek Kilmer, Norma J. Torres, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Stephen F. Lynch, Anna G. Eshoo, Louise Slaughter, Gene Green, Adriano Espaillat, Elizabeth H. Esty, Michael E. Capuano, A. Donald McEachin, G. K. Butterfield, J. Luis Correa, Gregory W. Meeks, Lois Frankel, David E. Price, Juan Vargas, José E. Serrano, Albio Sires, Jared Polis, Grace Meng, Tim Ryan, Cheri Bustos, Thomas R. Suozzi, Ruben J. Kihuen, Sander M. Levin, Salud O. Carbajal, Yvette D. Clarke, Ruben Gallego, Jan Schakowsky, Matt Cartwright, Bobby Scott, Betty McCollum, Suzan DelBene, Keith Ellison, Adam Smith, Al Lawson, Jr., Katherine Clark, Mike Doyle, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Anthony G. Brown, Jimmy Panetta, Ben Ray Lujan, Nanette Diaz Barragan, Ro Khanna, and Jared Huffman. Text of the letter follows, and a signed copy is available here. Dear Mr. President: In light of the recent U.S. airstrikes in Syria and your acknowledgment and condemnation of the cruel atrocities the Syrian government has committed against its own people, we urge you to immediately take effective action to help innocent Syrians. As you stated, “Assad choked out the lives of helpless men, women and children. It was a slow and brutal death for so many. Even beautiful babies were cruelly murdered in this very barbaric attack. No child of God should ever suffer such horror.” That is why we are asking you to immediately rescind your Executive Order dated March 6, 2017 which suspends the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program for 120 days and to fully mobilize U.S. government efforts to assist Syrian refugees from this horrific war who are simply seeking safety for themselves and their families. In 2016, the United Nations identified an estimated 13.5 million Syrians who require humanitarian assistance inside Syria. Over five million Syrians have fled dangerous conditions to seek safety as refugees in neighboring countries. We believe it is imperative that the U.S. regain its leadership role and help resettle the thousands of Syrians who have been victimized by an oppressive regime. The U.S. has a long history of resettling refugees. Refugees are the most thoroughly vetted individuals entering the U.S., undergoing the scrutiny of the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the National Counterterrorism Center and the intelligence community. Syrian refugees are also subject to “enhanced” review which involves an additional layer of scrutiny at DHS prior to an in-person interview by a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) adjudicator. At a time when there are more refugees, asylum-seekers, and displaced persons than at any time since World War II, the U.S. cannot stand idly by. We also ask that you prioritize supporting U.S. foreign aid, which helps respond to humanitarian crises around the world. American assistance is a crucial lifeline and helps maintain global stability worldwide. Cuts to American foreign assistance, particularly to humanitarian programs, will only exacerbate the suffering of millions of refugees and further destabilize the Middle East. Global threats like ISIS grow out of instability, and the humanitarian crises that result, if left insufficiently attended, only lead to further destabilization. We strongly urge you to maintain our funding commitment to effectively prevent these global threats from finding roots. It is time for the United States to step up and show the world that we are not indifferent to the grave suffering of the Syrian people. Again, we urge you to safely resettle Syrian refugees into our country, and to maintain funding for those who need our help the most. Doing so would maintain American humanitarian leadership and send a message of hope to oppressed people all over the world. Thank you for your consideration, we look forward to your response and future actions. Sincerely,
05.02.2017	Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s call for a “good ‘shutdown’ in September:” “There is nothing ‘good’ about a government shutdown that would furlough 800,000 federal employees indefinitely, including nearly 70,000 in Northern Virginia. The federal government does not turn on and off like a light switch. Critical medical and scientific research is put on hold; shipping container inspections at our ports are halted; Social Security and Medicare benefits are delayed and mortgages are missed. I can think of no worse example of leadership than to call and hope for such an unmitigated disaster. President Trump might think this is the art of the deal, but it is not how government functions, not what the American people demand of their political leaders, and not what this country asked for in November.” Beyer represents more federal workers than any other Representative.
04.28.2017	Vice-Ranking Member of the House Science Committee Rep. Don Beyer today issued the following statement on President Trump’s Executive Order to expand drilling and petroleum exploration in the Atlantic and Arctic Oceans: “This decision by President Trump is another gift to the fossil fuel industry from an Administration that has shown unprecedented hostility to environmental protection. His Order is misguided, bad for coastal economies, and represents more destructive apathy on climate change. The good news is that today’s Executive Order will not be the last word on drilling. An array of environmental groups has already announced their intention to challenge this move in court. Coastal communities, whose economies will be hardest hit by any drilling and associated seismic activity, will continue to block petroleum exploration with legislation at the state and local level. And my bill in Congress to ban seismic airgun blasting in the Atlantic, the Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection Act, continues to gain support from both sides of the aisle.” Rep. Beyer, who also serves on the House Natural Resources Committee, introduced legislation earlier this week with Republican Representative Frank LoBiondo, of New Jersey, to protect marine life in the Atlantic from seismic airgun blasting.
04.27.2017	Congressman Don Beyer and Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) today announced that they have introduced legislation to halt permits for seismic airgun blasting on the Atlantic seaboard. Petroleum companies use seismic blasting in their surveying process, but the practice has significant, adverse effects on marine species. The Atlantic Seismic Airgun Protection Act would halt the practice. “The seismic pulses from airgun blasts threaten the aquatic species many coastal communities depend on,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Marine life and ocean biodiversity are essential not only to coastal environments, but to local and regional tourism, recreation, and fishing industries.” Seismic airgun pulses are loud, repetitive, explosive sounds used to identify oil and gas reservoirs deep in the ocean floor. Sound travels so efficiently under water that seismic blasts can cause hearing damage, stress, and other harm to numerous aquatic species, including the critically endangered North Atlantic right whale. “The ecological damage and negative economic impact caused by seismic testing is clear, which is why there is near-unanimous opposition from local concerned residents, commercial and recreational fishermen, and environmentalists along the Jersey Shore. This bipartisan legislation reaffirms my strong opposition to seismic airgun testing in waters off South Jersey,” said Congressman Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02). Offshore petroleum extraction in the Atlantic was blocked until 2022 following an Obama-era decision by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), but that action is reportedly under review by the Trump Administration. President Obama denied all pending permits for seismic airgun blasting just before leaving office, and the Trump Administration is likely to reopen permitting. “Oceana thanks Reps. Beyer and LoBiondo for their continued leadership to stop seismic airgun blasting in the Atlantic Ocean. Along the East Coast, nearly 1.4 million jobs and over $95 billion in GDP rely on healthy ocean ecosystems, mainly through fishing, tourism and recreation. Offshore oil and gas exploration, and the drilling and spilling that follows, puts coastal communities and economies at risk,” said Nancy Pyne, climate and energy campaign director at Oceana. “Regardless of who is in the White House, coastal communities remain united in their opposition to offshore drilling activities. As of today, more than 120 municipalities, over 1,200 elected officials, and an alliance representing over 35,000 businesses and 500,000 fishing families have publicly opposed offshore drilling and/or seismic airgun blasting off the East Coast. On the eve of the Peoples Climate March, as the specter of the BP Deepwater Horizondisaster looms large, it is more important than ever to make sure that these voices are heard in Washington. Instead of pursuing seismic airgun blasting off our coasts, and expanding our dependence on dirty and dangerous offshore drilling, we should rapidly develop clean energy solutions like offshore wind.” Text of the bill may be found here.
04.24.2017	With time running out to keep the federal government open when funding expires, Virginia Congressmen Don Beyer (D-VA) and Rob Wittman (R-VA) have drafted legislation to protect federal employees’ pay in the event of a government shutdown. The Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act would guarantee back pay for all furloughed workers if Congress and the White House are unable to come to a funding agreement. “Shutting down the federal government threatens the livelihood of federal workers who carry out the nation’s vital missions,” said Rep. Beyer. “It’s inexcusable to play politics with their pay and the well-being of their households.” A shutdown would temporarily suspend paychecks for federal employees, and retroactive pay for federal workers must be approved by Congress. The Beyer-Wittman legislation would guarantee that no federal employees lose pay if a government shutdown occurs. "Federal employees should not suffer because Congress refuses to end its govern by crisis mentality," Rep. Wittman said. "Preparing the retroactive pay legislation sends a signal to our federal workers that they won't be forgotten in the unfortunate event of a shutdown. While this legislation minimizes the impacts of funding uncertainty, my focus remains on returning Congress to a regular schedule of budgeting and passing appropriations bills." Together the two Virginia Congressmen represent nearly 120,000 federal employees. "AFGE would like to thank Congressman Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Wittman (R-VA) for introducing the ‘Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,’” said American Federation of Government Employees National President J. David Cox. “Federal employees are hardworking public servants who are dedicated to providing quality public services. Federal employees and their families should not be forced to go without pay when they are not allowed to do their jobs because Congress cannot pass a funding measure. Too many Americans—veterans, seniors, and other hardworking people rely on services provided by the federal government. In a government shutdown, it is the American people who pay the price.” Funding for the federal government is set to expire at midnight on Friday, April 28. “Federal workers should not be punished if a shutdown occurs so it is good to know that Rep. Beyer and Rep. Wittman are working to make sure they are protected,” said Tony Reardon, National President of the National Treasury Employees Union. “Federal employees are middle-class taxpayers who shouldn’t be forced to go without pay just because of a political stalemate in Washington. This bill would make sure our nation’s civil servants are fully paid as soon as possible after the government reopens, which reduces the chances they’ll have to miss a house payment or run up credit card debt just to make ends meet.” Text of the legislation can be found here.
04.16.2017	Rep. Don Beyer hailed the news of the acquittal of his constituent Aya Hijazi, after three years of imprisonment without a fair trial in Egypt. Hijazi is a dual citizen of the United States and Egypt from Falls Church, Virginia. Hijazi’s co-defendants were exonerated as well, including her husband Mohamed. “This wonderful news was a long time coming,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “I feel a deep sense of joy and relief for Aya, her husband, their colleagues at Belady who were imprisoned, Aya’s mother Naglaa, and her sister Alaa and brother Basel. I offer my humble thanks and congratulations today to them and to her many friends who worked so hard to raise the profile of this case and pressure the Egyptian government to gain her freedom. Even as we clasp our hands in thanks for Aya’s release, we remember those who still suffer unjust imprisonment, in Egypt and elsewhere. That we have won a battle in the cause of human rights does not lessen the need to speak out and fight for justice around the world.” Rep. Beyer brought Aya Hijazi’s case up in a series of letters and meetings with the Obama Administration, which urged officials including Secretary of State John Kerry and President Obama to apply pressure to the Egyptian government. He held a press conference in September of 2016 at the US Capitol, where members of Hijazi’s family, their counsel at RFK Human Rights, a friend from Hijazi’s academic program at George Mason University, representatives from human rights-focused NGOs, and fellow member of the Virginia delegation Gerry Connolly called for Hijazi’s release. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton pressed Egyptian President Sisi on Hijazi’s case in an in-person meeting several days later. The White House, Secretary of State Kerry, UN Ambassador Samantha Power, and leadership of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, including Sens. Tim Kaine, Ben Cardin, Marco Rubio, and Bob Corker, among others, raised the issue as well. According to news reports, Aya Hijazi hopes to remain in Cairo caring for street children, the calling which brought her back to Egypt upon her graduation from George Mason University’s School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution.
04.14.2017	Citing a flurry of inaccuracies and misleading statements at a recent hearing on climate science, Vice Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) this week submitted a collection of scientific rebuttals to false or misleading statements made in that hearing. The rebuttals were written by scientists and experts who observed the hearing, including Harvard professor and “Merchants of Doubt” author Naomi Oreskes. Their commentary will be added to the record of that hearing. “Republicans on the House Science Committee would like to create doubt and confusion on climate change rather than contemplate solutions, but we cannot allow them to succeed,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Republicans on the Committee pack hearings with climate skeptics to dispute facts long accepted as sound science. This project gives scientists and others who are not invited to speak the chance to support their colleagues like Dr. Mann with scientific fact.” Though the overwhelming majority of scientists around the world agree that climate is changing and that humans are a cause of that change, Science Committee hearings routinely feature a panel dominated by climate skeptics. Vice Ranking Member Beyer set up a webform to collect submissions of fact checks from scientists and credentialed observers to correct the record on future hearings. Participants are also encouraged to fact check the hearings live using #FactCheckSST. Beyer also sent a letter containing a sample of the corrections to the record of the March 29 hearing, titled “Climate Science: Assumptions, Policy Implications, and the Scientific Method,” to Chairman Lamar Smith. That letter is available here. ###
04.13.2017	A group of House Democrats led by Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) today wrote to the FBI and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) requesting that they suspend White House Senior Advisor and President Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner’s security clearance, citing his admission that he “omitted” required details about meetings with foreign officials from an FBI questionnaire. The letter was signed by Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Peter Welch (D-VT), who also issued the following statement: “We were concerned last week that a story with significant national security implications – White House Senior Adviser Jared Kushner’s ‘omission’ of meetings with foreign government officials – did not receive the scrutiny it deserved. Mr. Kushner must divulge the details of his meetings with foreign officials and explain why he did not reveal them when he was clearly required by to do so by law. The fact that Kushner is President Trump’s son-in-law does not place him above the law. Anyone else would face severe discipline for failing to disclose meetings with foreign officials, a material omission which potentially amounts to a criminal offense. Furthermore, background checks for security clearances are in large part assessments of the judgment of the person being evaluated. Mr. Kushner signed a legal document that withheld details about significant meetings with foreign officials, including meetings with allies and emissaries of Vladimir Putin. This action throws Mr. Kushner’s judgment into serious question and doubt. We are gravely concerned about the larger context within which this omission occurred. Mr. Kushner’s lack of candor about meetings with Russian officials appears to be part of a larger pattern of dissembling and deception on Russian contacts from the Trump team, and we believe the public deserves the truth about why these meetings took place and what they mean for U.S. foreign policy.” Background: the New York Times’ reported on Kushner’s meetings with Russian officials and his subsequent omission of those meetings from the OPM form on Thursday, April 6, 2017. The form in question was OPM’s SF-86, “Questionnaire for National Security Positions.” Instructions on page two of that form note the following: “The U.S. Criminal Code (title 18, section 1001) provides that knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact is a felony which may result in fines and/or up to five (5) years imprisonment. In addition, Federal agencies generally fire, do not grant a security clearance, or disqualify individuals who have materially and deliberately falsified these forms, and this remains a part of the permanent record for future placements. Your prospects of placement or security clearance are better if you answer all questions truthfully and completely. You will have adequate opportunity to explain any information you provide on this form and to make your comments part of the record.” Full text of the letter follows, and a copy with signatures may be viewed here. The Honorable James Comey Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation U.S. Department of Justice 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Charles S. Phalen, Jr. Director, National Background Investigations Bureau U.S. Office of Personnel Management 1900 E Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20415 Dear Directors Comey and Phalen: We are concerned about a story reported by The New York Times on April 6, 2017, alleging Jared Kushner, a senior advisor and son-in-law to the president, failed to disclose key meetings with foreign government officials during his application process for top-secret clearance. According to the report, Mr. Kushner omitted dozens of contacts with foreign leaders from his Standard Form-86 (SF-86), including with Russian ambassador Sergey Kislyak and Sergey Gorkov, a prominent Russian banker and a graduate of the Academy of [the] Federal Security Service of Russia (FSB). Lack of candor, particularly regarding contacts with Russian officials, was a significant issue for the Trump Transition. The president fired his National Security Advisor, General Michael Flynn, for lying about foreign contacts. Attorney General Jeff Sessions recused himself from matters related to the campaign and transition after he misled the Senate Judiciary Committee about contacts with Ambassador Kislyak during his confirmation hearing. We are concerned that Jared Kushner may have engaged in similar deception. Knowingly falsifying or concealing information on a SF-86 questionnaire is a felony, punishable by up to five years in prison. Given the severity of the allegations and still unanswered questions about this administration’s recently uncovered covert dealings with Russian government and intelligence officials, we are requesting that Mr. Kushner’s interim top-secret security clearance be suspended pending a review of Mr. Kushner’s compliance with the laws and regulation governing security clearances. Additionally, we are requesting Mr. Kushner immediately make public all meetings he had with foreign government officials between June 16, 2015, the date Mr. Trump announced his candidacy for president of the United States, and January 20, 2017, the date the president was sworn in. Sincerely,
04.07.2017	Congressman Don Beyer issued the following statement today on the US military strike in Syria: “Assad is a monster and a war criminal. I look forward to the day when he is brought to justice by the Syrian people and the international community. This strike represents an escalation of U.S. involvement in the Syrian Civil War. It should have been subject to congressional debate and authorization, and certainly that must be a precondition for any further engagement. We need a credible and clear plan that will lead to positive outcomes, both for the Syrian people and the security of the United States. Furthermore, if President Trump is, as he claims, motivated by humanitarian impulses and a concern for the suffering of Syrian civilians, then we should see a redoubling of humanitarian efforts, an increase in humanitarian assistance funding, and a lifting of the refugee ban. Cruise missiles alone are not a solution.”
04.06.2017	Congressman Don Beyer and Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton wrote House Appropriations Committee Members in support of airplane noise mitigation provisions in the fiscal year Transportation-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill (T-HUD). “Airplane noise is a pervasive problem around the United States, but especially in Northern Virginia neighborhoods below ever-shifting flight paths in and out of DCA. To date, the FAA has not satisfactorily addressed the situation, while the problem has worsened in many communities. It is past time for Congress to take action, and I hope my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee heed our call.” Beyer and Norton, both members of the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus, urged the Committee to fund health studies on the effects of airplane noise. Past studies linked excessive exposure to noise with hypertension and learning difficulties. “Airplane noise caused by FAA’s new NextGen flight paths into and out of Reagan National Airport is wreaking havoc on District of Columbia neighborhoods, and it is critical that the FAA recognizes the potentially serious health effects,” said Congresswoman Norton. “Our constituents have raised concerns, and a new independent health study is the least we can do in order to fully understand the impact of airplane noise. The Quiet Skies Caucus will continue to press this important national issue in order to get action from the FAA and remedies for our communities.” Due to mounting levels of noise in communities nation-wide, mostly stemming from implementation of the FAA’s NextGen program, the Members stressed the need for an updated FAA-led study. Beyer and Norton also requested that the Appropriators include language directing the FAA to expedite its review of current noise standards.
03.30.2017	Today Reps. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), José E. Serrano (NY-15), and Don Beyer (VA-08) introduced new legislation aimed at protecting sensitive locations during immigration enforcement efforts. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act will prohibit immigration enforcement, including arrests, interviews, searches, and surveillance at "sensitive locations" that include areas such as medical or health care facilities, public and private schools, places of worship, courthouses, DMV offices, and locations that provide emergency services. “The aggressive implementation of President Trump’s xenophobic and anti-immigrant policies by ICE creates fear and anxiety in our communities,” said Rep. Beyer. “Children attending school, patients in need of medical care, and families going to church should not stay away in fear that those locations could be the target of ICE raids. I am proud to introduce today’s bill that would restrict ICE activity at these sensitive locations.” “Our intent with the Protecting Sensitive Locations Act is to prohibit law enforcement from making arrests and detentions at highly sensitive locations, such as places of worship, schools, hospitals and public locations,” said Rep. Espaillat. “Individuals should not be subject to arrest while mourning loved ones at funerals or while dropping off their child for school. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act holds law enforcement accountable and ensures that they adhere to the letter of the law.” “Our immigrant communities deserve to be safe and to feel secure when accessing justice, seeking education and health care, or practicing their faith,” said Rep. Bonamici. “Recent ICE action has been aggressive and mean-spirited, and it does not improve the safety of our communities. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act will keep ICE out of sensitive locations and make sure immigrant families can take their kids to school, go to worship, or seek protective orders and police assistance. This legislation is desperately needed.” “In recent weeks, my office has received deeply troubling reports of ICE agents at sensitive and important locations in my district. ICE activities at these vital, essential locations create a disincentive for immigrants, even those who are documented, from doing things like accessing basic benefits, reporting crimes, and ensuring their health and well- being. The Protecting Sensitive Locations Act will clearly define and expand the list of sites that currently qualify as sensitive locations, thus ensuring that they are off-limits to ICE other than in very limited circumstances – in my district and throughout the nation. It will also require a report on any type of immigration enforcement activities that take place at sensitive locations under these exceptions. President Trump has tried to intimidate communities by targeting and deporting immigrants in an indiscriminate manner but this bill will help codify common-sense limits on ICE enforcement activities and protect vulnerable immigrants’ basic rights,” said Rep. Serrano. Watch video from today’s press conference here.
03.28.2017	Reps. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA) issued scathing denunciations of President Trump’s Executive Orders on climate and the environment today. “We all want our world to be a safe, healthy place to raise our families and grow our economy. Unfortunately, the President’s action today slows down the progress we’ve been making and puts U.S. leadership on climate in question,” said Rep. Alan Lowenthal. “This executive order only kicks the climate change can further down the road, forcing future generations to suffer and deal with it. With a stroke of his pen, President Trump has pushed the collective head of the U.S. government further into the sand on climate change.” “President Trump’s executive orders represent a multi-pronged retreat from American global leadership on the existential threat of our time: climate change,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “His failure to understand basic economics – that coal jobs were hurt by natural gas and automation – in favor of campaign rhetoric is shocking. President Trump could have acted to take our country, our economy, and our environment forward. But rather he chose to vacate U.S. leadership in the fight to address global carbon pollution.” The Executive Orders, signed by the President in a ceremony at the headquarters of the Environmental Protection Agency, require that agency to begin unraveling the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan, a central pillar of the US strategy to fight climate change. They also direct federal agencies to end the use of the metric known as the “social cost of carbon,” which factors the impact on climate into agency decisions. Another order directs the Department of the Interior to lift its moratorium on coal and gas development on public lands.
03.16.2017	Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) compiled the following lowlight reel from President Trump’s first attempt at a budget blueprint. "Budgets reflect values. President Trump wants to spend more on defense and border security while making huge cuts to what they defend: our people, our health, and our environment. These extreme cuts will hit my constituents particularly hard, including many federal workers at the State Department and Environmental Protection Agency. But their pain will be felt across the entire country. I don't believe that the American people want their health, education, safety, or environment to suffer from severe cuts, and I don't believe that they will support this radical budget which cuts the agencies which protect them," said Rep. Beyer. 1. Cruel cuts to the most vulnerable: The Trump Budget cuts funding for WIC, the nutrition program for women, infants and children. It eliminates Community Development Block Grants, which provide critical funding to local programs and projects around the country such as Meals on Wheels and low-income housing. It cuts a further billion dollars from programs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which create affordable housing and revitalize struggling communities. It eliminates the Legal Services Corporation, which provides legal assistance to those who can’t afford it themselves, making our system of justice even less equitable. The budget also does away with the regional commissions and authorities, such as the Appalachian Regional Commission, which help the poorest areas of our country. 2. Slashing environmental protection: The budget decimates the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), eliminating more than 50 programs and 3,200 jobs. This includes discontinuing funding for international climate-change programs, cutting funding for the Office of Research and Development in half and large reductions of funding for the Superfund cleanup program and the Office of Enforcement and Compliance. The attack on our environment doesn’t stop with the EPA. Trump cuts funding from NASA’s study of Earth science, terminating four missions aimed at understanding climate-change. At the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the budget slashes $250 million from coastal research programs that ready communities for rising seas and worsening storms. At the Department of Energy, the budget eliminates climate-change prevention programs, including pledged payments to United Nations climate-change programs, and eliminates the successful Energy Star program. 3. Threatening our health and eroding our scientific edge: The Trump Budget cuts the National Institutes of Health by nearly 20 percent, curtailing research into our most pressing medical challenges. Trump cuts $900 million from the Office of Science at the Department of Energy and eliminates ARPA-E which is the source of some of the world’s most cutting-edge energy research. 4. Reducing our role in the world: While boosting defense funding, Trump neuters our ability to use diplomacy and aid to protect our national security without resorting to force. State and the U.S. Agency for International Development face cuts of nearly 29 percent: This includes eliminating climate-change initiatives, slashing foreign aid, contributions to the United Nations, funding for development banks, the US Institute of Peace and valuable cultural exchanges. 5. Just plain counterproductive: The Trump Budget further cuts $239 million from an already reduced IRS budget, despite the impact this has had on taxpayer services and the fact that a dollar spent on tax enforcement yields four dollars to the Treasury. 6. American road rage: The Trump budget reduces investments in transportation infrastructure, with cuts to the popular TIGER grant program. It also greatly reduces the New Starts program’s ability to fund transit projects. Both programs are heavily relied upon in the region for road and Metro improvements. 7. Targeting Immigrants and Weakening our Security: While the budget wastes billions on a needless and ineffective border wall and a cruel deportation policy, Trump cuts hundreds of millions from anti-terrorism and disaster relief programs, including grants to local first responders at our airports, and makes travelers pay more every time they get on a plane. 8. Who needs culture?: Trumps annihilates federal support for cultural programs, including eliminating the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, museum and library funding, and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. 9. The Miseducation of Donald Trump: The budget cuts billions from teacher training, after-school and summer programs, and aid programs to first-generation and low-income students. It cuts work-study support, making college even more expensive. Where would this money go? In part to funding private school vouchers increasingly discredited by the latest research.
03.15.2017	Following a national surge in hate crimes, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and U.S. Representative Don Beyer (D-VA) introduced bicameral legislation today to strengthen federal laws that combat hate speech, threats, and attacks. As incidents of hate crimes continue to rise, the National Opposition to Hate, Assault, and Threats to Equality (NO HATE) Act would improve reporting and expand assistance and resources for victims of hate crimes. In a recent high-profile incident, two Indian men in Kansas were shot by a man who shouted “get out of my country” before opening fire. Meanwhile, Jewish Community Centers across the country have experienced a significant uptick in bomb threats and other attempts at intimidation. “Since the election, we have seen a deplorable uptick in hate crimes and speech targeting Jews, Muslims, Indian-Americans, immigrants, LGBTQ individuals and many other marginalized groups,” Blumenthal said. “Hate crimes don’t just harm one individual or one piece of property—they’re intended to hurt an entire community. That’s what makes hate crimes so dangerous and insidious. But that’s also why it’s so important for us to stand together in opposition to hate crimes.” “Police forces across the country should be focused on reducing hate crimes,” said Beyer. “We cannot allow the rise in anti-immigrant acts, acts of anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, and crimes against LGBTQ individuals since the election to metastasize into a culture of cruelty and intolerance. By tracking and reporting incidents of hate crimes nation-wide, we can know whether we are making progress towards their prevention.” The Southern Poverty Law Center, which supports this legislation, reported 701 acts of hateful intimidation and harassment in just the first week after the election. The FBI has also reported a nearly 7 percent increase in the number of hate crimes in 2015 compared to 2014. This was driven by an alarming 67 percent increase in the number of anti-Muslim crimes. The NO HATE Act would help combat the recent surge in hate crimes by: Helping Victims Seek Justice in the Courts: This law will establish a federal private right of action for hate crimes, offering victims of hate crimes the option to fight for remedies in civil court, and ensuring that everyone—even in states without hate crime laws on the books—can have his or her day in court. Although Connecticut has a state private right of action, most states do not. Improving Reporting of Hate Crimes: This law will improve reporting of hate crimes by supporting the implementation of and training for NIBRS, the latest crime reporting standard, in law enforcement agencies without it. This will allow law enforcement agencies to record and report detailed information about crimes, including hate crimes, to the FBI. Between 2009 and 2015, 17 percent of all law enforcement agencies failed to file a single hate crimes report, and in some states, a majority of law enforcement agencies failed to file a single hate crime report over the same period. Helping law enforcement agencies recognize and report detailed information on hate crimes and report that data to the FBI will help establish a clear picture of the threats that vulnerable communities are facing across the country. Establishing Hate Crime Hotlines: This law will provide grants for states to establish and run hate crime hotlines, to record information about hate crimes and to redirect victims and witnesses to law enforcement and local support services as needed. This will make sure that hate crimes don’t go unreported and victims get the help that they need. New York and Maryland established hate crime hotlines in November. Rehabilitating Perpetrators of Hate Crimes through Education and Community Service: This law will allow for judges to require individuals convicted under federal hate crime laws to undergo community service or education centered on the community targeted by the crime. The legislation is also co-sponsored in the Senate by U.S. Senators Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The legislation is also co-sponsored in the House by U.S. Representatives David Cicilline (D-RI), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Ron Kind (D-WI), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), and Paul Tonko (D-NY).
03.15.2017	As the President reportedly sought industry advice on whether to remain in the Paris Agreement, a bipartisan group of Representatives wrote to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urging the Administration to continue its commitment to the pact. Reps. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) and Don Beyer (D-VA), co-chairs of the Safe Climate Caucus, joined Reps. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL) and Ted Deutch (D-FL), co-chairs of the Climate Solutions Caucus, in urging the White House and the State Department to uphold American commitments to the landmark international agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. They wrote: “Stepping away from the Agreement would mean stepping away from the immense opportunities that these international investments afford American businesses and research institutions. On the other hand, fully implementing the climate agreement reached in Paris will create American jobs, boost U.S. competitiveness, and help to transform today’s low-carbon investments into trillions of dollars of clean prosperity… “We urge you to continue making the case to the Administration that the United States should not give up its seat at the table by upholding U.S. commitments made to the international community under the Paris Agreement and the UNFCCC framework.” The full text of the letter is available here.
03.07.2017	Rep. Don Beyer released the following statement today regarding the Republican health care bill: “In his address to Congress last week, the President promised a healthcare program that would ‘expand choice, increase access, lower costs, and at the same time, provide better health care.’ The bill which House Republicans unveiled last night does none of these things. It instead represents a huge tax cut for the wealthy, paid for in large part by gutting Medicaid. It shifts costs to working families and seniors, who will be forced to pay more for less coverage, and threatens Medicare’s solvency. The Republican proposal strips health coverage from millions of Americans, and weakens coverage for millions more. House Republicans know that these provisions fail to deliver on their promises, and that this bill will be wildly unpopular. That is why they are rushing the bill through without allowing time for people to learn about it, without explaining how they will pay for it, and without allowing the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office to score its effects on the deficit and on the numbers of people left uninsured. Anyone concerned about the health of Americans or the financial well-being of the country will oppose this bill.”
03.03.2017	Virginia Democrats Congressman Don Beyer and Senator Tim Kaine joined Democratic Caucus Vice Chair Congresswoman Linda Sanchez and Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chair Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham yesterday, with other elected officials and immigrants and leaders in immigration policy and advocacy, at the site of a recent ICE crackdown to decry President Trump’s abhorrent immigration Executive Orders and call for thoughtful, fair immigration policy. According to recent news reports, ICE agents targeted Rising Hope Mission Church when they allegedly apprehended at least six men in close proximity to the church. Reverend Dr. Keary Kincannon opened the conference by pointing out that the space was not only a church - it was a shelter for people at risk of hypothermia. “These new policies of the Trump administration exist to incite fear,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “They exist to make immigrants feel unwelcome, to make them flee. We are here to make sure that we do not destroy the remarkable, inimitable fabric of our nation of immigrants with scorched earth immigration policies.” “The policies of this administration are policies that divide and ‎create fear,” Senator Kaine said. “If you do things that make our immigrant communities afraid of law enforcement, our entire communities become less safe. I am just here to add my voice to the voice of these great people and made it clear we are going to stand up against this.” “When ICE goes after people seeking shelter from the cold at a church in Virginia, that affects immigrant communities in my district in California and across the country. ICE has been using heavy-handed tactics to intentionally incite fear in immigrant communities. However, raids do not make our neighborhoods safer or fix our broken immigration system. I am proud to stand with Congressman Don Beyer to protect immigrant communities everywhere,” said Democratic Caucus Vice-Chairwoman Rep. Linda Sanchez. "We support law enforcement efforts to address violent crime. But we do not support immigration policies that make all undocumented people priorities for enforcement, severely reduce due process protections, and are an affront to the values of our country. We should craft immigration policies that recognize the economic and social contributions of immigrants and uphold the protections in our constitution,” said Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairwoman Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham. Virginia State Senators Scott Surovell, Barbara Favola, and Adam Ebbin, along with Delegate Paul Krizek, Arlington County Board Vice-Chair Katie Cristol, Alexandria Mayor Allison Silberberg, and Fairfax County School Board Member Karen Corbett Sanders joined in support of undocumented immigrants. Nicholas Marritz from the Legal Aid Justice Center teleconferenced a local undocumented woman whose children were born in the United States, and translated her comments to those assembled on the legal challenges facing families like hers: “I would ask the President that he govern with wisdom, because all of us who live in this country and under this flag have rights. May he respect the dignity of all human beings who live in the United States. ‘We The People’ make America great.” Leaders from other non-governmental organizations working on behalf of undocumented individuals and families, including representatives from ACLU of Virginia, Lenka Mendoza of Dreamers Moms in Action, and Michelle LaRue of CASA attended to endorse the rights of Virginia’s undocumented population.
03.02.2017	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today regarding Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “Jeff Sessions disqualified himself to lead our Department of Justice when he lied before Congress in his confirmation hearings. He should resign immediately. The nation’s law enforcement must be above reproach; it cannot be when its highest officer perjured himself before Congress in hiding interactions with Russian officials. “Senator Sessions would not have accepted this willful dishonesty from another nominee and there is no reason he should be treated differently. The shifting explanations from the Department of Justice about Attorney General Sessions’ false statements further undermine his ability to serve. If the conversations he had with the Russian Ambassador are as unmemorable and inconsequential as he says, then certainly there was no reason to lie about them under oath.”
02.28.2017	Dr. Evan Glazer, Principal of Alexandria’s Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology, will attend President Trump’s address to a Joint Session of Congress as Rep. Don Beyer’s (D-VA) special guest. “Dr. Glazer, Thomas Jefferson High School, and its thousands of students and alumni represent the best of our public education system,” said Rep. Beyer. “He knows that success requires a committed investment to educating a multi-cultural student body to build the technologies of tomorrow. We need more educators like him fostering an inclusive, diverse, and successful atmosphere for our schools and children.” Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology is one of the most diverse and successful high schools in Northern Virginia. In 2014 Newsweek ranked it the “number one high school in America,” and it consistently ranks among the best high schools in the country. Minority students make up three quarters of those enrolled through the school’s extremely competitive admissions process, and an estimated 15-20 percent of the student body comes from immigrant families. Dr. Glazer will leave Thomas Jefferson after this school year, having led the school since 2006. He earned his B.S. in Mathematics and an M.S. in Mathematics from the University of Illinois, and a Ph.D. in Instructional Technology at the University of Georgia. He taught courses on instructional design, research methods and computer use at the university level and directed the Roanoke Valley Governor’s School for Science and Technology before joining Thomas Jefferson.
02.23.2017	Today, U.S. Representative Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05), U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD), Mark Warner (D-VA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) along with U.S. Representatives Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), John Sarbanes (MD-03), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), John Delaney (MD-06), Don Beyer (VA-08), Anthony Brown (MD-04), and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office requesting a report on the effectiveness of governance and dedicated funding structures of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority. “As we look for ways to ensure that WMATA continues to serve the National Capital Region – as a key transportation provider every day, including during events of national significance and times of crisis – we would benefit from expert analysis by GAO on the nexus of safety and operational management, governance, and dedicated funding,” the Members wrote. “Previous GAO reports have lent insight into these issues, but we believe a comprehensive analysis would be worthwhile in providing an objective picture of where WMATA is on these fronts and where it should be going in the future.” The National Capital Region delegation has pushed for aggressive Congressional oversight, met with community stakeholders, and demanded answers from WMATA leadership on repeated safety lapses. Last week, the entire congressional delegation representing the National Capital Region introduced bipartisan legislation to set up the Metro Safety Commission. This compact has been enacted by the D.C. Council; it is under active consideration in the Maryland and Virginia General Assemblies and must be approved by Congress. Full text of the letter can be found below. February 23, 2017 The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General of the United States Government Accountability Office 441 G St. NW, Room 7125 Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro: We write as a bicameral group to request a report on the effectiveness of governance and funding structures of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA). Among us we comprise almost every House and Senate member representing the footprint of the D.C. Metro, including members who sit on both House and Senate authorizing committees. Metro’s immediate safety challenges have been the focus of in-depth attention in recent years from the National Transportation Safety Board, the Federal Transit Administration, and others. The three WMATA jurisdictions and Congress are now poised to enact the needed compact legislation to set up the Metro Safety Commission, a new State Safety Oversight (SSO) body that will replace the ineffective Tri-State Oversight Committee whose oversight was seized by the Federal Transit Administration under the authority of MAP-21. In addition, congressional oversight hearings have questioned whether WMATA is optimally organized to meet the operational, management, and investment challenges facing this key transportation asset in the National Capital Region. We are also focused on how to best fund and finance WMATA in the years ahead. The WMATA Compact provides for 16 representatives (8 principals and 8 alternates) appointed by the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, the District of Columbia, and the federal government. Among other things, the Compact establishes a jurisdictional veto option; enshrines the obligation of compact members to fund the transit authority; and provides for binding arbitration for certain labor agreements. The qualifications and selection process for membership on the WMATA board is determined by the three state jurisdictions, the Northern Virginia Transportation Commission, and the U.S. Secretary of Transportation. The way each party to the Compact meets its funding obligations for operating and capital expenses varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. And while not direct parties to the Compact, other regional and local planning bodies and the private sector also have interests in WMATA’s decision-making given the importance of the system to the National Capital Region’s economy and infrastructure. As we look for ways to ensure that WMATA continues to serve the National Capital Region – as a key transportation provider every day, including during events of national significance and times of crisis – we would benefit from expert analysis by GAO on the nexus of safety and operational management, governance, and dedicated funding. Previous GAO reports have lent insight into these issues, but we believe a comprehensive analysis would be worthwhile in providing an objective picture of where WMATA is on these fronts and where it should be going in the future. In particular, we request analysis of the following issues: To what extent intersecting challenges of safety and funding are attributable to inadequate funding versus inadequate performance (and if the latter, to what extent the challenge is related to management shortcomings, dearth of workforce training, or unsatisfactory workforce performance); To what extent, if any, the structure or operation of WMATA’s Board of Directors contributes to challenges with safe or reliable operation, and what changes, if any, would improve governance of WMATA; An assessment of the current funding sources among the three state jurisdictions and the federal government, whether relative funding allocations align with the factors prescribed in the Compact, and what changes are feasible to ensure more reliable dedicated revenue after the expiration of the funds authorized in the Passenger Rail Investment & Improvement Act; What Metrorail’s long-term funding needs are for both adequate and optimal service, including capital and operating budgets, and including pension liabilities and health benefit costs; What factors account for cost overruns of major capital projects and how these factors might be mitigated in the future; Whether or not WMATA’s costs related to salaries, wages, overtime; and benefits are growing at a rate measurably different than in comparable unionized transit systems. Our staff contacts are below. We request that you contact our staff at your earliest convenience to discuss how long the analysis will take, interim updates, or other clarifying questions or discussion about the scope of this request. We also ask that you conduct this work in an expeditious manner and with the urgency that the situation clearly demands. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely,
02.16.2017	Today, Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D | Los Angeles County) and Congressman Don Beyer (D | Virginia) released a resource guide for federal employees who wish to break the Administration’s communications blackout on federal agencies. The guide explains how to safely and responsibly share information, and encourages employees to "Know Your Rights" and "Know Your Options." In the "Know Your Rights" section, federal employees can learn about which federal laws apply to them. In the "Know Your Options" section, employees can learn about how to safely disseminate information to agency inspectors general and the press. The resource guide also includes links to an in-depth list of federal whistleblower statutes and information about agency inspectors general. Statement from Rep. Lieu: “We believe the American people have a right to know how their government works. The Trump administration has strapped a muzzle on federal agencies and attacked legitimate whistleblowers. Should federal employees wish to break that silence, we want this to be a resource for the safe and responsible disclosure of information." Statement from Rep. Beyer: “From day one the Trump Administration and its allies in Congress have treated the federal workforce like a punching bag, all while issuing hostile threats to whistleblowers and dissenters. In this age of gag orders and alternative facts, it’s important that we provide federal employees tools to ensure transparency. I look forward to working with Congressman Lieu in support of good government and federal workers.” The resource guide can be found and downloaded here.
02.14.2017	Rep. Don Beyer joined Reps. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY-12), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD-5), and Jamie Raskin (D-MD-8) renewed calls to extend paid leave protections to federal workers as they reintroduced the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act (FEPPLA). Reps. Maloney, Hoyer, Beyer and Raskin were joined yesterday by AFSCME and NTEU to discuss the importance of this bill to federal workers and their families. "It’s a travesty that the U.S. government comes in last among developed nations when it comes to paid parental leave, a benefit critical to starting a healthy family,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Forcing new parents to choose between their child and a paycheck is an archaic practice that needs to end.” FEPPLA would provide federal employees six weeks of paid leave following the birth, adoption or fostering of a child. Currently, federal employees are entitled to take up to twelve weeks of unpaid Family and Medical Leave, but unpaid leave makes parents choose between a paycheck and caring for a new child during the critical first weeks. “The United States is the only industrialized nation that doesn’t provide paid parental leave for its entire workforce. Worldwide, it is only the U.S. and Papua New Guinea that have no such policy,” said Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney. “This is not only wrong; it’s bad for our economy and why today I am reintroducing the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act (FEPPLA) to provide six weeks of paid parental leave to federal employees for the birth, adoption or fostering of a child. Paid parental leave makes economic sense for families and their employers; studies have shown that workers with paid leave are more likely to return to their jobs, therefore saving companies costs of hiring and training new workers. We also know that early bonding with children is good for their development. Paid family leave makes economic sense, it makes common sense, and it makes sense for American families.” “I’m pleased to once again join Congresswoman Maloney and House Democrats in cosponsoring the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act,” said Congressman Steny H. Hoyer. “For the thousands of federal employees in the Fifth District and across the country, paid parental leave means not having to choose between caring for a loved one and keeping their job. The Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act would work to expand access to family leave and child care and set an example for the private sector. I urge my Republican colleagues to allow the consideration of this important legislation without delay.” "It should be a basic point of consensus across the spectrum of politicians who call themselves 'pro-family' that parents of newborn babies and newly adopted children should not be docked their pay for the first six weeks of taking care of their children,” said Rep. Jamie Raskin. “This important legislation will advance that crucial principle for millions of federal workers and their families across the country." “From my own family life and talking with my federal employee coworkers, I know the Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Act (FEPPLA), is very important and helpful to federal workers – especially moms,” said Federal Employee Teresa Oberti, Member of AFSCME local 3976, Council 26. “Paid parental leave is important because working parents don’t receive enough leave time, and it gets used very quickly for medical visits during pregnancy and after birth. We all know that to be healthy, moms need time off from work for child vaccinations, regular well-baby checkups, and moms’ needs. I’m happy to be part of our federal worker union, AFSCME, which advocates for paid parental leave. Federal employees thank the bipartisan bill sponsors for championing this legislation and working to get it enacted.” “Over the last ten years, while almost every major US corporation has instituted and expanded paid parental leave policies, the federal government has failed to step up for its own employees,” said National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU) National President Anthony M. Reardon. “That is why it is so important that this legislation becomes law now. As a father of four, I know personally how important it is to have the time to bond with your child. NTEU commends Congresswoman Maloney for her leadership in addressing paid parental leave for federal employees and we pledge to work with her to pass the Federal Employee Paid Parental Leave Act this Congress.” The legislation has been endorsed by 24 unions representing federal workers. A letter of endorsement can be found here. President Obama issued a memorandum in 2015 allowing federal employees to take up to six weeks of advanced sick leave. Original co-sponsors of FEPPLA in the 115th Congress are: Barbara Comstock (VA-10), Steny Hoyer (MD-5), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Don Beyer (VA-8), John Delaney (MD-6), Gwen Moore (WI-4), John Garamendi (CA-3), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Darren Soto (FL-9), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-8), Adam Smith (WA-9), Bill Keating (MA-9), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Jim Cooper (TN-5), Diana DeGette (CO-1), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Earl Blumenauer (OR-3), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), John Sarbanes (MD-3), Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-3), Nydia M. Velazquez (NY-7), Hank Johnson (GA-4), Rick Larsen (WA-2), Mark Takano (CA-41), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9), Al Green (TX-9), Madeleine Z. Bordallo (Guam), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Steve Cohen (TN-9), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-1), Niki Tsongas (MA-3), Bill Foster (IL-11), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NY-12), Derek Kilmer (WA-6), Alma Adams (NC-12), Jamie Raskin (MD-8) ###
02.14.2017	The House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology unanimously chose Don Beyer to serve as Vice-Ranking Member of the Committee. His selection for a leadership position comes as Beyer mounts high profile challenges to the Committee’s Republican majority over the Environmental Protection Agency and the Trump Administration’s cybersecurity vulnerabilities. “I thank my colleagues for choosing me to serve as Vice Ranking Member for the Science Committee,” said Rep. Beyer. “In this age of alternative facts, I will fight for scientific integrity. I look forward to working alongside Ranking Member Johnson to promote innovation and technology. While I hope to work in collaboration with my counterparts in the majority, I will not hesitate to speak out or challenge them if I feel that they are not providing adequate oversight of this administration.” Beyer was also elected to serve a second term as the top Democrat on the House Science Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, and to serve on the Space Subcommittee and the Research and Technology Subcommittee.
02.09.2017	Democratic leaders on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology sent a letter today to their Republican counterparts on the Committee’s majority requesting a hearing on lapses in cybersecurity in the Trump White House. “Just months ago the House Science Committee’s Republican Majority seemed to believe that cybersecurity for the President’s team was a national emergency,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Security of emails and servers was a primary concern, requiring multiple investigatory hearings and numerous subpoenas. But this interest seems to have subsided the instant a Republican entered the White House. Cyber threats will not respect partisan ideology, and this committee should exercise its oversight role. ” Media reports have suggested possible vulnerabilities for both phones and email accounts among President Trump and his senior staff, but while the Science Committee aggressively investigated such reports during the previous administration, its interest in the topic has waned under the new administration. Numerous, recent press releases expressing concerns about the previous administration’s cybersecurity are still displayed on the Committee’s website. Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Eddie Bernie Johnson (D-TX), and Dan Lipinski (D-IL) sent the letter requesting hearings to Reps. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Darin LaHood (R-IL), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA), who lead the relevant committees and subcommittees with jurisdiction over cybersecurity. The full letter can be read here.
02.02.2017	In response to President Trump’s unlawful, immoral Executive Order banning all refugees as well as individuals and families from certain Muslim-majority countries in the Middle East from entering the United States, House Members, including Reps. Don Beyer (VA), Chair of the Democratic Caucus Joe Crowley (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Andre Carson (D-IN), and Pramila Jayapal (D-WA) introduced the Freedom of Religion Act today to prohibit barring immigrants, refugees, and international visitors from entry on the basis of religion. They were joined by Gold Star Father Khizr Khan and supporting religious and civil liberties organizations. “I spent hours at Dulles Airport helping grieving families reconnect with their loved ones detained or deported by President Trump’s Muslim ban,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Religious freedom is a defining value of the United States, guaranteed by the Founding Fathers in the First Amendment to the Constitution. Today’s legislation won’t erase the pain from President Trump’s ban, but it will ensure that this sort of immoral action never happens again and show the world that America still honors its founding principles.” “Protecting religious freedom is the very foundation of what our nation was built on,” said House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley. “I strongly believe we have a responsibility, now more than ever, to stand up for individuals of all religions against hatred and bigotry. America need to be a welcoming, safe haven for all and I'm proud to be a co-sponsor of legislation that keeps true to our values." “Freedom of religion is at the core of American’s founding—the first colonists came here to flee persecution and practice their religious beliefs in peace, and many of today’s refugees come for the same reason,” Congresswoman Norton said. “America’s example as a beacon of light for the rest of the world is quickly fading due to the Muslim ban in the President’s recent executive order. At a time when we need strong partnerships with our Muslim allies abroad, this executive order undermines American security and sends a chilling signal to Muslim American citizens here at home.” “As a proud Jew and the daughter of immigrants, I will never forget where my family came from or the horrors that members of my community have experienced,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. “That is why President Trump’s appalling Muslim ban is so personal to me. His unconstitutional Order ignores these warnings from history, and undermines our values as a nation. Bigotry does not make America great; it undermines our strength as a country by giving in to fearmongering, hate, and division. Welcoming people of all faiths is the best way to counter hatred and extremism. Our diversity makes us strong, and our diversity makes us safe. I am very proud to join Rep. Beyer in reintroducing this legislation.” “The Freedom of Religion Act reaffirms our country's fundamental tenets: our Constitutional guarantee of religious freedom and our values of tolerance and pluralism. Discriminating based on religion, as President Donald Trump's executive order has done, divides our communities and makes our country more isolated in the world,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “The Freedom of Religion Act would end the shameful abuses of President Trump's executive order and make it unequivocally clear that the United States will never stand for religious discrimination.” “Our country is built on religious tolerance and the freedom to worship,” said Rep. Keith Ellison. “When President Trump blocks Muslim immigration, he’s not just being prejudiced – he’s being un-American. This bill will uphold our core values by guaranteeing that religion isn’t used to decide who can enter the country. The inscription on the Statue of Liberty reads: ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” It doesn’t say anything about a person’s faith.” “To turn our back on immigrants betrays our nation's core values,” said Rep. André Carson. “President Trump’s recent Executive Order sends a demoralizing and dangerous message to the world that the United States is no longer a beacon of freedom. This critical legislation ensures that the United States will always be a country that welcomes people of all races, ethnicities, and religions.” “President Trump’s barbaric executive order banning immigrants from certain Muslim majority countries is un-American, and unconstitutional,” said Rep. Pramila Jayapal. “We can’t let this President force his authoritarian agenda on us. I’m proud to co-introduce Freedom of Religion Act. This is not just an act of resistance against xenophobic policies, but a clear signal to President Trump that we will not let him destroy our constitution and our American values.” Additionally, 55 more House Members support the Freedom of Religion Act as original co-sponsors: Reps. John Conyers, Zoe Lofgren, Ron Kind, Jim McGovern, Gerry Connolly, Dan Kildee, Marcy Kaptur, Danny K. Davis, Katherine Clark, Nydia Velazquez, Debbie Dingell, John Lewis, Seth Moulton, Rick Larsen, Eddie Bernice Johnson, David Price, Joe Courtney, Eric Swalwell, John Yarmuth, Donald Payne Jr., Bill Keating, Louise Slaughter, Denny Heck, Peter Welch, Donald Norcross, Darren Soto, Paul Tonko, Steve Cohen, Rosa DeLauro, John Sarbanes, Kathleen Rice, Peter DeFazio, Mark Pocan, Robert Brady, Jackie Speier, Sean Patrick Maloney, Elizabeth Esty, Jim Himes, Grace Napolitano, Jose Serrano, Mike Quigley, Matt Cartwright, John Delaney, Carol Shea-Porter, Bobby Rush, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Mike Doyle, Albio Sires, G.K. Butterfield, Anna Eshoo, Bill Pascrell, Suzanne Bonamici, Jerrold Nadler, Joe Kennedy, and Elijah Cummings. Khizr Khan joined to offer his support for the Freedom of Religion Act. Khan immigrated to the United States from the United Arab Emirates with his wife Ghazala. Their son, U.S. Army Captain Humayun Khan, was killed in Iraq in 2004. Khizr Khan said, “The only way to deal with this clown show that is taking place in the White House, which violates the basic decency of America, is through challenges from Congress. The malice of Donald Trump is evident: he told Rudy Giuliani to devise an illegal, unethical, un-American scheme that will fulfill his un-American, unpatriotic campaign promise. This way of governing is alienating Muslims in the United States and around the world.” The American Civil Liberties Union was also on hand to endorse the bill. “The President's hostile views against Muslims are well documented,” said Joanne Lin, ACLU senior legislative counsel. “He has also stated a clear preference for Christian refugees over Muslim refugees. Favoring one religion over another is quintessential religious discrimination, which strikes at the heart of the first amendment establishment clause. Our constitution will not permit it. And neither will the ACLU.” Arsalan Suleman, former Acting U.S. Special Envoy to the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) at the U.S. Department of State under President Obama, said, “I have served our country as a diplomat, working to protect our national security by forging productive relationships and working to protect human rights, including religious freedom, around the globe. I know through experience that how we protect human rights and religious freedom at home determines how well we can promote them abroad, and thus how well we can protect our own security. That is why President Trump’s travel bans are so problematic. By targeting Muslims for these travel bans, President Trump has betrayed American values and has made America less safe.” “A religious test for refugees is unlawful, discriminatory and flies in the face of American values,” said Margaret Huang, Amnesty International USA’s executive director. “President Trump and his administration are writing policy based on hate and bigotry that is deliberately blind to the humanitarian crisis the world is facing. This bill is timely and necessary to ensure that those who most urgently need our help are not shut out of the U.S.” The Unitarian Universalist Association, NETWORK Advocates for Catholic Social Justice, BEND THE ARC Jewish Action, Interfaith Alliance, Just Foreign Policy, Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good, American Civil Liberties Union, Leadership Conference of Women Religious, Council on American-Islamic Relations, American Humanist Association, T'ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights, J Street, the Union of Reform Judaism, Islamic Relief USA, National Immigration Law Center, Muslim Advocates, Amnesty International USA, Lutheran Services in America, and the National Council of Jewish Women all back the measure. Text of the bill can be found here.
01.23.2017	Rep. Beyer issued the following statement today on the Trump administration’s announcement of a freeze on hiring for the federal workforce. “The Trump administration’s decision to further scapegoat the federal workforce by freezing hiring is ineffective and damaging,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Like previous actions of Congressional Republicans, complaints of ineffective government are being met with a strategy which makes government even less effective. This cycle is intentional, and state and local economies across the country will suffer for it. Weakening the ability of the federal government to carry out its crucial mission is not how you put ‘America first.’” 85% of the nation’s civil service positions are based outside of the National Capital Region. The number of federal workers is at its lowest level since the 1960s, and over 30 percent will be eligible to retire in the next year. A report by the General Accounting Office (GAO) on previous federal hiring freezes stated such freezes are not an effective strategy for shrinking the size of the workforce, and only serve to disrupt agency operations and in the long-term increase the cost of government operations.
01.13.2017	Rep. Don Beyer took to the floor of the House today to assail the irresponsible Republican proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act without any replacement. “Together we've made significant progress on our budget deficits, but blowing up Obamacare will blow up our national debt [and be] the most fiscally irresponsible act since we waged two wars without paying for them," said Rep. Don Beyer. "Repeal will cause the state of Virginia to lose up to 100,000 jobs and $50 billion in business output." Beyer voted against the budget measure, S. Con. Res. 3, which is projected to add trillions of dollars to the national debt, and which was the first step towards a GOP attempt to repeal the landmark healthcare reform which brought coverage to tens of millions of Americans. The bill passed on a party-line vote. Video of Beyer’s remarks on the House floor can be viewed here.
01.06.2017	Rep. Don Beyer pledged today to fight any Republican proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), as a new study from George Washington University’s Milken Institute School of Public Health and the Commonwealth Fund suggested that such a repeal would have dire effects on Virginia’s economy. “The Republican plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act will have disastrous consequences for Virginia,” said Rep. Beyer. “Hundreds of thousands of our neighbors will lose life-saving, affordable health coverage. The state also stands to lose as many as 100,000 jobs, $30 billion in gross state product, and $50 billion in business output. This is unacceptable and irresponsible.” The job losses predicted by the Commonwealth Fund/GW study would hit as early as 2019, while the large damage to the state economy is estimated for the first five years (2019-2023) following repeal of the law.
01.06.2017	Congressman Don Beyer today applauded the Obama Administration’s decision to deny all applications for permits to pursue petroleum exploration in the Atlantic Ocean through seismic airgun blasting. Beyer introduced bipartisan legislation in July to halt the practice along the Atlantic seaboard. “Airgun blasting threatens important species, including critically endangered North Atlantic right whales, as well as our coastal communities.” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Marine life and ocean biodiversity are vital to tourism, recreation, and many other industries which drive coastal economies. Above all, protecting these species by stopping seismic airgun blasting is a good move for the environment and I thank President Obama for taking this action.” Seismic airgun pulses are loud, repetitive, explosive sounds used to identify oil and gas reservoirs deep in the ocean floor. Sound travels more efficiently under water that these seismic blasts are known to cause hearing damage, stress, and other harm to a range of aquatic species, including the critically endangered North Atlantic right whale, of which fewer than 500 remain.
01.03.2017	Last night, House Republicans began the 115th Congress by making it harder to investigate corruption among their own. Their effort to gut the independent Office of Congressional Ethics is deeply hypocritical following a campaign in which they called the Washington region a “swamp” and their political opponents “crooked.” It speaks volumes that the first act of the incoming majority will be to make itself less accountable to the people. This provision, included as part of the GOP rules package, is a step backward and I will vote against it.
01.03.2017	Members of Congress Don Beyer, Steny Hoyer, Gerry Connolly, Eleanor Holmes Norton, and John Delaney released the following joint statement in opposition to the ‘Holman Rule’ included in the proposed Rules package: “Today, the House of Representatives will consider a rules package that aims to further undermine civil service employee protections by stripping away necessary safeguards. Reinstating the so-called “Holman Rule” would allow any Member of Congress to simply offer an amendment that could reduce the salary of any federal employee, or eliminate a federal employee’s position without hearings, testimony, or due process. Federal employees work in every congressional district to provide vital services that help keep our nation healthy, safe, and strong, but with this rule House Republicans would instead treat these civil servants like political pawns and scapegoats. We urge the GOP leadership to withdraw this harmful provision, and show support for the federal workforce.” The Holman Rule allows Congress to vote on individual federal employee’s compensation or job security, and the overall composition of the federal workforce and individual agencies, as part of an appropriations amendment.
12.20.2016	As the 114th Congress drew to a close last week, the House and Senate passed the America COMPETES reauthorization which included text from Rep. Don Beyer’s Science Prize Competitions Act. The measure encourages federal agencies to use prize competitions as incentives for innovation in scientific research. The President is expected to sign the larger bill, including Rep. Beyer’s provision, into law before the end of the year. “I’m so pleased that we ended this Congress on a bipartisan note, passing a bill which will encourage scientific research and development,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Prize competitions have a centuries-old history of motivating exploration and innovation. Some of America’s best moments, including the Space Race and Charles Lindbergh’s flight across the Atlantic, were motivated by competition. When we reach new frontiers of science and technology, all of us win. I would like to thank Senator Udall for his tremendous support and recognize his efforts to push the legislation over the finish line in the final days. ” “Successful prize competitions attract innovators and entrepreneurs who apply American ingenuity to solve problems,” said Sen. Tom Udall, sponsor of the Senate version of the bill. “Past competitions hosted in New Mexico, for instance, helped develop commercial spaceflight and improve water desalination technology. Prizes are often a cost-effective way to spur innovation, and I am proud to have worked with Congressman Beyer to see this visionary measure enacted.” Prize competitions date back centuries and have a successful track record accelerating technological development in many fields. Their goal is to incentivize problem solving and reward cash prizes for the best solution, often from new and unorthodox ideas. “Prize competitions allow federal agencies to crowdsource creative solutions and tap into both traditional and non-traditional sources of innovation,” said Chris Frangione, Vice President of Prize Development for XPRIZE. “We applaud the bipartisan, bicameral effort on the American Innovation and Competitiveness Act, and believe the bill’s updates to federal prize authority will deepen existing public-private partnerships and result in more effective public prize competitions. In particular, we commend Senator Udall, Congressman Beyer, and Congressman Johnson for their tireless leadership on federal prize policy in Congress, which will help keep our nation at the forefront of innovation and exploration for years to come.”
12.13.2016	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today on President-elect Trump’s recent nominations: “The trio of Scott Pruitt for Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Rex Tillerson for Secretary of State, and Gov. Rick Perry for Secretary of Energy confirms our worst fears about President-elect Trump's intentions on climate change and the environment. “As Oklahoma’s Attorney General, Scott Pruitt organized and led a national push to oppose the EPA. He made himself the mouthpiece for the fossil fuel industry as it fought protections of air and water quality. As a denier of climate science, he is unqualified to run the nation’s premiere agency on the environment and the fight against climate change. “At the helm of Exxon-Mobil, Rex Tillerson continued the corporation's efforts to undermine climate science as well as its unyielding insistence that fossil fuels remain the dominant, if not sole, energy source for the immediate future. Exxon-Mobil’s regard for shareholders alone, and its refusal to acknowledge that stock value could be married with a wiser and more sustainable long-term world energy portfolio caused untold harm. It is appalling that the Secretary of State who negotiated the Paris Agreement, perhaps the most ambitious step towards fighting climate change in history, could be followed by this nominee. “Rick Perry impressed almost no one during his presidential run, and his most famous statement was his call to abolish the very agency he has been tapped to lead, once he remembered that it is called the ‘Department of Energy.’ The notion that he will succeed the Obama-era Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize winner, and incumbent Ernest Moniz, an MIT nuclear physicist, is at once saddening and frightening, as was his call to close the agency tasked with developing clean energy technologies. “Climate change remains the world’s greatest threat. Delaying or reversing our efforts to fight climate change will have potentially catastrophic effects on the planet.”
12.12.2016	Congressional representatives from Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia urged Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx to support the National Park Service’s (NPS) FASTLANE grant application for $60 million to complete Arlington Memorial Bridge repairs, a project estimated to require upwards of $250 million. The letter was sent by Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, Representatives Don Beyer, Gerry Connolly, Barbara Comstock, and Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine. Earlier this year, the Department of Transportation (DOT) awarded NPS $90 million to begin necessary repairs. This grant would bring the total FASTLANE federal contribution to $150 million. The FASTLANE program requires NPS to provide 40 percent in matching funds. The lawmakers released the following joint statement today: “We encourage Secretary Foxx and the Department of Transportation to support the National Park Service’s FASTLANE application. Arlington Memorial Bridge is a critical multimodal link in the national capital region’s transportation network. This additional federal money is necessary to avoid a costly, prolonged repair project that will add to the region’s congestion problems for years. It is vital that this project is completed promptly, with federal support.” Without an additional FASTLANE grant, NPS will need to complete the project in phases stretching multiple years, raising the potential for an extended construction timeline, additional traffic delays, and increased construction costs. A multi-phased rehabilitation project also increases the likelihood of additional emergency repairs. The full text of the delegation’s letter follows, and the original copy can be viewed online here. The Honorable Anthony Foxx U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: We are pleased to provide this letter in support of the National Park Service’s (NPS) Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) grant application for the Arlington Memorial Bridge Reconstruction Project. As you know, the bridge spans the Potomac River in Washington, D.C., connecting Northern Virginia with the District of Columbia. It is not only a national memorial, but a critical multimodal link in the national capital region’s transportation network. We appreciate the U.S. Department of Transportation’s commitment to this project and previous award of a $90 million grant to enable major construction activities to begin. Unfortunately, the grant and associated matching funds will not cover the full $250 million needed for repairs. Without the remaining balance of $60 million, the construction schedule could be prolonged, raising the potential of increased travel delays and continual ad hoc repairs until the bridge would ultimately need to be completely closed by 2030, or sooner. Arlington Memorial Bridge is structurally deficient and its poor condition has already begun to significantly constrain regional movement. In May of 2015, NPS suddenly closed portions of two lanes for emergency repairs. Without a major overhaul the bridge will be closed to all vehicle traffic by 2021. The Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments projects a full bridge closure would cost the region $75.4 million per year in traffic delays alone. Traffic diversions would also put even more strain on already crowded nearby bridges. The bridge carries 68,000 vehicles per day, which is one of the highest volumes for any one bridge administered by NPS. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) engineering evaluations have demonstrated the Arlington Memorial Bridge is the worst condition of all high-volume urban federally-owned bridges in the country. Given the bridge’s state of disrepair, historical significance, traffic volume, and overall size, it is the estimated that it is the most costly identified federally-owned bridge rehabilitation project across the country. Arlington Memorial Bridge is also entirely owned by the federal government, under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service. State governments have no legal obligation to provide financial support for maintenance of the bridge. Therefore, without significant federal investment, a project of this magnitude poses a nearly impossible challenge to NPS’s transportation budget. A weight limit, which disrupts freight flows in the region, has already been instituted for Arlington Memorial Bridge. Closing the bridge entirely would have a cascading effect on all modes of transportation within the region. Finally, it is important to note that the bridge serves as a designated emergency route which would support the evacuation of over one million people in the event of a threat to the seat of government. The Arlington Memorial Bridge Reconstruction Project would completely rehabilitate Arlington Memorial Bridge, protecting its memorial character while improving safety and preventing disruption to freight flows on other Potomac River crossings. The project supports the Department of Transportation’s emphasis on economic growth; transportation safety; and federal, state and local partnerships; and is an outstanding example of regional cooperation. It also reflects the calls for addressing infrastructure bottlenecks and improving safety in your department’s National Freight Strategic Plan. For these reasons, we enthusiastically support the NPS’s FASTLANE grant application for the remaining funding required to repair and preserve Arlington Memorial Bridge. If you have any questions please feel free to contact our offices. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Eleanor Holmes Norton 8th District, Virginia At-large, District of Columbia Senator Mark Warner Senator Tim Kaine Virginia Virginia Barbara Comstock Gerald E. Connolly 10th District, Virginia 11th District, Virginia John K. Delaney 6th District, Maryland
12.08.2016	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) issued the following statement today on his vote against final passage of the continuing resolution (CR): I voted today against the continuing resolution (CR), which would fund the U.S. government for four months. Although there are components of the CR that I support, such as funding for Flint, Michigan’s water crisis, the CR also all-too-conveniently sets the stage for a more conservative and destructive long-term funding vehicle come April. Today’s effort was a legislative maneuver designed to limit bipartisan cooperation and enact destructive Republican principles through the budget process. It was months ago that Congress began the appropriations process to adequately fund government operations, with key investments in infrastructure, technology, research and development, the middle class, and the armed services. Yet here we are, more than two months into the fiscal year, with a harmful continuing resolution with historically low non-defense discretionary spending that forces federal agencies to meet budget shortfalls by slashing programs that help those most in need. This is not regular order despite six years of promises and single party control, and I am disappointed but not surprised that a full-year funding bill continues to elude this chamber. This bill ignores the budget agreement made last winter, breaks parity between defense and non-defense discretionary programs that many Americans rely on, and fails to appropriately address the needs of our government. The bill also grants a waiver to a recently retired general to become Secretary of Defense, a waiver only extended once in history. Such a move involves questioning of one of our most important foundational doctrines --civilian control of the military -- and deserves full debate by both chambers of Congress. Attaching this waiver to a funding bill through a midnight maneuver is an attempt to sneak that waiver past the American people without any discussion, which is not a precedent we can accept, especially given the controversy surrounding the President-elect’s other Cabinet nominees. I take funding the government and keeping the many federal employees I represent at work extremely seriously, but this bill is not one which I could have voted for in good conscience. I opposed the continuing resolution. It is my hope that Senate will reject the CR so that we can get to work on a bipartisan full year funding bill instead of rushing out the door for our holiday vacations with many priorities unaddressed.
12.07.2016	This week, Representative Don Beyer introduced the Wildlife Corridors Conservation Act of 2016 to begin reversing the tide of habitat loss and fragmentation for U.S. fish, wildlife, and plant species. Wildlife corridors are stretches of habitat that allow species to move from one area of habitat to another for such purposes as accessing resources, establishing new territories, shifting ranges, promoting gene flow, and adapting to the impacts of a changing climate. Corridors have been successfully implemented around the world and throughout the U.S., yet current law provides limited requirements for land and water managers to address species’ connectivity needs. “With roughly one in five animal and plant species in the U.S. at risk of extinction due to habitat loss and fragmentation, one of the simplest yet most effective things we can do is to provide them ample opportunity to move across lands and waters,” said Rep. Beyer. The Wildlife Corridors Conservation Act establishes a National Wildlife Corridors System to ensure that species are able to move between habitats less encumbered by obstacles. The bill directs key Federal land and water management agencies to work with each other, as well as with States, tribes, local governments, and private landowners, to develop and manage national wildlife corridors in accordance with existing laws and the habitat connectivity needs of native species. Paired with a new public-facing geographic information system (GIS) database of corridors and modest additional funding to the key agencies, the National Wildlife Corridors System promises the framework to strengthen fish, wildlife, and plant species populations, while at the same time improving recreational opportunities and roadway safety for people. The bill enjoys broad support from the scientific community and more than 60 conservation organizations, including the National Wildlife Federation. "The Wildlife Corridors Conservation Act would provide the most important step of any single piece of legislation at the present time in enlarging the nations protected areas and thereby saving large swaths of America’s wildlife and other fauna and flora, especially in this critical time of climate change and shifting locations of the original environments in which a large part of biodiversity has existed,” renowned biologist E.O. Wilson said of the bill. "Habitat loss and fragmentation are the biggest drivers of species declines," said Susan Holmes, Policy Director for the Wildlands Network. "We thank Congressman Beyer for introducing this important legislation to better connect wildlife, from the bald eagle to the Florida panther, with important habitat." “Corridors increase wildlife movement between habitat areas by approximately 50 percent compared to areas not connected by corridors. By creating a system of national wildlife corridors, this bill will help protect and restore America’s wildlife,” said Leda Huta, Executive Director of the Endangered Species Coalition. “Defenders of Wildlife appreciates Representative Beyer’s leadership in protecting America’s wildlife and their habitats through this strategic and collaborative approach to conservation planning,” said Mark Salvo, Vice President of Landscape Conservation at Defenders of Wildlife. “Connecting our public wildlands and waters is key to the survival of a diverse array of treasured species, from the grizzly, to the elk, to the monarch butterfly. The Wildlife Corridors Conservation Act is an investment in our natural heritage and the type of proactive wildlife stewardship that transcends political affiliation, speaking to the heart of our American values.” Text of the bill can be read here. The Wildlands Network has also created a fact sheet for the Wildlife Corridors Conservation Act, as well as facts sheets for potential impacts of the bill on specific species, including the grizzly bear, the monarch butterfly, the Florida panther, and the pronghorn.
12.01.2016	Congressman Beyer demanded answers at a House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing on the rapidly rising rates for policy holders of the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program (FLTCIP). He expressed the anguish of constituents who contacted him about their premium increases, some of which went up by as much as 126 percent, in an exchange with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). “The sudden FLTCIP rate increases shocked and upset many of my constituents,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Unfortunately many of their questions remain unanswered. We need to continue to push OPM to fully explain why so little information was communicated to policy-holders sooner, especially when OPM knew years in advance that premium increases would be expected. We need tangible adjustments to ensure the long-term affordability and sustainability of this program.” Rep. Beyer does not sit on the Oversight Committee, but asked to take part in the hearing because of its significance to his constituents. Fellow Virginia Representative Gerry Connolly, who sits on the Oversight Committee, initially requested the hearing. Beyer added, “Congress held a hearing in 2009 and nothing improved. Insurers again issued a contract with even worse price shock to beneficiaries. The conversation cannot end with this hearing.” Northern Virginia is home to the largest concentration of federal employees in the nation, many of whom purchase through FLTCIP. Video of Rep. Beyer’s exchanges at the hearing can be viewed here.
11.30.2016	November 30, 2016 (Washington, DC) – Rep. Don Beyer yesterday presented U.S. Park Police Officer Carl Hiott the Congressional Badge of Bravery, an award recognizing law enforcement officers for exceptional acts of bravery in the face of great personal risk. Officer Hiott, who lives in Alexandria, was part of a team which saved the lives of workers at the Washington Navy Yard in 2013, during the shooting there which claimed the lives of twelve people. “Officer Hiott did a tremendous service to his community and his country, and I’m thrilled to be able to recognize him for his courageous actions during the Washington Navy Yard shooting,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “He put his life at risk to protect others, and undoubtedly saved lives that day. His service represents the finest example of law enforcement, and I am so proud to present him with the Congressional Badge of Bravery.” The presentation was made at a ceremony in Rep. Beyer’s Washington office, and attendees included Interior Secretary Sally Jewel, Jonathan Jarvis, Director of the National Park Service, and Robert Maclean, Chief of U.S. Park Police. The Law Enforcement Congressional Badge of Bravery is presented to individuals who sustain injury or put their lives at risk to perform “an act characterized as bravery by the agency head who makes the nomination that placed the individual at risk of serious physical injury or death.” “On September 16, 2013, a lone gunman entered the headquarters of the Naval Sea Systems Command at the Washington Navy Yard in Washington, DC, and began killing people. The suspect entered the building with a disassembled shotgun, assembled the shotgun in a fourth-floor bathroom, and then proceeded to make his way through the building shooting civilians and staff. At one point, he shot a security officer and took his pistol. Following 911 calls, multiple agencies, including the United States Park Police and the District’s Metropolitan Police Department (MPD), began arriving and searching the building for the active shooter. United States Park Police Offers Carl Hiott and Andrew Wong and Metropolitan Police Officer Dorian DeSantis were among the initial responders. The officers arrived separately and were directed by an MPD official to move into the building with other officers arriving from multiple agencies. The officers were given a general description of the suspect and advised that the suspect was possibly located on the third floor Officers Hiott and Wong, initially operating within two separate entry teams, moved into the building and began the process of clearing office spaces and escorting civilians out of the building. Both officers’ teams moved to the third floor, where they encountered additional civilians. While the other officers escorted civilians out of the area, Officer Hiott, Officer Wong, and Metropolitan Police Officer Dorian DeSantis teamed up and continued the search. As Officers DeSantis, Hiott, and Wong were clearing the third floor, they entered an open office space. Officer Wong remained at the entrance of this office space to provide cover, while Officers DeSantis and Hiott began clearing individual cubicles. As Officer De Santis moved into the opening of the last cubicle; Officer Hiott, who was providing cover, observed movement within a cubicle. He then observed muzzle flashes and heard gunshots come from within the cubicle. Officer Hiott, using his patrol rifle, returned fire at the suspect. Officer DeSantis also returned fire. They then entered the cubicle, while Officer Wong moved up to the entrance of the cubicle and covered areas that had not been cleared. Fortunately, the officers were not injured. Within the cubicle, they located a suspect who fit the description of the active shooter. He was found to be incapacitated with a handgun laying at his feet. The suspect ultimately killed 12 people and injured others, including two MPD officers. Officers Hiott, DeSantis, and Wong then cleared the remaining offices and found several more civilians, who were then escorted out of the area by Officer Wong. The action of these officers in direct response to the active shooter threat demonstrated the highest levels of professionalism and courage in the face of imminent danger.”
11.21.2016	Following a sharp rise in hate crimes across the country, Representative Don Beyer introduced the National Observations of Hate, Assaults, and Threats to Equality (NO HATE) Act to improve federal data on hate crimes. “In the current climate, reducing hate crimes must be an imperative for every police department in the United States,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Only by accurately tracking hate crimes can we know whether we are making progress towards their prevention.” Hate crime reporting is deeply flawed due to underreporting or complete lack of reporting by local law enforcement. Rep. Beyer’s bill would aim to fill those gaps by requiring the Justice Department to ensure localities receiving federal funding are credibly reporting hate crimes. The bill is supported by the Anti-Defamation League, Human Rights Campaign, Southern Poverty Law Center, and other civil liberties organizations. “We support Rep. Beyer’s legislative initiative to connect federal funding to credible participation in the HCSA program,” said Jonathan A. Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League. “Data drives policy. Communities cannot know the nature and magnitude of the threat hate violence poses unless their police department is actively tracking them, training their officers to identify them, and reporting to the FBI and state officials on these specially-impactful criminal acts.” “With the spike in bias-motivated violence and harassment across the country, the need to address the crisis of anti-LGBTQ hate is more urgent than ever,” said David Stacy, HRC’s Government Affairs Director. “Without a clearer picture of the full scope of this problem, our policymakers, elected officials, and law enforcement are deprived of the necessary tools to fully combat this epidemic. The No Hate Act is a necessary fix to our data-reporting requirements and we applaud Rep. Beyer for working to fill this significant hole in our nation’s ability to address this often deadly violence.” Over 3,000 law enforcement agencies do not report hate crimes to the FBI, creating gaps in data on hate crimes which include major metropolitan areas such as Miami, Portland, or Orlando as well as the majority of the localities in the states of Mississippi and Louisiana. "Hate crimes are woefully underreported nationwide and have been for decades,” said Heidi Beirich, Director of Southern Poverty Law Center’s Intelligence Project. “Without accurate statistics, we can’t even understand the full scope of the problem we face in terms of hate violence. This is particularly important now as the Southern Poverty Law Center continues to see a rise in reported hate incidents after the election, especially those targeting immigrants, the LGBT community, Muslims and Jewish and black community members alike. This important legislation brings critical attention to the need for all states and local officials to accurately report hate crimes." FBI Director James Comey previously said that “we need to do a better job of tracking and reporting hate crimes to fully understand what is happening in our communities and how to stop it.” The full text of the NO HATE Act can be read here. ###
11.18.2016	“I do not expect to agree with President-elect Trump on most issues, but I do expect him to lead responsibly. By appointing Senator Sessions and Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn to key positions on his administration’s national security team, he has abdicated that duty. His chosen advisors have expressed views attacking women, African Americans, Jews, Muslims, Hispanics and Latinos, immigrants and new Americans, and numerous other groups. I urge him to reconsider this divisive course and withdraw these appointments.” Lt. General Michael Flynn, Trump’s choice for National Security Advisor, publicly stated that “fear of Muslims is rational.” Flynn’s financial ties to Russia and Turkey represent a significant potential conflict of interest as he leads the National Security Council. He also said just a month ago that “the Muslim faith itself” is a “political ideology, not a religion,” which is the source of an “existential threat on a global scale.” Senator Jeff Sessions, nominated to be Attorney General, defended Trump’s proposed ban on Muslims entering the United States in an interview during which he also defended Trump’s attacks on the Gold Star family of Captain Humayun Khan. Sessions once referred to an African American attorney as “boy,” and said that civil rights groups like the ACLU, the NAACP, and Martin Luther King Jr.’s Southern Christian Leadership Conference were “un-American” and were attempting to “force civil rights down the throats of people.” As Attorney General, Sessions – who has criticized the Voting Rights Act – would be in charge of enforcing civil rights laws and investigating police departments for incidents of racial profiling and race-based-violence. Sessions’ has also made his stance on immigration – which borders on nativism – the focus of many public statements. Representative Beyer previously signed the letter led by Rep. David Cicilline urging President-elect Trump to reconsider his appointment of white nationalist Steve Bannon to the position of Chief White House Strategist. He is the sponsor of a House resolution, H. Res. 569, “Condemning violence, bigotry, and hateful rhetoric towards Muslims in the United States.” He also proposed the Freedom of Religion Act, a bill which would bar the President from using religious beliefs to prevent travelers, refugees, or immigrants from entering the United States. The bill enjoys bipartisan support in the House as well as the backing of a coalition of civil liberties organizations and groups representing a broad spectrum of religious faiths.
11.15.2016	Rep. Don Beyer’s (D-VA) Outdoor Recreation’s Economic Contributions (REC) Act passed the House of Representatives last night. The REC Act would direct the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) to assess the outdoor industry’s contribution to job creation and consumer spending. “With this vote, we can finally recognize the outdoor recreation industry’s enormous contribution to the U.S. economy,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “This data is critical to crafting sound environmental and recreational policies that support the $646 billion outdoor economy.” Rep. Beyer introduced the bipartisan Outdoor REC Act with Dave Reichert (R-WA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) this spring. “With countless hiking and biking trails, rivers, lakes, and parks, Washington State is home to some of the country’s most active outdoorsmen and women,” said Rep. Dave Reichert. “But spending time outside is more than a recreational activity in my home state – the outdoors industry is a staple of our economy. I am proud today my colleagues in the House joined me in recognizing the important role the outdoor recreation industry plays in contributing to job creation and the overall health of our economy.” “Outdoor recreation activities improve our health and happiness as well as the bottom line of communities and states,” Rep. Peter Welch said. “Having reliable data that quantifies these benefits is essential so we can better support this vital sector of our economy.” “In Eastern Washington, we refer to our home as, ‘Near Nature, Near Perfect.’ Our public lands offer Washingtonians the opportunity to enjoy the great outdoors, including the Colville and Umatilla National Forests,” said Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “This legislation provides clarity to the American people about the economic impact our outdoor industries provide to the American economy. ” Once the companion legislation introduced by Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Cory Gardner (R-CO) passes the Senate, as is expected, the legislation will move to the President’s desk to be signed into law. "The Outdoor Industry Association (OIA) and the thousands of manufacturers, retailers and service providers in the outdoor recreation industry, know about the hundreds of millions of dollars our industry contributes to the U.S. economy and the millions of jobs our businesses support," said OIA Executive Director Amy Roberts. "The passage of Recreation’s Economic Contributions (REC) Act shows that members of the House understand that as well. We are grateful for the leadership of Congressman Beyer, Congressman Reichert, Congressman Welch, and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and join them in celebrating today's vote. This is a big step forward in making sure that the federal government quantifies the economic importance of our industry and uses that data to inform the decisions that affect our businesses and the 142 million Americans who recreate outside each year.
10.05.2016	Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), and Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), led 92 House Democrats today urging President Obama to veto any Republican attempts to strip Endangered Species Act (ESA) protections from any authorizing or spending bills. share: f t Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), and Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), led 92 House Democrats today urging President Obama to veto any Republican attempts to strip Endangered Species Act (ESA) protections from any authorizing or spending bills. “The ESA is a critical tool to protect animals and land the American people care for deeply,” said Rep. Beyer. “Provisions that would remove protections for gray wolves, grizzly bears, or federally protected lands in Alaska, to name a few, advance an anti-wildlife, anti-climate agenda that has no place in Congress’s efforts to keep the government running.” “The Endangered Species Act protects some of our most iconic lands and wildlife, and we shouldn’t be trying to gut it through unrelated bills to fund the government. We should be working together to improve conservation in this country, not rolling back the clock,” said Rep. Dingell. “Bills to fund the government and protect our country have nothing to do with Republicans’ anti-environment, anti-wildlife ideology, and they should drop the act without further delay. No one is impressed by these tactics, and thanks to the good sense of the American people they’re destined to fail,” said Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva. The letter’s authors wrote: We are writing today to convey our concern over the many damaging anti-wildlife provisions included in the House and Senate FY 2017 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies appropriations bills, the House-passed energy package, and the FY 2017 House National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). If enacted, these provisions would undermine the Endangered Species Act (ESA), upend management of our national wildlife refuges and other federally protected lands, and harm individual species at risk of extinction. We urge you to maintain steadfast opposition to all of these provisions and reject any legislation that includes them. See the full text of the letter below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing today to convey our concern over the many damaging anti-wildlife provisions included in the House and Senate FY 2017 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies appropriations bills, the House-passed energy package, and the FY 2017 House National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). If enacted, these provisions would undermine the Endangered Species Act (ESA), upend management of our national wildlife refuges and other federally protected lands, and harm individual species at risk of extinction. We urge you to maintain steadfast opposition to all of these provisions and reject any legislation that includes them. We appreciate the strong Statement of Administration Policy (SAP) issued July 11, 2016, opposing sections of the House Interior appropriations bill (H.R. 5538) that would “undermine the ESA and limit the ability of the Fish and Wildlife Service [FWS] to properly protect important species and habitats based on the best available science, including the greater sage grouse, lesser prairie chicken, delta smelt, and certain gray wolf populations,” as well as sections that would “undercut the ESA, preempt California water law, [and] fail to address critical elements of California's complex water challenges . . . .” Since issuance of the SAP, though, some members of the House majority have significantly escalated their assault on the ESA and other wildlife protections. Policy riders added on the House floor include language detrimental to the survival and recovery of gray wolves across the entire continental United States, Mexican gray wolves in the Southwest, the Preble’s meadow jumping mouse, and the New Mexico meadow jumping mouse. Further, language was also added that would threaten the survival of any ESA-listed species when FWS fails to meet its obligation under the ESA to review listed species’ status every five years; would limit court access for citizens who seek to enforce the ESA and other bedrock environmental laws; and would block Department of Interior policies designed to conserve wolves, grizzly bears, and other native carnivores on federally protected lands in Alaska. Some of these same provisions are also included in the Senate Interior appropriations bill, S. 3068. In addition to the numerous appropriations riders in FY 2017 appropriations bills, we are concerned by anti-wildlife provisions included in the House-passed energy package. Among the most harmful of these provisions are efforts to: strip existing ESA protections for certain gray wolf populations; gut efforts to combat wildlife trafficking and protect African elephants by restricting the sale of ivory; block Department of Interior efforts to conserve native carnivores on federally protected lands in Alaska; and override vital ESA protections for salmon and other native fish in California. We have further concerns that, for the second year running, the NDAA has become a vehicle for meritless attacks on America’s most imperiled wildlife. The House NDAA bill (H.R. 4909) would block cooperative efforts to conserve the greater sage-grouse, despite the Department of Defense asserting that these efforts will not “affect military training, operations, or readiness to any significant degree.” This provision would tip the scales heavily in favor of development throughout the sage-grouse’s 11-state range at the expense of the bird and the sagebrush ecosystem that it and scores of other wildlife species depend upon for survival. Additional House NDAA provisions seek to block new protections for the lesser prairie-chicken and remove existing protections for the American burying beetle – species whose habitat has hardly any overlap with military lands. We appreciate your consideration, and we urge you to ensure that all of these attacks on the ESA and wildlife are removed from any legislation you sign into law. We owe it to all Americans present and future to protect our natural heritage and leave behind a legacy of sound environmental stewardship. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. MEMBER OF CONGRESS Debbie Dingell MEMBER OF CONGRESS Raúl Grijalva MEMBER OF CONGRESS ###
09.21.2016	Congressman Don Beyer today led 54 members of the House of Representatives in urging U.S. Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewel and the Obama Administration to advocate restoring all African elephants to Appendix I status under the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), banning the international ivory trade. “The simple truth is that a lawful international market for elephant ivory ultimately encourages widespread poaching and illegal trade. History has shown CITES Appendix I listing of all African elephants to be a particularly effective means of protecting these incredible animals whose numbers have been declining dramatically in recent years,” said Rep. Beyer. The countries of Botswana, Namibia, South Africa, and Zimbabwe downgraded elephant protections to Appendix II in the 1990s, paving the way for the creation of limited legal ivory markets into which contraband ivory from illegal poaching continues to flow. "The voting member nations of CITES have the chance to take concrete action that would help stop the wholesale slaughter of some of the most magnificent and complex animals on earth," stated Cathy Liss, president of the Animal Welfare Institute. "We urge Secretary Jewell and Director Ashe, as head of the U.S. delegation, to heed the call from these Members of Congress and ensure that our government does not stand idly by while the carnage that fuels the global ivory trade continues." The letter’s authors wrote: “The need for consistency in interpretation and application of CITES, the enormous practical value of listing all elephants under Appendix I, and the experiences and appeals of the large majority of elephant range states make it abundantly clear that strong and vocal support for an Appendix I listing is the best course of action if the United States is to remain a leader in conservation and in the global fight to combat the poaching crisis that continues to fuel widespread devastation and drive elephants towards extinction.” See the full letter below: September 20, 2016 The Honorable Sally Jewell Secretary of the Interior Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Secretary Jewell: Elephants across most of their African habitat countries have endured severe poaching in recent years, with losses totaling more than 30,000 fatalities per year, for several years on end. Certain decisions made by the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), the UN-administered endangered species treaty, are unfortunately responsible for a large share of the current crisis. Although African elephants were classified under Appendix I in 1989―with strong U.S. support―CITES subsequently down-listed the elephants of Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe, in addition to authorizing “one-off experimental” sales totaling about 150 tons of ivory. These actions provided a rejuvenated market into which enormous volumes of contraband ivory is being laundered. The United States has recently made important policy advances to protect elephant populations and combat the devastating effects of widespread poaching: a near complete prohibition of domestic ivory markets, the destruction of ivory stockpiles, and the creation of a Presidential Task Force on Combating Wildlife Trafficking―all of which have been warmly welcomed by many Members of Congress as well as by the conservation community. Yet despite these crucial efforts, the United States runs the risk of equivocating on the most important initiative of all: the restoration of all African elephants to CITES Appendix I, a classification which prohibits commercial trade globally. CITES will be meeting again for its triennial session from September 24 to October 5, 2016 in South Africa. Twenty-nine countries of the African Elephant Coalition, including many of America’s allies, are sponsoring and encouraging a proposal that would restore all African elephants to CITES Appendix I. These countries, which represent the vast majority of African elephant range states, have suffered intense poaching in recent years and are appealing for support in their efforts to suppress the criminal exploitation of their elephants. The United States has been unfortunately silent on the Appendix I issue and, to date, has not announced its position. There is serious apprehension in the conservation community that the United States may oppose restoring all elephants to CITES Appendix I. The recently released census data from 18 African countries―with a mere 352,271 savanna elephants surveyed―reveal a catastrophic decline and provide further evidence for the need to take immediate action. It is critically important for the United States to announce its support for the CITES Appendix I listing of all African elephants, and to give that support substance by presenting interventions and casting votes at the CITES upcoming meeting. The reasons for this include: 1. The only time in recent history when elephants enjoyed relative peace from poaching pressure were the years 1990–1997, when all populations were on CITES Appendix I, and there was no question that any commercial trade in ivory was illegal. These years represent the “gold standard” for elephants, and provide clear evidence that the Appendix I listing works better than any other mechanism. 2. The United States played a leading role in achieving the 1989 Appendix I listing, but any uncertainty or wavering with respect to the present Administration’s CITES policy will surely be noticed by ivory trade interests and potentially interpreted as a signal that the U.S. may support legalized ivory trade in the near future. 3. The present “split-listing” of elephant populations is inconsistent with the text of CITES that was ratified by the United States government. That text defines “species” as “any species, subspecies, or geographically separate population thereof” (Article I (a)). The elephants of Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe are not a separate species. Nor are they a separate subspecies. Nor are they a “geographically separate population.” Rather, these elephants freely migrate across international borders and interbreed with other elephants outside of the identified countries. They are not “geographically separate” and consequently they should not be subject to a separate listing within the treaty. 4. Twenty-nine countries seek American support for the Appendix I listing. These include most of the elephant range states. For most, the ramifications of this proposal extend far beyond the saving these animals. Important cornerstones of national economies, especially the ability to generate foreign revenue, are tied to this issue. Ivory trafficking is persistently linked to crime and violence―smuggling, fraud, conspiracy, corruption, money laundering, intimidation, and homicide. U.S. government agencies have repeatedly established the connection between the ivory trade and violent militias and terrorist groups around the world. The need for consistency in interpretation and application of CITES, the enormous practical value of listing all elephants under Appendix I, and the experiences and appeals of the large majority of elephant range states make it abundantly clear that strong and vocal support for an Appendix I listing is the best course of action if the United States is to remain a leader in conservation and in the global fight to combat the poaching crisis that continues to fuel widespread devastation and drive elephants towards extinction. Thank you for considering our request. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Gerald E. Connolly Vern Buchanan Michael M. Honda Earl Blumenauer Raúl M. Grijalva Paul D. Tonko Stephen F. Lynch Jerry McNerney Adam Smith James R. Langevin Tony Cárdenas Alan Grayson Julia Brownley John Garamendi Alan Lowenthal Dina Titus Peter A. DeFazio Mike Quigley Sam Farr William R. Keating Steve Cohen Zoe Lofgren Donna F. Edwards Chris Van Hollen Michael E. Capuano Keith Ellison John A. Yarmuth Elijah E. Cummings Jerrold Nadler David N. Cicilline Theodore E. Deutch John Conyers, Jr. Eliot L. Engel Adam B. Schiff Nydia M. Velázquez Eleanor Holmes Norton Gregory W. Meeks Frank Pallone, Jr. Nita M. Lowey Suzan K. DelBene Anna G. Eshoo Wm. Lacy Clay Brendan F. Boyle Carolyn B. Maloney Jared Polis Steve Israel Betty McCollum James P. McGovern Mark Pocan Patrick E. Murphy Mark Takano Susan A. Davis
09.15.2016	U.S. Representative Don Beyer today met with the family of his constituent Aya Hijazi, who has been imprisoned without trial in Egypt for over two years. Beyer was joined in his office by Hijazi’s brother Basel, and sister Alaa, as well as counsel from RFK Human Rights. They discussed the conditions of Hijazi’s confinement, the lack of evidence presented by Egyptian authorities to support their charges, the breakdown in due process which has resulted in seven trial postponements, and the broader crackdown on non-governmental organizations (NGOs), journalists, academics, artists, and human rights organizations in Egyptian civil society. “Aya Hijazi has been illegally detained in pre-trial detention on dubious charges for over two years. The Egyptian government should immediately release her and I urge the U.S. government to do everything in its power to secure her release” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Aya’s continued detention violates legal standards set by the United Nations, the African Union, and Egypt’s own laws. Despite the extraordinary length of this pre-trial detention, the Egyptian government still cannot present any evidence against her. Aya should be free.” "Aya is a humanitarian, not a criminal. Instead of being free to serve those who are less fortunate, she has been forced to serve time behind bars," said Hijazi’s family in a joint statement. "Our demand is simple: bring her home to us. Free Aya now." Following their meeting, they were joined by Northern Virginia U.S. Representative Gerry Connolly and Hijazi’s close friend Chelsea Cowan at the U.S. Capitol for a press conference to discuss the case with reporters. "The Egyptian government has engaged in a well-documented campaign to suppress NGOs and human rights organizations by leveling false criminal charges against their employees,” said Rep. Gerry Connolly. “Aya Hijazi, an American working in Egypt, has been swept up by this campaign and her continued detention is unacceptable. I am glad to join Rep. Beyer and Aya's family to advocate for her release, and, once again, press the Egyptian government to observe human rights standards and uphold the rule of law." Aya Hijazi (also spelled “Hegazy” in some press stories) is a dual citizen of the United States and Egypt. She grew up in Falls Church, Virginia and earned a B.A. in Conflict Analysis and Resolution from George Mason University in 2009. Aya attended law school in Cairo, where she met her husband, Mohammed Hassanein. The couple used money saved for their wedding to found an NGO called the Belady (“Our Country”) Foundation, devoted to development and humanitarian causes. "The arbitrary arrest and ongoing illegal detention of Aya Hijazi are clear and egregious violations of her human rights," said Wade McMullen, Managing Attorney at Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights. "There is no justification in law or in fact to continue holding her behind bars." After an initiative to care for displaced children (colloquially known as “street children”), Hijazi, Hassanein, and five associates were arrested and placed in detention by the Egyptian government. The arrests took place amid a backdrop of a widespread crackdown on NGO’s, journalists, academics, artists, and human rights organizations. “Egypt is an important security partner, as well as one of our largest aid recipients” added Beyer. “This partnership is deeply undermined by the detention of American citizens on dubious charges, without evidence and with an apparent political motivation. Enough is enough. It’s time to free Aya.” Rep. Beyer has been involved in Hijazi’s case, raising the matter several times with Secretary Kerry and the State Department, and encouraging fellow Members of Congress to call for improvement in Egypt’s record on human rights and due process.
09.14.2016	At today’s Science, Space, and Technology Committee hearing, Congressman Don Beyer questioned expert legal witnesses on the Science Committee’s limited subpoena power, in response to Chairman Lamar Smith’s overzealous harassment of state attorneys general (AGs) and environmental non-profit organizations. “The House Science Committee’s record of promoting sound science and finding bipartisan solutions has been tarnished thanks to Chairman Smith’s actions,” said Rep. Beyer. “This Committee has no business harassing state attorneys general from investigating credible claims that ExxonMobil hid evidence from its shareholders related to the potential risks posed by climate change.” Rep. Beyer highlighted a recent interview of House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) by CNN’s Wolf Blitzer. Video of that exchange can be viewed here. In discussing the possible pay-to-play scandal involving Florida AG Pam Bondi and Donald Trump, Chairman Chaffetz said, “I don’t see the federal jurisdiction in this case. It does look to me to be a state issue. It’s regarding an attorney general in Florida. I just don’t see the federal jurisdiction.” The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has the “broadest” oversight jurisdiction of House Committees, able to investigate government-wide, according to Prof. Charles Tiefer, former Acting General Counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives. Asked to comment on how Science Committee investigative jurisdiction could somehow exceed Oversight and Government Reform jurisdiction, Prof. Tiefer stated simply, “If they don’t have it, you don’t have it.”
09.08.2016	The House of Representatives passed a bipartisan bill Rep. Beyer introduced with California Republican Mimi Walters to protect the rights of sexual assault survivors to their sexual assault forensic evidence collection kits, known colloquially known as rape kits, and to standardize practices in the preservation of those kits. The measure passed the Senate unanimously in May. “Sexual assault survivors deserve better than our current patchwork of often inadequate state laws and procedures detailing processes and care of a victim’s rape kit,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Virginia’s commitment to address its substantial backlog of evidence kits is impressive, but there is more we can do to guarantee that victims of such horrific trauma are provided the best possible care and legal protection.” The bill safeguards the rights of sexual assault survivors to learn the results of their rape kits in federal criminal cases and requires that they be notified when their kit is scheduled to be destroyed. It further affords the survivor the right to request preservation of their rape kit and requires that survivors be notified of the outcome of any forensic testing performed. It also requires the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services to create a joint working group to advise states of best practices on the safekeeping of sexual assault forensic evidence and treatment of survivors of sexual assault.
08.26.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement in honor of Women’s Equality Day: “We celebrate Women’s Equality Day each year on this day to commemorate the ratification of the 19th Amendment, which finally gave American women the right to vote 96 years ago. This historic milestone came after a decades-long struggle for equal access to the ballot box by the women’s suffrage movement. “Today, as we honor their struggle, let us not forget nor ignore our commitment to gender equality. The 19th Amendment, the Equal Pay Act, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, and Title IX are all critical steps on the march to progress. We must continue marching, to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, the FAMILY Act, secure paid family leave, and to end the scourge of sexual assault on our college campuses. “Let’s leave our grandchildren even more historic milestones to celebrate in another 96 years.”
08.22.2016	Congressman Don Beyer, the Ranking Member on the House Science Subcommittee for Oversight, strongly condemned the Committee’s issuance of subpoenas to private server companies related to Sec. Clinton’s email server. “This is a wasteful use of taxpayer dollars by Chairman Smith and the Science Committee Republicans for blatantly partisan purposes,” said Rep. Beyer. “The House Science Committee must focus on its role promoting science and ensuring that America is the global leader in research and development, rather than scoring cheap political points with the umpteenth investigation of this issue.” Sec. Clinton’s servers have already been thoroughly investigated by the House Benghazi Committee, which expended millions of taxpayer dollars on an inquiry which revealed no evidence of illegal activity.
08.15.2016	Congressman Don Beyer today welcomed news that the Social Security Administration (SSA) is delaying its requirement for a text authentication for customers trying to use their online Social Security accounts (my Social Security). On July 31, SSA began requiring my Social Security account holders to sign into their accounts using a one-time code sent via text message, thereby preventing SSA account holders without text-enabled cell phones from checking on their earnings and benefits online. “The Social Security Administration made the right decision today to roll back the security measures that blocked account access for many of my constituents,” said Rep. Beyer. “Protecting against cyber-intrusion must be an SSA priority, and so must customer service.” Rep. Beyer wrote Acting SSA Commissioner Colvin this month imploring the Administration to pursue other options for ensuring multifactor authentication. SSA has agreed to develop an alternative option in addition to text messaging within the next six months.
08.12.2016	Following a proposal issued by the Reagan National Community Noise Working Group, Rep. Beyer today wrote to Administrator Michael Huerta of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) supporting the group’s new recommendation for a plan to reduce aircraft noise on departures south of the airport. The proposal was drafted by the Working Group in consultation with the FAA, the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA), and the airlines. The letter also urges the FAA to “pursue holistic approaches to noise mitigation,” including lowering the decibel level standard by which the FAA determines acceptable noise pollution. Residents of communities both north and south of DCA have grown increasingly concerned about aircraft noise. “Implementing this recommendation would go a long way to reducing excessive airplane noise south of National Airport,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “The proposal was put together by a group of citizens and community leaders in consultation with major stakeholders, and I hope that FAA will act on these suggestions with all possible haste. I further urge the FAA to pursue other means at its disposal to reduce the impact of aircraft noise on the region.” The Reagan National Community Noise Working Group was formed by area citizens, elected leaders, and stakeholders in October of 2015 to respond to rising complaints about airplane noise, and to work with officials to produce solutions to create quieter skies. The full letter from Rep. Beyer to FAA Administrator Huerta can be viewed here. The text of the Working Group’s recommendation follows. Recommendation for FAA work on South Flow, as approved by the Working Group on August 11: “The Reagan National Airport Community Working Group recommends that FAA modify flight paths and make other modifications, including possible waypoint adjustments, along south flow departure routes from Reagan National Airport with the goal of maximizing the time aircraft spend flying directly over the Potomac River and minimizing the time aircraft spend flying over land in communities south of the airport, especially residential neighborhoods, as a way to mitigate the impact of aircraft noise. The Working Group will continue its dialog with the FAA, the airlines and the Airports Authority on flight paths and other pertinent operating characteristics related to aircraft noise. The Working Group further recommends relocating the turning point for aircraft heading west off the river farther south along the Potomac River to minimize flight over residential areas and at a location where aircraft have reached the highest practical altitudes, consistent with the FAA’s study of operational considerations. The Working Group further recommends that the FAA engage in outreach to communities that could be impacted by modifications in flight paths or procedures resulting from this recommendation.”
08.08.2016	The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) today released its Track Integrity Investigation on the WMATA Metrorail system. The investigation, which addresses inspections from FTA’s Spring 2016 safety blitz and mostly predates WMATA’s SafeTrack plan, found major, longstanding deficiencies in the way that WMATA conducts rail inspections and protocol used to carry out routine repairs and track work. The FTA report was accompanied by a safety directive outlining a series of twelve required corrective action steps, including updates to WMATA’s manuals and training for safety inspections and trackwork. “Today’s report is alarming, but not surprising,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “It again highlights what has been painfully obvious for years: Metro’s safety culture is lacking. The WMATA rank-and-file workforce has taken much of the blame for recent safety lapses, and while employees should and have been held accountable, that accountability must extend throughout the chain of command. It is unacceptable for the nation’s second largest subway system to have inadequate training protocols for basic track inspections. We cannot expect our WMATA workforce to succeed if we do not give them the basic tools and resources required to achieve success.” WMATA has confirmed that it intends to comply with FTA’s twelve action steps. One of the first of these reads, “WMATA must commit adequate resources and technically qualified personnel to the inspection of special trackwork and the completion of required corrective maintenance.”
07.25.2016	Representatives Donald S. Beyer Jr. and Gerald E. Connolly today sent a letter the Office of Personnel Management demanding additional details about the sudden and significant jump in premiums under the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program. Notices were mailed this week to the nearly 264,000 affected FLTCIP participants, including thousands of federal and postal employees whom Connolly and Beyer represent in Northern Virginia. Under a new contract for the FLTCIP, the incumbent provider John Hancock, has said premiums will need to increase based on new actuarial models. Starting November 1, the average premium increase will be 83%, with some participants seeing increases as high as 126%. “For those on a fixed or limited income, such an increase is simply unaffordable,” Beyer and Connolly wrote in the letter. The Members noted that the last time the FLTCIP contract was renewed with John Hancock in 2009, premiums increased by an average of 17%, with some as high as 25%. In their letter they specifically ask OPM to explain how the new premiums were calculated and why annual benchmarks were not incorporated to avert such a spike in participant cost. In addition, Connolly and Beyer questioned the period of time with which FLTCIP participants have to elect any changes in their coverage if they want to reduce their premiums and/or insurance coverage. They note the “September 30th deadline is concerning given the short duration for a purchasing population whose average age is 60. Medicare, by comparison, has a three month enrollment period.” The full text of the letter can be read below (also attached): July 22, 2016 Acting Director Beth F. Cobert U.S. Office of Personnel Management 1900 E Street, NW Washington, DC 20415-1000 Dear Acting Director Cobert: As representatives of the National Capitol Region, we represent a disproportionate share of the enrollees in the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program (FLTCIP). We write to express our concern about the extreme increase in premiums as part of the contract renewal for the FLTCIP. The cost of the insurance is expected to increase by an average of 83%, or $111 a month, with some enrollees experiencing increases of up to 126% starting, November 1st. This will impact over 264,000 enrollees. For those on a fixed or limited income, such an increase is simply unaffordable. By comparison, the last time OPM awarded the seven-year contract to John Hancock Life and Health Insurance Company, premiums rose on average 17%, with some as high as 25%. It merits a reconsideration of how we structure FLTCIP so that price spikes at this extreme can be avoided. Moreover, the Enrollee Decision Period of July 18 through September 30th is concerning given the short duration for a purchasing population whose average age is 60. Medicare, by comparison, has a three month enrollment period. We respectfully request your response to the following questions: 1. What accounts for the significant increase in premiums and how is that being calculated? 2. What outreach or support is being offered to enrollees beyond mailing letters? 3. Please identify ways you are working with enrollees to make these price spikes more affordable. For example, is OPM or John Hancock considering graduated premiums without a dramatic decrease in coverage? 4. Are annual benchmarks incorporated to ensure that the actuarial projected value matches the actual value? If not, why? We look forward to your response. It is of grave concern and urgency to our constituents to have answers before the decision period ends. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Gerald E. Connolly
07.20.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement today regarding the loss of Congressman Mark Takai of Hawaii: “I am so saddened to hear of the passing of my fellow member of the freshman class, Mark Takai. Mark was a friend to all of us, a hallmate on the fourth floor of Cannon, and a warm spirit whose presence we had already missed. His being robbed of life at the age of 49 reminds us all of our own mortality and of our need to live life to its fullest, as Mark did.”
07.15.2016	Congressman Don Beyer today announced that he introduced bipartisan legislation, in partnership with Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), to stop seismic airgun blasting along the Atlantic seaboard. While offshore petroleum extraction is off limits in the Atlantic until at least 2022 due to a recent Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) decision, permits for seismic airgun blasting remain under consideration. “I was so happy when BOEM opted to protect Atlantic coastal communities, including those in Virginia, from offshore drilling, but we still have more work to do.” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Airgun blasting threatens critically important species and, in turn, our coastal communities. Marine life and ocean biodiversity aren’t just important to coastal environments, they are the bedrock of local and regional economies dependent on tourism, recreation, and many other industries. Let’s pass this bill and protect our Atlantic communities and fellow species.” Seismic airgun pulses are loud, repetitive, explosive sounds used to identify oil and gas reservoirs deep in the ocean floor. Unfortunately, sound travels so efficiently under water that these seismic blasts are known to cause hearing damage, stress, and other harm to a range of aquatic species, including the critically endangered North Atlantic right whale, of which fewer than 500 remain. Oceana campaign director Claire Douglass applauded the new bill: “The fight to protect the Atlantic is not over. Oceana applauds Reps. Beyer and LoBiondo for their continued leadership to stop seismic airgun blasting in the Atlantic. With offshore drilling off the table, there is absolutely no reason to risk the damage that would be caused by seismic airgun blasting. In addition to being extremely loud, these blasts are of special concern to marine life, including fish, turtles and whales, which depend on sound for communication and survival. “Along the Atlantic coast, nearly 1.4 million jobs and over $95 billion in gross domestic product rely on healthy ocean ecosystems, mainly through fishing, tourism and recreation. Coastal communities remain united in their opposition to offshore drilling activities off the East Coast. As of today, over 110 East Coast municipalities have publically opposed seismic airgun blasting and/or offshore drilling, citing concerns to marine life, coastal communities and local economies. It’s time for President Obama to stop seismic airgun blasting and protect the more than 100,000 marine mammals currently in harm’s way. Instead of expanding our dependence on risky offshore drilling, we should rapidly develop clean energy solutions like offshore wind.”
07.14.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on continuing Congressional inaction in the famous of major public health crises: “Gun violence, Zika, and contaminated drinking water are urgent problems confronting Americans now,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “The fact that Congress has gone into summer recess without making progress on any of these issues is a stunning failure of leadership. We should not be leaving town without doing the people’s business. These problems cannot wait until September.” The House of Representatives recessed today, and is not scheduled to resume legislative business until September 6.
07.13.2016	Ranking Member of the Oversight Subcommittee, Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA), joined Science Committee Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Congresswoman Katherine Clark (D-MA), and Congressman Paul Tonko (D-NY) in delivering the following statement on the Chairman’s issuance of eleven subpoenas to the Massachusetts and New York attorneys general (AGs) and a number of non-governmental organizations: “We strongly condemn the Science Committee Majority’s unlawful subpoenas issued today to the New York and Massachusetts Attorneys General and nine non-governmental organizations. As we and the various targets of these subpoenas have repeatedly pointed out, these actions are plainly unconstitutional. The Majority’s illegitimate actions set a very dangerous precedent and are one more step towards solidifying this Committee’s unfortunate new reputation as a committee of witch hunts.” Rep. Beyer previously wrote a letter to Chairman Lamar Smith admonishing the Committee’s partisan actions to prevent proper investigations into potential frauds. The letter was signed by Members of Congress from Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. The attorneys general of VA, MD, and DC were targets of previous harassing letters.
07.08.2016	Last night in our telephone town hall, Robin from Arlington asked me what I thought about Philando Castile and Alton Sterling, black men shot by police officers in St. Paul, MN, and Baton Rouge, LA. Here is what I told Robin. Their deaths made me incredibly sad. I didn’t want to watch the videos, but I feel a responsibility to try to understand what happened. I’m pleased that the governors of both states immediately called for Department of Justice investigations. I’m also pleased that the shootings were videotaped, and I have long called for body-cameras for every police officer, nationwide. They are important for transparency, and for accountability. Black lives matter. These were not isolated events. They were part of a larger pattern, and we need to do all that we can to counter this trend. We need to have better training for officials to diffuse potentially hostile situations without lethal violence. We have come a long way since John Lewis marched over Edmund Pettus Bridge, but we still have a long way to go. A few hours after I said these words, we were confronted with the horrible attack on law enforcement in Dallas, where one civilian and 12 police officers were shot, five fatally. These courageous officers charged towards gunfire to put themselves between danger and people engaged in a peaceful protest. When Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said “hate begets hate, violence begets violence,” he was appealing to the better angels of our nature to reject violence and hate. As we try to make sense of so much tragic violence, we would do well to reflect upon the wisdom of his words.
07.06.2016	Rep. Don Beyer joined U.S. Senator Tim Kaine and Representative Bobby Scott in applauding unanimous House passage of a bipartisan bill that would recognize the resilience and contributions of African Americans to the United States since 1619. Kaine and Warner introduced the Senate version and Scott the House version of the 400 Years of African American History Commission Act in February. The bill would establish a commission to plan programs and activities across the country in 2019 to highlight the arrival and influence of Africans in America. Today’s House-passed bill was introduced by Virginia Representative Bobby Scott, and cosponsored by Representatives Scott Rigell, Don Beyer, Gerry Connolly, Barbara Comstock, Rob Wittman, and Randy Forbes, as well as members of the Congressional Black Caucus, including Chairman G.K Butterfield and Congressman John Lewis. The commission would be charged with recognizing and the resilience and contribution of African Americans since 1619, as well as acknowledging the painful impact that slavery and laws that enforced racial discrimination have had on our nation’s history. Similar commissions have been established to recognize English & Hispanic heritage, including the 400th anniversary of the founding of Jamestown, Virginia and the 450th anniversary of the founding of St. Augustine, Florida. Kaine testified in support of this bill in front of the a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee this month. “Understanding our 400 years of African-American history is crucial to understanding our national story: what we got right, what we got horribly wrong, and what we still have to accomplish,” said Rep. Beyer. “This bill will help us grapple with that history, and I thank my friends Bobby Scott and Tim Kaine and my other Virginia colleagues for putting it forward.” “This bill is so connected to our country’s history and heritage, and we are excited that it is one step closer to final passage,” Sen. Kaine said. “Every dimension of American life, across generations, has been influenced by African Americans. We need to tell that story – in its tragedy and triumph- as we approach the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first Africans at Point Comfort, Virginia. We will continue to work to advance this bill in the Senate in the coming months.” “I applaud my colleagues in the House for passing this bill,” said Rep. Scott. “The history of Virginia and our nation cannot be fully understood or appreciated without knowing about the first Africans who arrived at Point Comfort, Virginia in 1619. The commission established by this bill will be charged with the important task of planning, developing and implementing a series of programs and activities throughout 2019 that fully tells the story of African Americans, their contributions to the fabric of our nation, and their resilience over the last 400 years.” “We cannot move forward as a country unless we recognize the injustices that occurred in our past,” said Sen. Warner. “The creation of this commission is an opportunity to institutionalize the contributions made by African Americans in our country, and a monument to their resilience in the face of adversity. It is my hope that this legislation paves the way for future efforts to honor the important role African Americans have played in our history, and highlight ways we can work together to forge a path towards a better future.” “As a student of history, I can’t help but look to the lessons of the past when contemplating the future. In addition to being reminded of the ramifications of slavery in our nation, I can recall state constitutional provisions that led to segregation policies which extended into my childhood, when I attended segregated schools in the first and second grades. Additionally, one of my favorite teachers, my sixth grade teacher Mrs. Spurlock, had previously taught in the segregated system. I appreciate this bill’s efforts to highlight the immeasurable influence of African Americans such as Mrs. Spurlock, and am honored to support the legislation,” said Rep. Griffith. “I am pleased the House passed this bipartisan, bicameral bill,” said Rep. Rigell. “The ‘400 Years of African-American History Commission’ will help our nation to properly reflect upon the significant contributions African-Americans have made to our country, and the struggles they have endured during our history. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to pass this important bill and send it to the President’s desk for signature immediately.” “I am pleased the House passed this legislation to create a commission that will tell the important story of the significant contributions made by African-Americans to our Commonwealth and the country. We cannot tell the whole story of America without including the first African-Americans who arrived to the shores of Virginia in 1619 to Point Comfort. I look forward to the work this commission will do in educating our entire community and hope the U.S. Senate will pass this quickly,” said Rep. Comstock. "This bipartisan legislation honors 400 years of African American contributions here in the U.S.,” said Rep. Wittman. “The men and women who first arrived in Point Comfort, Virginia in 1619 faced adversity of every kind and at every turn, and their perseverance carried them as they shaped our national heritage. Theirs are stories that deserve to be told, and the commission that this legislation will create provides necessary tools to make sure that future generations can benefit from learning about their vigilance. I want to thank my Virginia colleagues in both the House and Senate for their hard work on this bill, and I look forward to their continued support." “2019 will mark 400 years since the first documented arrival of Africans by way of Point Comfort, Virginia. It’s time for our nation to commemorate the contributions and resilience African Americans have made throughout history. I am pleased to have been a part of the introduction of H.R. 4539, which, when passed, will establish a commission to highlight the influence and contributions African Americans have made in our country since 1619. It will also recognize the painful impact of slavery 400 years ago, as well as the racial discrimination and oppression that continues today. I congratulate Congressmen Bobby Scott and Don Beyer on House passage of H.R. 4539. I also thank U.S. Senators Tim Kaine and Mark Warner for sponsoring the Senate companion, and Hilary Shelton, Director of the NAACP Washington Bureau, for supporting this Act,” said Rep. Butterfield. The bill is supported by the National NAACP, National Urban League and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. The full text of the Senate legislation can be found here.
07.05.2016	Congressional representatives from Virginia and the District of Columbia today announced that the National Park Service (NPS), jointly with the District Department of Transportation, has been awarded a $90 million FASTLANE Grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation for repairs to Arlington Memorial Bridge, which carries 68,000 vehicles daily. Rep. Don Beyer, Sens. Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine, Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Reps. Gerry Connolly and Barbara Comstock jointly issued the following statement: “We are very pleased to announce that the Department of Transportation has selected Arlington Memorial Bridge to receive a $90 million FASTLANE grant. While additional federal resources will be needed to complete this $250 million project, this funding will allow NPS to move forward with planning and contracting immediately so that construction can begin early next year. This significant federal investment will go a long way towards ensuring that Memorial Bridge remains open, which is welcome news for the region’s commuters.” “We are proud that the entire National Capital Region delegation worked together to make sure that the National Park Service submitted a strong application for this FASTLANE Grant. This would not have been possible without the crucial support of Mayor Bowser and the District Department of Transportation.” “The congressional delegation looks forward to working with all local jurisdictions and our colleagues in Congress to ensure that sufficient resources are allocated to fully repair the Bridge and keep this 84-year-old icon of American infrastructure standing strong.” Today’s funding announcement will go toward Phase 1 of the reconstruction of the Arlington Memorial Bridge. The Memorial Bridge, which was originally built in 1932, has exceeded its 75-year design life and is structurally deficient, having never undergone a major rehabilitation. It is currently posted with a 10-ton load limit and buses are prohibited from crossing. Without a major overhaul, the project will be closed to vehicular traffic in 2021. Phase 1 will focus on the approach spans, which are the most in need of repairs, at a total cost of $166 million. Completion of Phase 1 will allow the bridge to remain open until 2030 while additional actions are taken to complete Phase 2, the reconstruction of main bascule span. Closing the Memorial Bridge would cost local governments a projected $168,000 per day ($75 million per year) in transportation outlays alone, according to the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments. Transit studies suggest that traffic from the bridge would spill over onto other area bridges, particularly the 14th Street Bridge and Roosevelt Bridge. In April, the congressional delegation wrote to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx to endorse the FASTLANE application. Last month, Sens. Mark R. Warner and Tim Kaine and D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser joined NPS on a tour for a firsthand look at the rapidly deteriorating state of Memorial Bridge.
06.27.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on today’s Supreme Court ruling in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt: “Common sense and justice for women and families prevailed at the Supreme Court today,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “This decision once again affirms our nation’s longstanding policy that women have the right to an abortion until viability, and that efforts by anti-choice forces to deny that right through lack of access imposes an undue burden. Anti-choice forces in Virginia apply the same tactics, and have also failed. We will continue every effort to maintain and expand women’s healthcare access in Virginia.” The Whole Woman’s Health decision strikes a Texas law restricting women’s health through unnecessary regulation, intentionally designed to limit a women's access to abortion‎.
06.23.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on today’s Supreme Court ruling in United States v. Texas: “Today’s Supreme Court decision halting President Obama’s immigration directives is wrong-headed and short-sighted. I have every confidence that this is a temporary obstacle for these families, but it is nonetheless a heartbreaking one. President Obama’s Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals programs gave hope to peaceful, law-abiding immigrants, many of whom made deep sacrifices to come to the United States to make a better life for their families.“
06.22.2016	Representative Beyer today assailed Congressional inaction over the Orlando mass shooting and the public health crisis of gun violence ahead of a scheduled recess of the House of Representatives. Just last week, House Republicans voted to block consideration of H.R. 1076, the bipartisan “No Fly, No Buy” legislation, an idea supported by 86 percent of Virginia voters. “It is unacceptable for House leaders to refuse to act at this time,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Many of my constituents have written to say that they have had enough. They are outraged that Congress would adjourn without even voting on a bill to address gun violence. They are right: it is an outrage. The Speaker should be concerned with protecting Americans from dangerous people with guns, not protecting his Members from hard votes and the gun lobby.” Though the Senate scheduled votes on bills, including amendments to expand background checks and to block gun sales for suspected terrorists, House leadership has steadfastly refused to allow a vote on any gun violence legislation following Orlando. “Many of my colleagues seem content to simply offer moments of silence before leaving town without having acted,” Beyer added. “I will not be silent. Those killed in mass shootings like the one in Orlando deserve better. We should not recess without passing a bill.”
06.16.2016	Congressman Don Beyer is convening a community meeting with the Federal Aviation Administration, the Metro Washington Aviation Administration, and community leaders. The announcement comes after recent changes to departure procedures for aircraft taking off to the south of the airport. WHO: FAA officials MWAA officials City of Alexandria officials Supervisor Dan Stork Senator Adam Ebbin Delegate Paul Krizek WHERE: National Airport, Historic Terminal A Lobby WHEN: June 27, 2016 at 6 PM The meeting, scheduled for June 27, 2016, at National Airport, will allow residents to hear first-hand from airport and FAA officials regarding changes to the regional airspace, and about a proposed solution which the National Community Noise Working group is developing. The forum will also allow residents to voice their concerns to MWAA and the FAA directly. Parking is available in the garages for $6 per hour. Attendees are encouraged to take Metro or car pool, as the garages fill up due to summer travel. The forum is open to anyone, and will focus on National Airport’s south flow operations.
06.13.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement in the wake of the tragedy at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando early Sunday morning: “Our hearts are broken. Forty-nine Americans, in the primes of their lives, murdered in the name of an evil ideology, targeted for their sexual orientation. I don’t want to believe the death toll. As with so many tragedies in our nation’s and the world’s history, we cannot fathom the cruelty and raw evil of man’s inhumanity to man. “But it seems essential that we figure out how to stop these slaughters. “Number one, we must make progress on gun safety. When the Founding Fathers wrote and ratified the Bill of Rights to our Constitution, the right for a “well-regulated militia... to keep and bear arms” certainly did not anticipate military grade automatic weapons capable of killing huddled school children and dancing young people by the dozens in seconds. Banning assault weapons must be a meaningful first step. “Number two, we must be committed to the long term fight against Islamic extremism. The ISIS and al-Qaeda inspired missions to kill infidels and to proclaim an Islamic caliphate have created an ideological terror center for the most unbalanced people within a massive, historic, peaceful religion. While respecting the millions of Muslims who live, work, and build communities with us, contributing to our American society and culture – still, we must be relentless in detecting, disrupting, and destroying the extremist cells and their acolytes, here and abroad. “Number three, we must recognize that homophobia cannot be contained. Hatred breeds hatred. We are horrified that one man targeted LGBT victims at two a.m. on an Orlando Sunday morning. But we are not blameless, when we tell government contractors it is okay to discriminate against someone because they are gay or lesbian – or tell transgender school children that we will not respect their gender identity. “Our sincere, sustained message of inclusion will create a powerful wall against LGBT hate. “We live in an imperfect world. But let’s do what we can – ban assault weapons, destroy ISIS, and celebrate our LGBT friends and family. Perhaps this is how we best honor the fallen of Orlando.”
06.10.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on his vote against the H.Con.Res. 89, which expresses the sense of Congress that a carbon tax is detrimental to the United States economy: share: f t Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on his vote against the H.Con.Res. 89, which expresses the sense of Congress that a carbon tax is detrimental to the United States economy: “This resolution serves no legislative purpose other than to delay or derail action to mitigate anthropogenic contributions to climate change. Countless studies have found that our failure to address climate change will generate massive costs downstream, whether it’s agriculture disruption, sea level rise, keystone species elimination, disease mobility, or weather events. “Implemented properly, a price on carbon would help “internalize” the cost of carbon-intensive activities, reduce the greenhouse gas emissions, and drive innovation and corresponding job-creation. Further, if the carbon pricing took the form of a cap and dividend, the revenue generated from the carbon pricing could be returned directly to working families. “On the minority side, we are ready to find solutions. If a carbon tax is something the majority simply cannot stomach, then surely there is common ground elsewhere for meaningful action. “We must stop backward-looking climate resolutions and focus on what we can do to meet perhaps the biggest challenge of our time.”
06.09.2016	June 9, 2016 (Washington, DC) – Members of the National Capital Region House delegation today wrote Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Administrator Michael Huerta expressing concern over the din from military helicopters in their communities. The group offered their assistance in helping Department of Defense (DOD) and FAA complete a report mandated by Rep. Beyer’s amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to study changes to the region’s helicopter flight routes, operating procedures, and even the types of helicopters flown in the national capital airspace to mitigate the effect of noise on the region’s neighborhoods: “Our constituents are realistic about the noise helicopters generate and are sensitive to the operational needs of our military. But they are correct in asking if alternatives to low altitude flyovers exist to mitigate the noise and vibrations from military helicopters, especially with the addition of large combat helicopters to the skies over Northern Virginia, DC, and Maryland. We are ready and able to assist Secretary Carter and the FAA in delivering a timely report by facilitating their outreach to our communities most impacted by these low altitude flyovers.” At an Arlington community meeting last year with the FAA and every service branch, FAA reported that 144 helicopter operations take place each day in Northern Virginia alone; they estimate 75% of those are DOD missions. Read the full text below: June 9, 2016 Ash Carter Secretary Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301 Dear Secretary Carter: We write concerning the increasing volume and frequency of military helicopter operations in the National Capital Region, which negatively affect our constituents. This disturbance to residential areas is a constant source of concern and complaint from many constituents, even when the helicopters adhere to flight procedures and routes. The noise and vibrations created by these trips can be alarming, especially when passing so close to residential areas at the low altitude dictated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). According to the FAA, at least 144 helicopter operations take place each day in the National Capital Region, of which 75 percent are Department of Defense (DOD) helicopters. Especially concerning is the addition of the V-22 Osprey to the local residential airspace. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (NDAA) recently passed the United States House of Representatives. As you may know, the NDAA included language directing the DOD, working with the FAA, to reevaluate air traffic control, air space design, airspace management, and the types of aircraft in operation, to address helicopter noise problems. The bill directs the Department and the FAA to develop recommendations for the reduction of military helicopter noise, taking into account the operational needs of the military while offering residents a much-needed reprieve from ubiquitous helicopter noise. In this endeavor, our offices are willing to support your outreach to communities to ensure the DOD and the FAA receive the most comprehensive information regarding the effects of military helicopter noise. Thank you for your consideration of our concerns. We, and our constituents, look forward to receiving your report as soon as possible. Please contact Thomas Scanlon (thomas.scanlon@mail.house.gov) with Rep. Don Beyer’s office with any questions or concerns. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Eleanor Holmes Norton 8th District, Virginia Washington, D.C. Chris Van Hollen Gerry Connolly 8th District, Maryland 11th District, Virginia Barbara Comstock 10th District, Virginia Cc: Federal Aviation Administrator Michael Peter Huerta ###
06.02.2016	Rep. Don Beyer wrote House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology’s (SST) Chairman Lamar Smith today, in response to his missives to seventeen state attorneys general, including Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia, and eight environmental organizations requesting documents related to their work on climate change. The Smith letters, signed by thirteen Republican SST Members, requests documents and information related to ongoing collaboration regarding climate change, including investigations into allegations Exxon Mobil knowingly misled the public, investors, and consumers about the dangerous impact of climate change for decades. The Smith letters un-ironically impeach the integrity of each individual AG office for transparently pursuing claims of potential wrongdoing. “The Chairman is doing no one’s work but Exxon’s with this fishing expedition disguised as oversight,” said Rep. Beyer. “Our state AG offices are well within their rights to investigate allegations that Exxon Mobil fraudulently concealed what they knew about the risks of climate change; in fact, it is their job. The House Science Committee should endeavor to promote sound science. Instead it continues to intimidate and denigrate scientists and others who seek to advance climate science over climate denial.” Virginia Attorney General Mark Herring voiced his support, saying, “Climate change is a real and urgent threat to the health, security, and economic well-being of our Commonwealth. Instead of attempting to intimidate or obstruct those of us who are actually trying to work on the problem, my fellow attorneys general and I would welcome the cooperation and collaboration of the House Science Committee. My colleagues and I appreciate Rep. Beyer and the other members of the Virginia, Maryland, and Washington D.C. delegations who are standing up for problem solving and sound science against the obstruction and the baseless accusations the chairman has casually tossed around.” Congressional leaders from Virginia, Maryland, and DC – Reps. Edwards, Norton, Van Hollen, and Connolly, and Scott – joined Rep. Beyer in responding to the Smith letters and the Majority’s requests: “The inquiry amounts to a fishing expedition and is a continuation of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee’s transparent and baseless attempts to impugn the integrity of individuals who seek to advance climate science over climate denial. It also demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of the Committee’s jurisdiction and the role of states’ attorneys general, as outlined below.” Read the full text below: The Honorable Lamar Smith Chairman of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology U.S. House of Representatives 2321 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Smith: We write to express our concerns regarding the letter (Letter) you sent on May 18, 2016 to the attorneys general of seventeen U.S. states and territories, including Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia, which we represent, and to other organizations. The stated purpose of the Letter was to request information as part of an effort, ostensibly, to conduct “oversight of a coordinated attempt to deprive companies, nonprofit organization, and scientists of their First Amendment rights and ability to fund and conduct scientific research free from intimidation and threats of prosecution.” After constructing a narrative of shadowy collusion, and pausing to expressly “question the integrity of [each AG’s] office,” the Letter requests records it hopes will validate its “investigation.” The inquiry amounts to a fishing expedition and is a continuation of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee’s transparent and baseless attempts to impugn the integrity of individuals who seek to advance climate science over climate denial. It also demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of the Committee’s jurisdiction and the role of states’ attorneys general, as outlined below. Indeed, the extraordinary nature of the Letter, and lack of focused oversight, may explain why over 40 percent of the Committee’s Republican Members (9 out of 21) chose not to sign it. Or perhaps Republican Members abstained because the Letter is ideologically inconsistent with conservative positions on states’ rights and federal overreach. Because it represents a misuse of authority, we, the undersigned, hereby request that the Letter and all corresponding requests be withdrawn. The Science, Space, and Technology Committee should return its focus to science, space, and technology. The Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Lacks Appropriate Jurisdiction to Conduct the Oversight Sought Regardless of the merits of the Letter’s accusations, which appear extraordinarily weak, the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology lacks jurisdiction to oversee the matter at issue. The Letter justifies its requests by suggesting the “oversight” would address: “serious concerns about the impartiality and independence of current investigations by the attorneys general;” “abuse of prosecutorial discretion;” and “a coordinated attempt to attack the First Amendment rights of American citizens and their ability to fund and conduct scientific research free from intimidation and prosecution.” The Letter asserts jurisdictional propriety by stating that the Committee “has jurisdiction over environmental and scientific programs and ‘shall review and study on a continuing basis laws, programs, and Government activities’ as set forth in House Rule X.” Remarkably, the Letter fails to include the broader contextual language of the Rule X authority it cites. In reality, House Rule X provides, “The Committee on Science, Space, and Technology shall review and study on a continuing basis laws, programs, and Government activities relating to nonmilitary research and development.”[1] (Emphasis added). House Rule X also implies jurisdiction over federal R&D, not state criminal investigative authority. Despite the Letter’s attempt to shoehorn jurisdiction by referencing scientific research, the Letter squarely represents an attempt to oversee state prosecutorial conduct, not environmental or scientific programs nor nonmilitary research and development. Any connection to climate science is incidental and immaterial to the alleged misconduct. The investigation therefore patently exceeds the jurisdictional scope of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. Ultimately, the behavior of state attorneys general vis-à-vis state law is a matter for state courts and state legislatures. States’ rights long being a central pillar of conservative philosophy, the Letter’s effort to meddle directly in the self-governance and prosecutorial discretion of 17 U.S. states and territories is not lacking for irony. Role of States’ Attorneys General The Letter asserts that the Committee is “concerned” about cooperation between states’ attorneys general and contends that “efforts to silence speech . . . run counter to an attorney general’s dut[ies] . . . .” As a refresher, states’ attorneys general represent the interests of the people of their states and have the duty and power to investigate criminal activities, such as organized criminal enterprises and fraud against taxpayers. They also play an important role in the areas of environmental policy and ensuring consumers are treated fairly. If it is in fact true, as has been alleged, that certain extractive industry corporations knew about the dangerous impact of climate change since as far back as the 1970s and knowingly misled investors and consumers, the alleged actions amount to fraud committed against the public, and it is well within an AG’s scope of jurisdiction to investigate. Further, communication between AG offices and outside groups or subject matter experts is not evidence of collusion, nor is it uncommon. The free exchange of ideas is one of the foundations of the First Amendment and should be encouraged. The Letter erroneously equates benign communication to collusion, ignoring the fact that AGs “routinely seek input from outside organizations but pursue cases based only on the merits.”[2] A comparison to Big Tobacco is useful here. The scientific connection between smoking and deadly diseases had been accepted by the scientific community and disputed almost exclusively by industry and the “scientists” on its payroll. It was states’ attorneys general who first exposed the withholding of knowledge related to the health effects of smoking by tobacco companies, which ultimately led to the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement between the four largest U.S. tobacco companies and the attorneys general of 46 states. Were the tobacco fight to take place today, on which side would the drafters of the Letter find themselves? On the side of unambiguous scientific evidence? Or on the side of those working to manufacture and inject ambiguity into the public’s understanding of the science, even though they knew better? On the side of those who cried First-Amendment foul when, at long last, prosecutors asserted that the tobacco industry had no constitutional right to commit fraud against the entire American public? If profit-induced ideology were to have won out over science in that battle, we would still have smoking on planes, kid-friendly cigarette brand ambassadors, and smoking near children, along with all the public health expenses attendant thereto. Thousands of additional lives would have been lost to lung cancer and other tobacco-related health ailments. Fortunately, history played out differently, owing in no small part to the ability of independent attorneys general to try their best legal arguments in the courts. The Letter claims transparency as its goal. Yet, its true purpose is clear: to keep the public in the dark about whether Exxon lied to its investors and the public. Apparently it is not enough for Republican Members of the House Science Committee to deny the overwhelming weight of climate science. Apparently it is not enough for them to refuse to take action on the harmful human contributions to climate change. Apparently it is not enough to have transformed the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology into a perpetual witch-hunt mob to drum up false narratives about climate science and climate scientists. Instead, the Letter’s authors now see fit to take the unprecedented step of harassing and questioning the integrity of top law enforcement officials from seventeen U.S. states and territories—all to prevent proper investigation into potentially criminally fraudulent activity. Conclusion For the reasons stated, we hereby request that the Letter and all corresponding requests be withdrawn. We respectfully request that the drafters of the Letter let the cases at issue play out in the courts. Judges, rather than Members of Congress, have both the jurisdiction and the legal training to determine the merits of legal arguments. We look forward to working with you and other Members of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology to reach resolution on this matter. [1] Rules of the House Of Representatives, 114th Congress, at Rule X(3)(k). Available at http://clerk.house.gov/ legislative/house-rules.pdf [2] See http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/apr/17/democratic-ags-climate-change-groups-colluded-on-p/?page=all.
05.18.2016	The Department of Labor (DOL) today issued its final ruling to adjust eligibility for overtime labor among salaried workers under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Congressman Beyer welcomed the DOL’s expansion of overtime protections, which will give an estimated 4 million workers a raise in pay. “Today’s announcement by DOL will greatly expand earning power for working families,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “These updates to existing overtime regulations will help to grow and strengthen the middle class, and achieve increases in health, productivity, and work-life balance of American workers.” The DOL rule on overtime will also mandate automatic updates to the threshold for determining overtime eligibility, previously updates only once in the last four decades.
05.18.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on his vote against the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act: share: f t Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on his vote against the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act: “I’m proud that my amendments to reform source selection processes at the Department of Defense and to begin quieting the skies over Northern Virginia were successfully included in this year’s National Defense Authorization Act. However, this bill undermines President Obama’s support for our troops on front lines around the globe; erodes important LGBT civil rights protections President Obama announced for federal workers and contractors in his 2014 executive order; and, continues to block widely supported efforts to close the Guantanamo Bay prison. In addition, two other important amendments I offered were wrongly ruled out of order -- one supporting Defense Department actions in response to the global threat from climate change, and another to secure funds to rehabilitate Memorial Bridge, an important access road to Arlington National Cemetery. Thanks to the budget agreement negotiated last year, House Republicans had the opportunity to present a bipartisan defense bill that guaranteed robust support for our troops, upheld our nation’s values, and did not erode important and popular civil rights protections. Instead they presented us with a partisan attack on our core principles. I cannot support this bill.”
05.17.2016	Congressman Don Beyer today hailed the 100th cosponsor in the House of Representatives for the Freedom Of Religion Act. The bill, introduced by Beyer last week with a group of Democratic co-leads,‎ would block the use of religious litmus tests as a means to prevent immigrants, refugees, and international visitors from attempting to enter the United States. “It is wonderful that the Freedom of Religion Act got to 100 cosponsors so quickly, but it should have 435 cosponsors,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Nothing in this bill should be controversial. We are merely pledging support for a deeply-held American value – freedom from religious discrimination – in response to challenges from the extremes of American political discourse.” The bill’s 100th cosponsor is Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the Ranking Democrat on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. There are now 102 cosponsors of the legislation; all but one are Democrats. The bill was introduced in response to political rhetoric vilifying refugees and immigrants for their religious beliefs. It is supported by a coalition of 106 organizations from a wide variety of faiths and backgrounds in civil rights and civil liberties.
05.13.2016	Rep. Don Beyer, joined by two dozen other Members of Congress, urged ongoing pressure from the State Department on Egyptian officials to cease their harassment of the media, human rights organizations and other non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The letter, spurred by a request from the Fund for Global Human Rights and supported by Amnesty International, Freedom House, Human Rights First, and the Project on Middle East Democracy, comes less than two weeks before the May 23 resumption by the Egyptian government of deliberations on a 2011 foreign funding case against numerous human rights organizations. Among the issues the letter calls for are an end to this case, the lifting of travel bans and asset freezes that were “arbitrarily ordered against human rights defenders,” and the pardoning of all NGO staff who were convicted in the foreign funding case. The full letter and list of signers can be found here.
05.11.2016	In response to political rhetoric vilifying select religious groups and increasingly hostile rhetoric toward religious freedom in the immigration system, a House delegation, including Reps. Don Beyer (VA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Keith Ellison (MN), Joe Crowley (NY), Jan Schakowsky (IL), Mike Honda (CA), Betty McCollum (MN), André Carson (ID), introduced the Freedom of Religion Act today to prohibit the use of religious litmus tests as a means to ban immigrants, refugees, and international visitors trying to enter the United States. share: f t In response to political rhetoric vilifying select religious groups and increasingly hostile rhetoric toward religious freedom in the immigration system, a House delegation, including Reps. Don Beyer (VA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Keith Ellison (MN), Joe Crowley (NY), Jan Schakowsky (IL), Mike Honda (CA), Betty McCollum (MN), André Carson (IN), introduced the Freedom of Religion Act today to prohibit the use of religious litmus tests as a means to ban immigrants, refugees, and international visitors trying to enter the United States. “We cannot allow fear and paranoia to drive our public policy, especially when it comes to the defining values of our country,” said Rep. Beyer. “Our Founding Fathers guaranteed religious freedom for all in the First Amendment to our Constitution. People all around the world look to us as the standard for freedom, liberty, and tolerance.” “The first Americans often were refugees from religion oppression,” said Norton. “Many come today for the same reason. We betray our first principles when religion becomes a qualification for entry or exclusion from the United States.” “Our country is built on religious tolerance and the freedom to worship. When presidential candidates talk about closing our borders to people of a certain faith, they aren’t just being prejudiced – they’re being un-American. This bill will uphold our core values by guaranteeing that religion isn’t used to decide who can enter the country. The inscription on the Statue of Liberty reads: ‘Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” It doesn’t say anything about a person’s faith,” said Rep. Keith Ellison. “This bill is about the very foundation our nation was built on, and that’s religious freedom,” said Rep. Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. “Unfortunately, the rhetoric we’ve heard over the past year or so has not only greatly affected our national discourse, it has fanned the flames of hate and hurt innocent families. I’m proud to join Congressman Beyer and my colleagues on this legislation - we must ensure that the United States will continue to remain a model for religious tolerance and freedom.” “As a nation of immigrants, we should welcome all who come to this country regardless of their religion or ethnic background,” said Rep. Schakowsky. “It is outrageous that many in this country are fanning the flames of hatred and intolerance by pushing for a religious test to enter the country. I am proud to stand with my colleagues today in supporting this legislation that will ban any attempt to prevent people from entering this country based on their religion. We are one nation, and we will only rise above the hatred spouted by terrorists abroad by staying united here at home.” “I have been proud take our oath of office and promise to protect and defend the Constitution,” said Rep. Honda. “That Constitution makes it the mission of our nation to fully defend the right to freely practice religion. It is sad that, based on our current politics, that mission must be written into a new law, but as long as that step is needed, I will absolutely support that law.” “As Americans, we take great pride in our Constitutional guarantee of religious freedom. It would insult that tradition to impose a religious test at our borders,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this bill, which ensures our country lives up to its best traditions of openness, tolerance, and religious freedom.” “To turn our back on immigrants would be to betray our nation's core values,” said Rep. Andre Carson. “Blocking immigrants because of their religion would send a demoralizing and dangerous message to the world that the United States is no longer a beacon of freedom. This critical legislation signals that the United States has always been, and will continue to be, a country that welcomes people of all races, ethnicities, and religions.” “I’m proud to cosponsor Rep. Beyer’s bill, which makes clear that the United States does not discriminate based on religion. Regardless of what Donald Trump may think, barring members of a particular religious group from entering the country is unconstitutional and would never be supported by Congress or the courts. Like many before them, those seeking to come to our country are doing so because they want a better future for themselves and their children. I hope House Republicans will join with us as cosponsors of this bill to send a strong message of support for our Constitution and the freedoms we hold dear and that have sustained us for generations,” said House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer. Additionally, the bill has more than 70 bipartisan original co-sponsors: Reps. Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Reps. Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Steve Israel (D-NY), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Al Green (D-TX), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Adam Smith (D-WA), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Bobby Rush (D-IL) Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Mark Takai (D-HI), John Delaney (D-MD), Sander Levin (D-MI), Mark Takano (D-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), David Cicilline (D-RI), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Sander Levin (D-MI), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), John Conyers (D-MI), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Donald Payne Jr. (D-NJ), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Robert Brady (D-PA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), John Larson (D-CT), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Sam Farr (D-CA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Jose Serrano (D-NY), John Garamendi (D-CA), Ron Kind (D-WI), Jim Himes (D-CT), Judy Chu (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Patrick Murphy (D-FL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Tim Walz (D-MN), Mike Capuano (D-MA), and Richard Hanna (R-NY). Of the 105 stakeholder groups that endorsed the bill, representatives from Bend the Arc Jewish Action, Council on American Islamic Relations, Interfaith Alliance, National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepard, and the Friends Committee on National Legislation were also on hand to support the Freedom of Religion Act. Yasmine Taeb, the Legislative Representative for Human Rights & Civil Liberties at the Friends Committee on National Legislation, said “The Friends Committee on National Legislation is committed to religious freedom, which is a value deeply rooted in Quaker history. Quakers came to this country 365 years ago to escape persecution, and practice their faith openly. We all have a responsibility and an opportunity right now to protect the religious freedom of Muslims facing a new wave of persecution here in the United States – FCNL applauds this bipartisan effort to ensure that discriminatory measures, based solely on a person’s faith, have no place in legislation.” Rabbi Jason Kimelman-Block, Director at Bend the Arc Jewish Action, said “Policies that bar people from entering the United States because of their religion go against everything we stand for as American Jews. That’s why Bend the Arc Jewish Action is proud to support the Freedom of Religion Act -- to stand with the elected officials, faith leaders, and others across this country who are stepping up to denounce bigotry. Informed by our history and strengthened by our values, the Jewish community will continue opposing prejudice and hatred in all its forms.” Article 6, Clause 3 of the Constitution already bans religious litmus tests for political offices and the opening phrase of the Bill of Rights prohibits the establishment of a national religion and any limitations on the free exercise of religion. "We thank the sponsors of this bill, as it restores balance to our national conversations about both religion and immigration," said Nihad Awad, executive director of the Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR). "America must uphold its ideals of religious tolerance and welcoming the stranger, or else we face a diminishing role at the table of international leadership." Lawrence Couch, Director of the National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, said "Convinced of the importance of each individual, St. Mary Euphrasia, founder of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, claimed that each person was worth the whole world. We believe that no person should ever be denied entry to our country simply because of her or his religious beliefs." Rabbi Jack Moline, president of Interfaith Alliance, said “Freedom of religion means that there can be no religious test for citizenship in this great nation, no religious test for our compassion to those refugees in need. The Freedom of Religion Act is an important step toward guaranteeing that our immigration policies remain free from religious discrimination, which is why more than thirty religious organizations – including Catholic, Protestant, Jewish and Muslim communities – have called for its passage.” A religious based immigration or travel ban would hurt the United States and our relationships abroad. Such a proposal would deny entry to world leaders, tourists, relatives of Americans, and scientific, business, and political leaders attending meetings in the United States. The Freedom of Religion (FOR) Act is supported by the following organizations: Alliance for Peacebuilding American Center for Outreach American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) American Humanist Association American Muslim Advisory Council American Muslim Institution American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee Americans United for Separation of Church and State Amnesty International USA Anti-Defamation League Arab American Institute Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund (AALDEF) Asian Americans Advancing Justice | AAJC Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Los Angeles Asian Law Alliance Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty Bend the Arc Jewish Action Bread for the World Brooklyn For Peace California Council of Churches IMPACT Caring Across Generations Catholics in Alliance for the Common Good Center on Conscience & War Church World Service Clergy and Laity United for Economic Justice (CLUE) Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles Council on American-Islamic Relations CREDO Disciples Center for Public Witness Disciples Home Missions of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) Disciples Justice Action Network Equal Partners in Faith Emerge USA Franciscan Action Network Friends Committee on National Legislation Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society Human Rights First Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and Refugee Rights Institute for Policy Studies Interfaith Alliance International Center for Religion and Diplomacy Islamic Society of North America Islamic Relief Jewish Community Relations Council of Greater Washington J Street Just Foreign Policy Korean American Resource and Cultural Center Korean Resource Center Leadership Conference of Women Religious League of United Latin American Citizens Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service Lutheran Services in America Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition Mennonite Central Committee U.S. Washington Office Muslim American Society Muslim Community Network, MCN NYC Muslim Public Affairs Council NAFSA: Association of International Educators National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd National Asian Pacific American Bar Association National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum National Center for Lesbian Rights National Council of Asian Pacific Americans (NCAPA) National Council of Jewish Women National Employment Law Project National Immigration Forum National Immigration Law Center National Korean American Service and Education Consortium National Network for Arab American Communities National Religious Campaign Against Torture NETWORK, A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby OCA - Asian Pacific American Advocates Office of Social Justice; Christian Reformed Church OneAmerica Pax Christi USA Peace Action People for the American Way Presbyterian Church (USA) Progressive Congress Refugee and Immigration Ministries, Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) Secular Coalition for America Services, Immigrant Rights, and Education Network (SIREN) Shoulder to Shoulder Sikh American Legal Defense and Education Fund Sisters of Mercy South Asian Americans Leading Together Southeast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC) Southern Poverty Law Center Syrian American Council Syrian American Medical Society Syrian Emergency Task Force T'ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights Tacoma Community House The Center for APA Women The Interfaith Center of New York The United Methodist Church - General Board of Church and Society U.S. Committee for Refugees and Immigrants Union for Reform Judaism Unitarian Universalist Unitarian Universalist Association Unitarian Universalist Service Committee United Church of Christ, Justice and Witness Ministries United Methodist Church Cal-Pac Conference United for a Free Syria UURISE - Unitarian Universalist Refugee & Immigrant Services & Education We Belong Together Welcoming America
05.03.2016	Rep. Don Beyer issued the following statement today after investigators presented their findings on the 2015 smoke incident at L’Enfant Plaza Metro Station to the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) board. The investigator’s findings were critical of the coordinated emergency response. They also highlighted persistent safety deficiencies at the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) during the last three decades. “NTSB investigators outlined a perfect storm of failure, coupled with systemic deficiencies throughout the first response network,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “I strongly encourage Metro leadership to make whatever personnel changes are necessary to prioritize rider safety. We cannot jeopardize passenger lives." The NTSB investigators cited cascading safety failures within Metro leading to the incident, including damaged equipment, improper operation of ventilation fans, and an order from the Rail Operations Control Center to send a passenger train into the affected area. They also focused on a number of mistakes in the emergency response, including improper training, delayed reaction to the emergency call, and other breakdowns in communication. “The emergency response to the L’Enfant smoke incident was simply inadequate,” Beyer added. “There is plenty of blame to go around and every agency must swiftly implement the NTSB’s safety recommendations to avert future incidents. We owe it to the people of the National Capital Region, and the family of Carol Glover, to do whatever it takes to create a new, high standard of safety in Metrorail.” NTSB also found that the management and oversight of Metro safety remains insufficient under the Federal Transit Administration, and suggested that the Federal Railroad Administration assume future oversight of WMATA safety.
04.28.2016	Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx today announced three new federal appointees to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) Board of Directors, exercising his newly-granted authority under the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. Under the FAST Act, Virginia, Maryland, D.C., and the federal government may appoint four members each to the 16 member board. “Secretary Foxx’s appointments represent the federal government’s focus on passenger safety at Metro,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “I welcome these appointees, and they join the Board at an historically challenging time. Ensuring that WMATA prioritizes rider safety and reliability is critical to Metro’s future in the National Capital Region.” Secretary Foxx’s appointees will bring a wealth of experience in transportation safety to WMATA’s Board of Directors. Carol Carmody previously served on the National Transportation Safety Board, including two stints as acting Chair. David Strickland was previously Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and Robert Lauby is Chief Safety Officer for the Federal Railroad Administration. WMATA Board Member Anthony E. Costa, a Senior Advisor to the Administrator of the General Services Administration (GSA), will remain an Alternate Director.
04.25.2016	Congressmen Don Beyer (D-VA) and Frank Pallone (D-NJ) led 49 other Members of Congress in writing to thank President Obama for the Department of the Interior’s decision to remove the Atlantic Ocean from the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Program. The decision removes the Atlantic from any offshore drilling plans until 2022. “Offshore drilling poses tremendous risks to our coastal environment and economy. President Obama and Secretary Jewell know that it is not the key to our energy future,” said Rep. Beyer. “I applaud the Obama Administration for its willingness to listen to our constituents’ concerns to keep our coast ecologically sound.” “I appreciate the administration taking into account the voices of countless business owners, fishermen, and concerned residents in New Jersey,” said Rep. Pallone. “Drilling in the Atlantic Ocean is a risk-reward proposition: coastal communities face all of the risk so that Big Oil can reap all of the reward. We need to continue to reject efforts to drill along our coastline, and to transition to cleaner and more efficient energy sources along our cost. That’s why I introduced the Clean Ocean and Safe Tourism (COAST) Anti-Drilling Act, which prohibits the Department of the Interior from issuing any lease for the exploration, development, or production of oil or gas in the Atlantic.” Beyer and Pallone wrote Interior Secretary Sally Jewel in February 2015 and March 2016 urging her to block the drilling proposal, which would have jeopardized nearly 1.4 million coastal jobs and $95 billion in gross domestic product dependent on a clean, safe, and ecologically vibrant Atlantic Ocean. Separately, Beyer joined Virginia Reps. Gerry Connolly (D) and Bobby Scott (D) in a letter to Secretary Jewell in February of 2015 outlining the dangers from drilling off the Virginia coast. “Oceana applauds Reps. Beyer and Pallone for their leadership in protecting the Atlantic Ocean from offshore drilling,” said Claire Douglass, campaign director at Oceana. “President Obama and other elected officials are listening to the voices of the citizens from more than 110 East Coast municipalities that have publically opposed offshore drilling activities.” The long-term environmental consequences of drilling dwarf any economic gains from the offshore rigs. The full text of their letter follows: April 22, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We the undersigned Members of Congress write to thank you and the Department of the Interior (DOI) for removing the Atlantic Ocean lease sale from the 2017-2022 Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Proposed Program. On behalf of our constituents and all those opposed to offshore drilling in the Atlantic Ocean, we thank you for recognizing that offshore drilling along the East Coast is an unnecessary risk to our coastal economies and incompatible with important existing coastal activities, and we hope that the DOI will take the necessary steps to prevent any offshore drilling in these regions in the future. Nearly 1.4 million jobs and over $95 billion in gross domestic product are generated by healthy ocean ecosystems from tourism, fisheries, and coastal recreation. Additionally, Atlantic drilling could potentially impede ongoing military and space exploration activities along the coast. Your Administration listened to more than 110 East Coast municipalities, as well as to the concerns of more than 850 federal, state, and local elected officials and 1,100 business interests that have publically opposed offshore development. Our nation has seen the devastation that comes from offshore drilling. From the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster, to the chronic leaks happening on a daily basis from wells and infrastructure in the Gulf of Mexico, to failed infrastructure like that which caused the Santa Barbara disaster, oil spills do not respect state boundaries and pose grave risks to coastal communities and marine life. We appreciate the Administration’s willingness to listen to our constituents and protect the healthy oceans that are our economic drivers and crucial to our coastal ways of life. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Frank Pallone, Jr. Alan Lowenthal Gerald E. Connolly Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Ted Deutch Jim Langevin Eleanor Holmes Norton Katherine Clark Raúl M. Grijalva Corrine Brown Donald Norcross Donna F. Edwards Chris Van Hollen G. K. Butterfield Lois Frankel Sam Farr Alan Grayson Alcee L. Hastings Bonnie Watson Coleman Patrick E. Murphy John Carney Seth Moulton Paul D. Tonko Matt Cartwright Jared Huffman Kathy Castor Maxine Waters Barbara Lee Bill Pascrell, Jr. Mark Pocan Jan Schakowsky Mike Quigley Niki Tsongas Scott Peters Robert C. “Bobby” Scott James P. McGovern Lois Capps John Sarbanes C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Chaka Fattah David E. Price William R. Keating John Delaney Albio Sires John B. Larson Elijah E. Cummings Debbie Wasserman Schultz Alma S. Adams Earl Blumenauer Gwen Graham
04.22.2016	Congressman Don Beyer expressed his strong approval of the Paris Agreement, signed today as part of a celebration of Earth Day in a ceremony in New York City. “The Paris Agreement contains the kind of bold action needed to address climate change,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Climate change represents the most significant threat to future generations. Our commitment today is crucial to the safety and wellbeing of the planet.” Congressman Beyer signed a bicameral letter from Members of Congress expressing thanks to President Obama for his leadership on climate change, and supporting his decision to have the United States sign the document on Earth Day, the first day on which it is open for signatures.
04.15.2016	Congressional representatives from Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia wrote Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx to immediately endorse the National Park Service’s (NPS) FASTLANE Grant application, following news that the District of Columbia agreed to join as a local sponsor. The FASTLANE grant program requires federal land management agencies to apply jointly with a state. The lawmakers released the following joint statement today: “Arlington Memorial Bridge is an important symbol of our country and a critical part of our region’s transportation network. We were relieved that the National Park Service filed a timely application to fund its rehabilitation and greatly appreciate Mayor Bowser and the District government’s support in that effort. All the local jurisdictions in the region have a stake in ensuring that this project stays on track. The congressional delegation will continue to do its part to push the federal government to maintain its commitment to this iconic structure.” NPS devotes much of its $20 million DC area transportation budget for repairs to the aging Memorial Bridge. This continued funding allotment severely hinders its efforts to sustain other regional transportation and infrastructure projects. Over 68,000 vehicles cross the bridge between Washington, D.C. and Arlington, VA every day. Closing the Memorial Bridge would cost local governments a projected $168,000 per day ($75 million per year) by 2021 in transportation outlays alone, according to the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments. Transit studies suggest that traffic from the bridge would spill over onto other area bridges, particularly the 14th Street Bridge and Roosevelt Bridge. The impact on an already-strained transportation system could likely produce new, extreme levels of gridlock in the nation’s capital and its Northern Virginia suburbs. The FASTLANE program was established as part of the bipartisan transportation bill passed by Congress last year, which included grant funding specifically set aside for “nationally significant freight and highway projects” such as Memorial Bridge. The full text of the delegation’s letter follows: The Honorable Anthony Foxx U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave, SE Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to express our strong support for the National Park Service’s (NPS) Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) grant application for the Arlington Memorial Bridge Reconstruction Project. As you know, the bridge spans the Potomac River in Washington, D.C., connecting Northern Virginia with the District of Columbia. It is not only a national memorial, but a critical multimodal link in the national capital region’s transportation network. Arlington Memorial Bridge is structurally deficient and its poor condition has already begun to significantly constrain regional movement. In May of 2015, NPS suddenly closed portions of two lanes for emergency repairs. Without a major overhaul the bridge will be closed to all vehicle traffic by 2021. The Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments projects a full bridge closure would cost the region $75.4 million per year in traffic delays alone. Traffic diversions would also put even more strain on already crowded nearby bridges. The bridge carries 68,000 vehicles per day, which is one of the highest volumes for any one bridge administered by NPS. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) engineering evaluations have demonstrated the Arlington Memorial Bridge is the worst condition of all high-volume urban federally-owned bridges in the country. Given the bridge’s state of disrepair, historical significance, traffic volume, and overall size, it is the estimated that it is the most costly identified federally-owned bridge rehabilitation project across the country. Arlington Memorial Bridge is also entirely owned by the federal government, under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service. State governments have no legal obligation to provide financial support for maintenance of the bridge. Therefore, without significant federal investment, a project of this magnitude poses a nearly impossible challenge to NPS’s transportation budget. A weight limit, which disrupts freight flows in the region, has already been instituted for Arlington Memorial Bridge. Closing the bridge entirely would have a cascading effect on all modes of transportation within the region. Finally, it is important to note that the bridge serves as a designated emergency route which would support the evacuation of over one million people in the event of a threat to the seat of government. The Arlington Memorial Bridge Reconstruction Project would completely rehabilitate Arlington Memorial Bridge, protecting its memorial character while improving safety and preventing disruption to freight flows on other Potomac River crossings. The project supports the Department of Transportation’s emphasis on economic growth; transportation safety; and federal, state and local partnerships; and is an outstanding example of regional cooperation. It also reflects the calls for addressing infrastructure bottlenecks and improving safety in your department’s National Freight Strategic Plan. For these reasons, we enthusiastically support the NPS’s FASTLANE grant application for the Arlington Memorial Bridge Rehabilitation Project. If you have any questions please feel free to contact our offices. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Eleanor Holmes Norton 8th District, Virginia At-large, District of Columbia Senator Mark Warner Senator Tim Kaine Virginia Virginia Steny Hoyer Gerald E. Connolly 5th District, Maryland 11th District, Virginia Barbara Comstock Chris Van Hollen 10th District, Virginia 8th District, Maryland Donna F. Edwards John K. Delaney 4th District, Maryland 6th District, Maryland
04.12.2016	Citing constraints on the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) that prevent it from carrying out its mission to enforce gun safety laws, Congressman Don Beyer introduced the ATF Enforcement Act today. In addition to removing procedural blocks that prevent the ATF from protecting American families, the bill would also allow the ATF Director position to bypass the Senate confirmation process. “Very few people deny that gun violence is a serious problem,” said Rep. Beyer. “But too often when you look for solutions, the gun lobby and its allies in Congress insist that the laws on the books must be better enforced. That’s why I am introducing the ATF Enforcement Act, which will restore ATF’s ability to enforce existing gun laws by removing limitations on operations, enforcement, and day-to-day functions.” Since the ATF Director position was first made subject to Senate confirmation in 2006, lawmakers backed by the gun lobby have refused to confirm the nominees of both Democratic and Republican presidents. This vacuum at the very top severely hampers ATF’s ability to carry out its mission. “Gun violence kills over 30,000 people each year, yet gun-lobby-backed Congressmen and women took advantage of procedural tricks to handicap the ATF from enforcing our gun laws,” Beyer added. “It’s time Congress let the ATF do its job to keep Americans safe from guns.” The bill would also repeal legislative measures called “appropriations riders” which restrict the ATF from using gun trace data to crack down on bad apple dealers who have poor track records of selling guns used to commit crimes. In addition to removing restrictions on the use of gun trace data, the ATF Enforcement Act would repeal riders that currently limit recordkeeping, gun dealer oversight, agency functions, and firearms regulations.
04.12.2016	Congressman Don Beyer today marked Equal Pay Day, the point in the year when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid the previous year, by pointing to the effects of the wage gap, and the steps which Congress could take to address it. “Women deserve to earn exactly what men make for the same work, and not one cent less,” said Rep. Beyer. “On average women make only $0.79 for every dollar which men are paid, a disparity which remains even when you control for industry and education level. The gap is even worse for African-American and Hispanic women. This problem requires strong leadership in Congress to make equal pay a reality.” A new report released last week by the Democrats on the Joint Economic Committee, which Rep. Beyer sits on, projected that the wage gap is expected to persist until 2059 at its current rate of decrease. The gap costs women an average of $10,800 a year, which could add up to nearly half a million dollars during a career, according to the report. “Equal Pay Day fell two days earlier this year than it did in 2015,” added Beyer. “We are making progress, but not nearly fast enough. Empowering women in the workplace isn’t just the right thing to do, it will also lead to increased prosperity for all Americans. With good leadership we can make equal pay a reality and erase the wage gap.” Congressman Beyer hosted a Women’s Economic Conference in October of 2015 with guest speakers and breakout sessions to help women in the region succeed in the workplace. He cosponsored Rep. Rosa DeLauro’s Paycheck Fairness Act, co-led Rep. Carolyn Maloney’s Gender Diversity in Corporate Leadership Act, and sponsored two bills of his own to promote investment and recognition of women-led businesses.
04.06.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement after Secretary Tom Perez announced the Department of Labor’s new rule to protect low and middle income Americans planning for their retirement from conflicted financial advice: “I strongly support the Department of Labor’s final conflict of interest rule. Secretary Perez has done remarkable work to protect retirement savers and ensure that they get advice that is in their best interest. This is of particular import to the moderate and low income savers who have been most seriously impacted by conflicted advice. While the vast majority of financial advisors work honestly and hard on behalf of their clients, the costs to savers from the minority of advisors who do not adhere to the highest standards of the profession is real and significant. Americans can now seek retirement advice secure in the knowledge that their advisers must put their clients’ interests first. Secretary Perez and his staff have also worked tirelessly to make sure that all stakeholders were heard in the rulemaking process and that the final rule is both strong and workable. I will not support legislation to block the implementation of the rule.”
03.16.2016	Congressman Don Beyer hailed President Obama’s nomination of Merrick Garland to the United States Supreme Court. “Chief Judge Garland is a superb choice,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “He boasts unassailable credentials and I urge the Senate to move forward with consideration of this impressive nominee.” Garland is Chief Judge for the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, the court on which Chief Justice John Roberts and Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg previously served. He previously served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney with the Department of Justice, in which capacity he led the investigation of Timothy McVeigh following the Oklahoma City bombing.
03.15.2016	Congressman Don Beyer welcomed today’s announcement from the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell to protect Atlantic states, including Virginia, from offshore drilling. “One of the first things I did in Congress was join my fellow Virginia Congressmen Gerry Connolly and Bobby Scott in urging Secretary Jewel to block offshore drilling in Virginia,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “I am so glad that the Administration listened to our concerns and recognized the significant threat drilling poses to our coastline. This is a victory for Virginians, for our coastal economy, and a crucial step forward to reducing America’s carbon footprint.” Reps. Beyer, Connolly, and Scott wrote Secretary Jewell in February of 2015 outlining the dangers from further drilling off the Virginia coast. The long-term environmental consequences of drilling dwarf any economic gains from the offshore rigs. Additionally, such drilling activity would significantly disrupt NASA and U.S. Naval operations in the area. The outdoor economy in Virginia’s coastal communities is heavily dependent on tourism, fishing, outdoor recreation, and other industries compromised by the dangerous growth of offshore drilling in the Atlantic.
03.15.2016	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement after the announcement this afternoon that the Washington Metropolitan Area Metro Authority (WMATA) will suspend Metrorail service for 29 hours beginning at midnight tonight: Our office has been in contact with the Office of Personnel Management. We have urged them to allow unscheduled leave for federal employees, and I urge other employers in the region to be equally flexible, allowing employees to take unscheduled leave or to work from home if at all possible. I have confidence in the new leadership of Paul Wiedefeld and look forward learning more about the technical details behind this decision. We must overhaul this critical public transit system, and we must continue our federal investment in Metro in order for that to happen. Tomorrow we will get a glimpse of what our nation’s capital will look like without this essential system.
03.10.2016	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) voiced his support for the joint agreement announced today by President Barack Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to reduce methane emissions. The leaders announced today’s agreement in a ceremony at the White House to greet the Canadian Prime Minister, the first official visit by a Canadian head of state in two decades. “Today’s accord between two of the world’s largest economies takes important steps to combat climate change. I applaud President Obama and Prime Minister Trudeau for negotiating this agreement to reduce the United States’ and Canada’s methane emissions. Cutting our methane output is critical to ensuring a healthy world and to preserving the vitality of the precious Arctic our countries share,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “This sort of progress is necessary to achieve our commitments under the 2015 Paris Climate Summit. I support this plan and look forward to continuing to work with the Obama Administration to address the causes and consequences of climate change. It is a threat we cannot ignore.” Methane is a powerful contributor to the greenhouse effect, that is 25 times as strong as carbon dioxide. After leaking from oil wells and pipelines, the gas traps solar energy and helps increase the global temperature. President Obama and Prime Minister Trudeau also expressed their commitment to hasten the implementation of the Paris Climate Summit provisions.
03.03.2016	The National Park Service (NPS) today announced that Arlington Memorial Bridge will need to close by 2021 absent funding for a full rehabilitation. The bridge has been undergoing emergency repairs since last year. Northern Virginia Reps. Don Beyer, Gerry Connolly, and Barbara Comstock, along with Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine, reacted to the news with urgent calls to fund repairs, estimated to cost as much as $280 million. “Memorial Bridge was built to symbolize the coming together and reunification of a fractured nation following the Civil War. Today, unfortunately, it also symbolizes the neglect of our nation’s transportation system.” said Rep. Don Beyer. “The prospect of a shuttered Memorial Bridge is one we cannot live with. This challenge demands a solution and the regional delegation will work together to find it.” NPS devotes much of its $20 million DC area transportation budget for repairs to the aging Memorial Bridge. This continued funding allotment severely hinders its efforts to sustain other regional transportation and infrastructure projects. “To the tens of thousands of Virginians, DC residents and visitors who travel across the Potomac River every day, Arlington’s Memorial Bridge is a critical piece of our regional transportation system,” said Sen. Mark Warner. “The extended closure of this major commuter artery will be devastating to the economy and quality of life in the capital region. We will work together as a delegation to identify the necessary resources so the National Park Service can keep Memorial Bridge open.” “Arlington Memorial Bridge is a key transportation link for thousands of daily Northern Virginia commuters as well as visitors to our nation’s capital,” said Sen. Tim Kaine. “It speaks to the state of our nation’s infrastructure that replacing this ‎National Park Service-owned bridge would cost as much as the entire yearly budget for Park Service bridges across the country. My colleagues and I in the National Capital Region’s congressional delegation took steps in last year’s transportation bill to make it easier to fund major projects like this. It is critical that we take the next step toward a new bridge before we reach the point at which it becomes unsafe to use the current one." Over 68,000 vehicles cross the bridge between Washington, D.C. and Arlington, VA every day. Closing the Memorial Bridge would cost local governments a projected $168,000 per day ($75 million per year) by 2021 in transportation outlays alone according to the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments. Transit studies suggest that traffic from the bridge would spill over onto other area bridges, particularly the 14th Street Bridge and Roosevelt Bridge. The impact on an already-strained transportation system could likely produce new, extreme levels of gridlock in the nation’s capital and its Northern Virginia suburbs. "The potential closure of Memorial Bridge, a major commuter route for many Northern Virginians, will have a profound negative effect on all our regional roadways," said Rep. Gerry Connolly. "It is disheartening this announcement comes as we celebrate the National Park Centennial. I can think of no better way for Congress to celebrate the Park's 100th birthday than to redouble its efforts to invest in our Park system. This is a federally-owned bridge, and thus a federal responsibility that Congress must address.” “Arlington Memorial Bridge is a national treasure as well as a major thoroughfare for Northern Virginia commuters,” said Rep. Barbara Comstock. “It's used every day by 68,000 vehicles as well as people coming and going to our airports, local landmarks, and work. We must ensure proper funding for the bridge so that this critical piece of infrastructure remains safe and usable. The alternative would cause serious traffic problems for my constituents and the region and harm the local and national economy.”
03.02.2016	U.S. Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced legislation today that would require the federal government to measure the outdoor recreation industry’s impact on the U.S. economy. The Outdoor Recreation’s Economic Contributions (REC) Act would direct the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) to assess the outdoor industry’s contribution to job creation and consumer spending. “Outdoor recreation is a cornerstone of the American experience and vital contributor to the economy,” said Rep. Don Beyer, between section hikes on the Appalachian Trail. “Measuring the outdoor industry’s economic impact will help guide policymakers’ decisions to strengthen national recreational policies. This knowledge will ultimately benefit Americans’ physical, environmental, and economic health.” “With breathtaking natural treasures like Lake Chelan and Mt. Rainier, Washington State attracts outdoor enthusiasts from around the country and the world. Through hiring tour guides, buying outdoor apparel, and visiting many of our parks, outdoor enthusiasts generate significant revenue for the outdoor recreation economy, especially in Washington,” said Rep. Reichert. “The Outdoor REC Act will give this industry the clarity it needs to continue to expand, create jobs, and better serve those of us who cherish the outdoors.” While the BEA does not currently measure the outdoor industry’s economic effects, independent estimates suggest that the industry may generate more than $600 billion in revenue. “Vermont is a state of extraordinary natural beauty that provides multiple opportunities year-round for residents and tourists alike to enjoy the great outdoors. Outdoor recreation is a boost to the bottom lines of small businesses across Vermont and a key driver of our economy,” Rep. Peter Welch said. “The ability to quantify these benefits is essential so we can better support this vital sector of our economy.” “Here in the Northwest, spending time outdoors in nature is a way of life. For many, it’s a big part of the reason we choose to live here, and it also is an economic driver,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers said. “In the west, there are 640 million acres of federal land. This land belongs to the people, and I believe it should be open to many types of activities — providing enjoyment and economic opportunity for local communities.” Nearly half of the U.S. population participates in outdoor recreation endeavors every year, contributing to an estimated 6.1 million American jobs and $80 billion in local, state, and federal taxes. "Outdoor Industry Association (OIA) and the thousands of manufacturers, retailers and service providers in the outdoor recreation industry, know about the hundreds of millions of dollars our industry contributes to the U.S. economy and the millions of jobs our businesses support," said OIA Executive Director Amy Roberts. "We are encouraged that members of Congress are beginning to understand as well. We are grateful for the leadership of Congressman Beyer, Congressman Reichert, Congressman Welch, and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers celebrate today's introduction of the Recreation’s Economic Contributions (REC) Act in the House. With a bill in both the House and the Senate we have taken a big step forward in making sure that the federal government quantifies the economic importance of our industry and uses that data to inform the decisions that affect our businesses and the 142 million Americans who recreate outside each year.” “Outdoor recreation creates jobs and economic opportunity in every state and in every corner of the country. From product innovation and retail to travel and tourism, it’s estimated the outdoor sector supports over 6 million jobs and almost $650 billion in GDP,” said Eric Artz, REI’s chief operating officer. “That's bigger than either the domestic pharmaceutical or automotive industries. What's more, outdoor businesses promote healthy lifestyles. We need the U.S. government to track these contributions and appreciate the bipartisan leaders of the REC Act who are committed to recognizing outdoor recreation as a strong piece of our economy.” “Orvis is really excited to see the efforts around quantifying the economic benefit of outdoor recreation,” said Orvis’ Steve Hemkens, VP of Rod and Tackle and Orvis Adventures. “Given the fact that healthy ecosystems and access to our public lands are critical elements to our business success, we also firmly believe in creating stewards and advocates for healthy fish and wildlife habitats, access to our public lands, for a vision of commerce that is sustainable and will provide opportunities for future generations of outdoor enthusiasts and entrepreneurs.”
02.26.2016	The House of Representatives today rejected Rep. Beyer’s gun safety amendment to the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act of 2015 (SHARE Act). On a mostly party-line vote, the House declined to restrict dangerous individuals from using target ranges on public land. “The House made a dangerous decision today to allow convicted felons unfettered access to public target ranges, without any safety protections,” said Rep. Beyer. “My amendment would simply have prohibited people already barred from owning guns from renting or borrowing them to improve their shooting abilities on public lands.” The Beyer Amendment would have required shooting facilities that receive federal assistance to have a policy or notice in place stating that no person who is prohibited by federal law from possessing a firearm is allowed to use the shooting range. Rep. Beyer strongly supports expanding background checks; however, his amendment today would not have required shooting ranges to conduct background checks. Two other amendments Rep. Beyer offered to prohibit the use of fully automatic weapons, flame throwers, explosives, and incendiary or armor piercing bullets at these ranges, and restrict access to individuals on the ‘no-fly list’ were rejected on a party line vote in the House Rules Committee this week. “Flame throwers, grenades, and armor-piercing bullets have no place on public land,” Beyer said. “Nor should we allow anyone on the no-fly list to shoot on public land. That these questions even require debate is a sad indictment of our out-of-control gun culture.”
02.11.2016	Representative Don Beyer introduced the STAPLER Act today to Save Teachers of Adults from Paying out of their Livelihood for Education Resources. Beyer’s legislation would allow certain qualifying program instructors a $500 credit for education resource expenses such as paper, writing materials, printing, and books. Current law disallows continuing and adult education teachers from claiming tax deductions for classroom supplies, even though such deductions are allowed for K-12 teachers. “Our new, global economy and highly mobile, tech-savvy workforce requires education not limited to the K-12 spectrum,” said Rep. Beyer. “Basic and continuing education courses are indispensable to acquiring the tools needed in the 21st century economy. Covering the cost of basic classroom supplies for these teachers is common sense.” Ms. Margaret Peterson, a local English for Speakers of Other Languages teacher, initially brought this gap in existing law to Rep. Beyer’s attention in a constituent letter. “I was disappointed to find out that educational teaching deductions for classroom supplies are limited to K-12. When I was a full-time teacher, that deduction was very helpful. Now that I teach ESOL to adults, part-time, I am still paying out of pocket, but I can't get a tax deduction," Margaret Peterson said. “‎Rep. Beyer’s bill will go a long way to recognizing that there are many teachers working outside the K-12 school system, and this will help them with the out of pocket money they spend on books, printers, ink, and paper for their students.” Many teachers voluntarily use their own money to support their classroom work. Research shows that teachers will spend more of their own funds each year to supply their classrooms and purchase essential items such as pencils. And this is not just limited to K-12 teachers, but principals, aides, and adult educators. “Despite serving a critical need, adult education programs are typically under-funded, with the majority of states reporting waiting lists for enrollment in publicly-funded programs. This is especially true for adult ESL classes. The STAPLER Act is a step in the right direction, and provides an important benefit to help support teachers working in adult ESL instruction,” said Rosa Aronson, Executive Director of the TESOL International Association. Joe McClary, CEO of the International Association of Continuing Education and Training (IACET), a non-profit organization supporting the bill said, “The bill makes sense because it allows a benefit for adult educators who make a personal out-of-pocket commitment to excellence. We need to encourage investment in quality adult education and this is certainly a good way to do it.” “It is imperative that we provide support for these adult educators, who are serving such a critical function for this country,” said Margaret Eggleston, President of the American Association for Adult and Continuing Education. “In today’s global and highly digitized economy we must support these educators, who are often utilizing their own personal technology and incurring the costs associated with this, as well. In order to remain relevant and competitive, we must nurture our educators' ability to interact with students on various platforms. This bill supports adult educators in their vision of helping adults acquire the knowledge, skills and values needed to lead productive and satisfying lives.”
02.11.2016	Today Congressman Don Beyer offered two amendments in the Science, Space, and Technology Committee that would have compelled the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to study the impact of military helicopter noise on the National Capital Region and to evaluate FAA-operated flight paths over the region. Beyer introduced the amendments for inclusion on H.R. 4489, the “FAA Leadership in Groundbreaking High Tech Research and Development Act,” otherwise known as the Flight R&D Act. In a highly unusual break with protocol, the Committee’s Chairman refused to consider the amendments, as well as amendments offered by other Democrats. “I looked forward to a substantive markup today and to offering two important amendments to address the effects of noise from airplanes and helicopters, which is troublesome to many of my constituents,” said Rep. Beyer. “For reasons that had nothing to do with the problem of aircraft noise, the markup fell victim to parliamentary disagreements between the Majority and the Minority.” “While Northern Virginians are realistic about the noise airplanes and helicopters generate, they support any improvement tighter compliance with noise abatement procedures may provide. I will continue to work toward this goal,” Beyer added. For more information on the markup, you can see the statement of the House Science Committee’s Ranking Member here.
02.10.2016	Representative Don Beyer released the following statement today in reaction to Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe’s proposal to add one eastbound lane to I-66 between the Beltway and Glebe Road: share: f t February 10, 2016 (Northern Virginia) – Representative Don Beyer released the following statement today in reaction to Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe’s proposal to add one eastbound lane to I-66 between the Beltway and Glebe Road: "Arlington County had a longstanding agreement that I-66 would not be widened inside the Beltway. Today’s announcement by Governor McAuliffe changes that understanding, and with no public input so far. "My initial reaction is one of concern for northern Virginians who have worked – many of them for decades -- for an alternative approach to big highways. But I continue to learn details of the proposal and to listen to constituents on all sides of this issue. "Early conversations with elected officials who represent Arlington County indicate that Arlington is more open to this partial I-66 widening than in the past, and that the potential benefits from I-66 tolls will bring important transit and multi-modal benefits to the surrounding corridor. I remain dubious about additional asphalt, and await input from my Arlington and other constituents about today’s proposal."
02.05.2016	Yesterday the Chairman of the House Budget Committee introduced the “Federal Employee Rights Act,” which, contrary to its title, would prohibit federal agencies from deducting voluntary union dues from their employees’ paychecks. Representative Don Beyer expressed vehement opposition to the bill, which he characterized as an unfair assault on federal employee labor unions. share: f t Yesterday the Chairman of the House Budget Committee introduced the “Federal Employee Rights Act,” which, contrary to its title, would prohibit federal agencies from deducting voluntary union dues from their employees’ paychecks. Representative Don Beyer expressed vehement opposition to the bill, which he characterized as an unfair assault on federal employee labor unions. “Federal employees are not required to join unions and their membership dues are completely voluntary. Such deductions are allowed purely for the convenience of the federal workforce,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “This bill is another attack on civil servants who protect and serve our country every day, and a continuation of efforts to undermine the rights of workers for political gain. Federal employee unions are powerful tools to advocate for, protect, and represent federal workers. In an age ripe with furloughs, pay freezes, shutdown scares, and sequester cuts, we should not weaken the collective bargaining rights of the workers that keep our country running.” The proposed legislation would prevent federal employees from exercising their voluntary collective bargaining right and prohibit a wide range of common sense activities, including representation in personnel actions, pay advocacy, and issues related to policy and benefits. Federal employee unions exist at no cost to the taxpayer and provide crucial representation in order for workers to feel safe from retaliation when they report waste, fraud, and abuse.
02.04.2016	This week Civil Rights champion Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) became the 125th cosponsor to anti-Islamophobia legislation authored by Congressmen Don Beyer (D-VA) and Mike Honda (D-CA). The bill, House Resolution 569, which condemns violence and hateful rhetoric against Muslims in the United States, now has 127 cosponsors in the House of Representatives. Congressmen Beyer and Honda enthusiastically welcomed Congressman Lewis’ support. share: f t This week Civil Rights champion Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) became the 125th cosponsor to anti-Islamophobia legislation authored by Congressmen Don Beyer (D-VA) and Mike Honda (D-CA). The bill, House Resolution 569, which condemns violence and hateful rhetoric against Muslims in the United States, now has 127 cosponsors in the House of Representatives. Congressmen Beyer and Honda enthusiastically welcomed Congressman Lewis’ support. “From the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee to the Freedom Riders, from the March on Washington to the March from Selma and down through the years since, John Lewis has spent his life standing up against oppression and bigotry. I am thrilled that he is joining us in this fight,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Representative Lewis knows perhaps better than anyone how dehumanizing people on the basis of race or religion leads to destructive violence. The weight of his experience cannot be ignored, and the thunder of his voice will send an inescapable message that attacks on American Muslims are not what we stand for as a nation.” “It is so strange to me that we have learned to fly in the air like birds, swim in the ocean like fish, and even shoot a rocket to the moon, but we still have not learned how to live together as brothers and sisters on this little planet we call our home,” said Rep. John Lewis. “The truth is that we are all immigrants, as Pope Francis said when he addressed a joint session of Congress. We all came from somewhere, and the promise of this nation is an affirmation of the union of all mankind, regardless of race, religion, nationality or class. The dean of the Civil Rights Movement, A. Philip Randolph used to put it this way, ‘We all may have come here on different ships, but we’re all in the same boat now.” Hate is not the answer to any problem, but instead is the very root of most of our difficulties as a human community. The day we accept that love is the ultimate resolution to all the struggles of humanity will be the dawn of our liberation as a nation and as a world community.” The Representatives also expressed pride in President Obama’s decision to visit a mosque in Baltimore the previous day to express solidarity with Muslim Americans. The President’s trip to the Islamic Society of Baltimore represents the first time he has visited a mosque during his presidency, and follows Obama’s speech to the Israeli Embassy warning of the rise of anti-Semitism in the world in the first address to that Embassy by a sitting President. Reps. Beyer and Honda, with original co-sponsors Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and André Carson (D-IN) introduced H. Res. 569 in December after a wave of anti-Muslim bigotry and acts of hatred in the United States. Many of these attacks are under current investigation by the FBI.
01.20.2016	2015 was the hottest year in recorded history, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Both agencies confirmed today that the global average temperature recorded in 2015 was 1.62 degrees Fahrenheit over the 20th century average and surpassed last year’s record by .29 degrees Fahrenheit, breaking the annual global temperature record by the largest margin in the 136-year scientific record. share: f t 2015 was the hottest year in recorded history, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Both agencies confirmed today that the global average temperature recorded in 2015 was 1.62 degrees Fahrenheit over the 20th century average and surpassed last year’s record by .29 degrees Fahrenheit, breaking the annual global temperature record by the largest margin in the 136-year scientific record. “Climate change is the greatest existential threat facing the world right now,” said U.S. Representative Don Beyer. “Regardless of how much time we spend debating or how many hearings we hold, temperatures will continue to rise at a catastrophic rate until we address this problem. The COP21 agreement reached in Paris last month will help, but it is not enough. Congress must take action to stop the harmful consequences of climate change.” “Temperature spikes like this lead to life-threatening extreme weather events, droughts, wildfires, rising sea levels, and ice melt,” Beyer added. “Climate change is already having disastrous effects on American farmers, coastal cities, and public health. Scientists tell us plainly that we do not have time to delay: we must act now before the damage is irreversible.”
01.08.2016	Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA) and Mike Honda (D-CA) welcomed the 100th co-sponsor to support their legislation, H. Res. 569, condemning violence and bigotry towards Muslim-Americans. share: f t Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA) and Mike Honda (D-CA) welcomed the 100th co-sponsor to support their legislation, H. Res. 569, condemning violence and bigotry towards Muslim-Americans. “This is a critical benchmark to show our colleagues and the American people that we do not stand for religious bigotry,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Hateful words and actions directed at Muslim-Americans run contrary to our values as a fair, just, and inclusive society.” “I am pleased to learn that we have gathered our 100th co-sponsor for this resolution and I am grateful for all of the support,” said Rep. Mike Honda. “Every day, Muslim American students, leaders and community members are threatened with violence—and some have been the victims of hate crimes. We must do everything we can to fight terrorism on all fronts, but we must take care not to give into bigotry, hate speech or tolerate hate crimes. Hateful rhetoric has real consequences. Our country is better than this; we are a multiethnic, multi-religious, multicultural nation. It is the responsibility of all to reject discrimination." Reps. Beyer and Honda, with original co-sponsors Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and André Carson (D-IN) introduced H. Res. 569 in December in response to weeks of anti-Muslim bigotry and acts of hatred in the United States. "The steps taken in this bill are vital to our efforts to ensure the safety and security of all Americans, regardless of faith or culture,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur. “Reaching this milestone of support shows that communities all over America are raising their voices in the name of religious liberty, one of our most sacred and fundamental principles. Representative Beyer deserves our humble gratitude for his leadership in this important effort. I look forward to continuing to work with him to ensure this legislation is adopted.” “As we reach 100 cosponsors of our resolution condemning anti-Muslim bigotry, I appreciate that our Republican leaders, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), also have stepped forward to condemn anti-Muslim rhetoric,” Congresswoman Norton said. “Their leadership should signal that it is time this resolution became bipartisan, and I urge our Republican colleagues to join us as cosponsors.” "The despicable rhetoric and violence on American Muslims is reprehensible and goes against everything this country stands for. Each and every one of us has a duty as an American to speak out against discrimination and intolerance," said Rep. Joe Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. "This milestone demonstrates just how much support there is for sending a powerful message that the Congress stands behind our Muslim American communities and firmly against hate and intolerance." “I am proud to stand with Rep. Don Beyer and 98 of our colleagues in solidarity with our fellow citizens who are Muslim American. We have a duty as elected officials to foster respect, civility and dignity and to condemn hateful anti-Muslim rhetoric” said Rep. Betty McCollum. “The wide support for this resolution should tell people one thing: hatred and bigotry are not American values,” said Rep. Keith Ellison. “Tolerance and inclusion are what make our country great, not division and scapegoating. I look forward to this resolution gaining even more support, and I hope our friends across the aisle will recognize the importance of condemning hate speech and stand up for American values as well.” “I am proud that so many of my colleagues have joined together to help bring more attention to the harmful and ignorant acts that have been directed at Muslim Americans for far too long,” said Rep. André Carson. “Discrimination in any form should never be tolerated anywhere in our country. This holds true whether the victim of such intolerance is gay or straight, black or white, Christian, Muslim, Jewish, or the member of any group.”
01.05.2016	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) released the following statement in support of President Obama’s executive action to help prevent gun violence in America. “The President’s actions today will help to strengthen the current background check system, and ensure more people undergo those checks before buying a firearm,” said Rep. Beyer. “These actions are long overdue and will help to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people. I applaud the President and Attorney General.” “Given the inherent limits of executive action, the steps announced today are meaningful but modest. The burden remains on Congress and Speaker Paul Ryan to pass a comprehensive solution to curb the epidemic of gun violence that plagues our nation,” said Rep. Beyer. “Expanding background check requirements to include all gun sales, restricting weapons that are manufactured solely to inflict mass casualties, and ensuring guns don't remain in the hands of those who are suffering from mental health issues, are just some of the proposals that Congress should implement today.” The executive actions announced by the President today will make significant progress in the ongoing struggle to curb gun violence: · Toughening background checks nationwide: The President’s executive actions provide new guidance on existing federal laws, clarifying that any individual in the business of selling firearms must obtain a license through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and therefore conduct background checks on prospective gun purchasers. These actions also include new measures and resources to make the background check system more efficient and effective. · Protecting communities with bolstered enforcement: The executive actions take new steps to promote smart and effective enforcement of our gun laws – including a proposed increase in funding for more ATF agents, greater resources for tracking illegal online firearms trafficking and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts. · Improving mental health services: The President is proposing increased investment to expand access to mental health care. Further, the executive actions remove barriers that prevent the reporting of relevant mental health information to the background check system. · Driving new research into gun safety: The executive actions direct the Departments of Defense, Justice and Homeland Security to conduct or sponsor research into new technology to make firearms safer. The President’s executive actions come after the Republican Congress has repeatedly refused to allow votes on commonsense, bipartisan gun violence prevention legislation – including acting on seven separate occasions to block a vote on a Republican Congressman’s legislation to close the outrageous terror gun loophole that allows suspected terrorists to buy deadly weapons across America. In March 2015, a bipartisan coalition of U.S. House Members introduced H.R. 1217, the King-Thompson bill to strengthen background checks nationwide. The legislation, authored by Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) and Rep. Peter King (R-NY), expands the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet or in classified ads while providing reasonable exceptions for family and friend transfers. Under the legislation, the current background check system would be expanded to require comprehensive, enforceable and life-saving background checks on all commercial gun sales. Studies show that every day where background checks are used, the system stops more than 170 felons, some 50 domestic abusers, and nearly 20 fugitives from buying a gun. However, no system is in place to prevent these same prohibited purchasers from buying identical guns at a gun show, over the internet, or through a newspaper ad with no questions asked – because background checks are not required for these kinds of sales. The King-Thompson bill closes these outrageous, dangerous loopholes.
12.18.2015	There is finally some good news for federal employees in the omnibus spending bill passed by Congress this morning. The $1.1 trillion spending package included a pay raise for federal employees and our service members, as well as significant additional funding for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), some of which is earmarked for cybersecurity. share: f t There is finally some good news for federal employees in the omnibus spending bill passed by Congress this morning. The $1.1 trillion spending package included a pay raise for federal employees and service members, as well as significant additional funding for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), some of which is earmarked for cybersecurity. “Federal employees suffered through enough with years of wage stagnation, furloughs and shutdowns, and, perhaps most egregiously, the theft of their personal information as a result of the OPM hacks,” said Rep. Beyer. “In addition to cybersecurity investments to prevent future breaches, this deal gives our federal workforce a modest 1.3 percent pay raise for the second year in a row.” “These efforts will help improve the recruitment and retention of federal employees to help our government grow the new American economy,” Beyer added. The agreement provides $272 million for OPM and the OPM Inspector General, a $132 million increase over the previous year. The legislation also provides $21 million for critical upgrades to OPM’s cybersecurity infrastructure and to ensure protections to prevent similar security breaches are installed. Individuals affected by the OPM data breaches will be provided with identity protection coverage for 10 years -- much more than the previous commitment -- and identity theft insurance in the amount of $5,000,000.
12.17.2015	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) released the following statement on his vote in opposition to the Tax Increase Prevention and Real Estate Investment Act: I voted against the tax extenders package because it was yet another unfunded tax cut. There are a number of provisions in the bill which I support, including the expanded Earned Income and Child Tax Credits (EITC, CTC), the Research and Development Tax Credit, and commuter benefits so important to federal workers in Northern Virginia. However, continuing to reduce our tax base without acknowledging the costs of doing so is simply unsustainable. As we have seen in recent decades, tax cuts which are not paid for ultimately lead to sharp cuts in government programs that are so important to my constituents in Northern Virginia. The erosion of the tax base, all the while insisting that economic growth will magically fix federal balance sheets, is the cornerstone of the Republican strategy to ‘starve the beast.’ This will make it harder for us to build the government that Americans want and deserve. I cannot be a party to it.
12.17.2015	Following weeks of anti-Muslim bigotry and acts of hatred, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Mike Honda (D-CA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and André Carson (D-IN), along with 63 original cosponsors, introduced legislation condemning violence, bigotry, and hateful rhetoric towards Muslim-Americans. share: f t Following weeks of anti-Muslim bigotry and acts of hatred, Reps. Don Beyer (D-VA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Mike Honda (D-CA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and André Carson (D-IN), along with 63 original cosponsors, introduced legislation condemning violence, bigotry, and hateful rhetoric towards Muslim-Americans. “We must show that we will not tolerate this anti-Muslim discrimination and that those who propagate it do not represent the melting-pot America that we celebrate,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “These harmful words eventually lead to the very acts of violence many came to our country to escape in the first place. It’s time Congress stood up to condemn these attacks which run contrary to American values.” “America’s highest ideals include our protections for religious liberty and the celebration of our differences. It is a mistake to lump millions of peaceful, liberty-loving Muslim Americans together with the brutal zealots who are working continuously to hijack their faith,” said Rep. Marcy Kaptur. “Anti-Muslim speeches and statements only serve to divide us and pit Americans against one another. Bigotry and the violence it perpetrates are not worthy of the legacy of generations who have fought and sacrificed to make America the nation that it is today.” “As we see many Americans expressing their fears, their leaders at every level have a special obligation to lead,” Congresswoman Norton said. “The concerns of the American people about terrorism in civil society after Paris and San Bernardino are understandable, but embracing Islamophobia as a way to cope with those fears is not only unacceptable, but dangerous. The main purpose of terrorism is to provoke division. Terrorists lose when, instead, we embrace our Muslim brothers and sisters.” "The despicable rhetoric and violence on American Muslims is reprehensible and goes against everything this country stands for. Whether it’s a bomb threat on a mosque, a child bullied on a bus, or a slur painted on a building, hate is hate. And, each and every one of us has a duty as an American to speak out against discrimination and intolerance," said Rep. Joe Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. "I'm proud to join Congressman Beyer and my colleagues in introducing this resolution that sends a powerful message that the Congress stands behind our Muslim American communities and firmly against hate and intolerance." “Muslim Americans are our friends, neighbors and colleagues. Anti-Muslim rhetoric from our nation’s political candidates has damaging consequences for the lives of Muslim Americans,” said Rep. Betty McCollum. “As elected officials, we must work to foster respect, civility and dignity towards all Americans and ensure that no citizen of our nation is persecuted or targeted because of their religious beliefs.” “We must do everything we can to fight terrorism on all fronts, but we must take care not to give into bigotry, hate speech or tolerate hate crimes. Hateful rhetoric has real consequences. Every day, Muslim students, leaders and community members are threatened with violence—and some have been the victims of hate crimes,” said Rep. Mike Honda. “Our country is better than this; we are a multiethnic, multi-religious, multicultural nation. Our diversity is what gives us strength—together with our respect for the Constitution, rule of law and the ideals of freedom that unites us. It is the responsibility of all to reject discrimination. I urge my colleagues in the House to support this resolution.” “The United States was built by the belief in liberty, freedom, and equality for every person. These are the values we hold most dear – the truths we hold to be self-evident. When elected officials and political leaders build their platforms on hatred and bigotry, they do so at our country’s expense,” said Rep. Keith Ellison. “Their rhetoric is not merely ignorant – it’s dangerous. And it is fundamentally un-American. Scapegoating a religious community shouldn’t be part of a candidate’s stump speech. Not in this country. This bill is a reminder to Americans of all faiths: the demagogues do not speak for everyone. That is not who we are.” “The First Amendment safeguards our freedom to practice our faiths freely, but it does not give any person the right to cite religion in order to justify intolerance toward their fellow Americans,” said Rep. André Carson. “This holds true whether the victim of such intolerance is gay or straight, black or white, Christian, Muslim, Jewish, or the member of any group. Discrimination in any form is never acceptable anywhere in our country, which is why I am proud to help introduce this resolution which will help bring more attention to the harmful and ignorant acts that have been directed at Muslim Americans for far too long.” The text of the House Resolution denouncing hate speech and hate crimes against Muslim-Americans follows: Condemning violence, bigotry, and hateful rhetoric towards Muslims in the United States. Whereas the victims of anti-Muslim hate crimes and rhetoric have faced physical, verbal, and emotional abuse because they were Muslim or believed to be Muslim; Whereas the constitutional right to freedom of religious practice is a cherished American value and violence or hate speech towards any American community based on their faith is in contravention of our founding principles; Whereas there are millions of Muslims in the United States, a community made up of many diverse beliefs and cultures, and both immigrants and native-born Americans; Whereas this Muslim community is recognized as having made innumerable contributions to the cultural and economic fabric and well-being of American society; Whereas hateful and intolerant acts against Muslims are contrary to the American values of acceptance, welcoming, and fellowship with those of all faiths, beliefs, and cultures; Whereas these acts affect not only the individual victims but also their families, communities, and the entire group whose faith or beliefs were the motivation for the act; Whereas Muslim women who wear hijabs, headscarves, or other religious articles of clothing have been disproportionately targeted because of their religious clothing, articles, or observances; Whereas the rise of hateful and anti-Muslim speech, violence, and cultural ignorance plays into the false narrative spread by terrorist groups of Western hatred of Islam, and can encourage certain individuals to react in extreme and violent ways; Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) Expresses its condolences for the victims of anti-Muslim hate crimes; (2) Steadfastly confirms its dedication to the rights and dignity of all its citizens of all faiths, beliefs, and cultures; (3) Denounces in the strongest terms the increase of intimidation, violence, vandalism, arson, and other hate crimes targeted against mosques, Muslims or those perceived to be Muslim; (4) Recognizes that the Muslim community in the United States has made countless positive contributions to our society; (5) Declares that the civil rights and civil liberties of all United States citizens, including Muslims in the United States, should be protected and preserved; (6) Urges local and Federal law enforcement authorities to work to prevent hate crimes; and to prosecute to the fullest extent of the law those perpetrators of hate crimes; and (7) Reaffirms the inalienable right of every citizen to live without fear and intimidation, and to practice their freedom of faith.
12.16.2015	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) joined Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI) and dozens of Democratic co-sponsors today to introduce the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015, which would renew the federal ban on military-style weapons and high-capacity magazines. President Bill Clinton signed the original ban into law, but Congress allowed it to expire in 2004 under the Bush Administration. share: f t Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) joined Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI) and dozens of Democratic co-sponsors today to introduce the Assault Weapons Ban of 2015, which would renew the federal ban on military-style weapons and high-capacity magazines. President Bill Clinton signed the original ban into law, but Congress allowed it to expire in 2004 under the Bush Administration. “Assault weapons are extremely dangerous in the wrong hands and have no place in civilian life,” said Rep. Beyer. “These types of military-grade weapons were designed to inflict mass casualties and belong in the hands of our military and law enforcement, not untrained civilians.” “In recent years, the frequency of mass shooting has increased by a factor of four. And more than half of all mass shooters who killed four or more people used an assault weapon. That’s because the sole purpose of an assault weapon is to kill as many people as quickly as possible,” said Rep. Cicilline. “It is absurd that we continue to allow military-style weapons to be bought and sold while mass shootings grow more common. This bill is an important first step that will restore some sanity to the way we treat guns in the United States.” The bill would prohibit the sale, transfer, manufacturing, and importation of semiautomatic weapons and high-capacity ammunition feeding devices. It would also improve upon the current background check procedure by effectively closing the so-called “Charleston loophole” and requiring law enforcement notification anytime a background check is denied. Assault weapons were used in attacks last month in San Bernardino and Colorado Springs. Shooters also used them to commit mass murder at Sandy Hook Elementary School, a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado, and a community college in Roseburg, Oregon.
12.10.2015	With the clock ticking on the federal government’s fiscal calendar, Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Rob Wittman (R-VA) are preparing legislation to protect federal employees from a government shutdown. The Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act would guarantee back pay for all furloughed workers in the event of a shutdown. share: f t With the clock ticking on the federal government’s fiscal calendar, Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Rob Wittman (R-VA) are preparing legislation to protect federal employees from a government shutdown. The Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act would guarantee back pay for all furloughed workers in the event of a shutdown. “For the third time this year, Congressional dysfunction threatens the livelihood of federal workers carrying out our country’s vital missions,” said Rep. Beyer. “It’s inexcusable to play politics with their pay and their family’s well-being. I hope my House colleagues recognize the hardship these funding battles cause hard-working American families.” Federal employee pay is suspended in the event of a funding lapse or government shutdown. Retroactive pay for all “essential” and “non-essential” federal workers must be approved by Congress. “There has to be consistency and certainty in government funding for our federal employees to effectively carry out the important work that they do every day to make the U.S. a better, safer place,” Rep. Wittman said. “This culture of stagnation that plagues the budget process in Washington and makes the well-being of federal employees contingent on unrelated policy measures has to end. I’ve said before, and I will say again that this recurring cycle of governing by crisis has to give way to long-term vision and resolve.” Congressman Beyer’s 8th District and Congressman Wittman’s 1st District are home to approximately 120,000 federal employees combined.
12.04.2015	December 4, 2015 (Washington, DC) – President Barack Obama signed legislation into law today introduced by Representative Don Beyer (D-VA) and Representative Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) to give local governments regulation authority of towing companies share: f t President Barack Obama signed legislation into law today introduced by Representative Don Beyer (D-VA) and Representative Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) to give local governments regulation authority of towing companies. The language was included as an amendment to the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act passed in the Senate last night. “Northern Virginians are well aware of the financial pain and frustration a few predatory towing operators can cause,” said Congressman Beyer. “Now that our bill is law, local governments have new tools at their disposal to curb these practices and protect vulnerable consumers.” “Passage of this law is a victory for communities in Maryland and across the country that have struggled to control the outrageous, predatory tactics used by some towing companies,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “Local jurisdictions will now have the unambiguous authority to end egregious fees, ban the practice of ‘spotting’, mandate proper signage, and strike the proper balance based on the needs of their consumers and businesses. I’m proud to have worked with Congressman Beyer to get this bill to the President’s desk.” In 1994, Congress inadvertently preempted the ability of state and local governments to regulate the towing industry. Since then, confusing restrictions and conflicting court rulings left local governments unable to fully protect consumers from predatory towing practices. Earlier this year, Congressmen Beyer and Van Hollen introduced the State and Local Predatory Towing Enforcement Act to restore full authority for regulating non-consensual tows. The bill was unanimously passed as an amendment to the House version of the Highway reauthorization President Obama will sign into law today. ###
12.02.2015	Nearly two weeks after a local Northern Virginia Mosque, Dar Al-Hijrah, was attacked with Molotov cocktails and a hoax bomb, Congressmen Don Beyer (D-VA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Joe Crowley (D-NY) wrote their House colleagues urging them to visit the Falls Church mosque to participate in Friday prayers this week. share: f t Nearly two weeks after a local Northern Virginia Mosque, Dar Al-Hijrah, was attacked with Molotov cocktails and a hoax bomb, Congressmen Don Beyer (D-VA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Joe Crowley (D-NY) wrote their House colleagues urging them to visit the Falls Church mosque to participate in Friday prayers this week. “Intolerance and hatred have no place in American society,” said Rep. Beyer. “We are a diverse nation of immigrants whose shared cultural heritage is one of openness and inclusion. We must celebrate this diverse thread of our cultural cloth, not tear it apart.” Imam Johari Abdul-Malik, Outreach Director for the Dar Al-Hijrah Islamic Center, said, “Many in our community feel under siege in recent weeks. Women taking their children to school have been heckled by passersby, and we experienced two incidences of hate violence. It is with the support of good neighbors like Congressmen Beyer, Ellison, and Crowley that we carry on knowing that our future will be brighter." Their visits comes on the heels of numerous reports over the past few weeks of anti-Muslim acts of hatred throughout the country, including in Northern Virginia, Texas, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and Arizona. Beyer will participate in Friday prayers at Dar al-Hijrah (3159 Row Street, Falls Church, Virginia 22044) at 12:15 PM. Following the service, he will join Imam Johari Abdul-Malik to speak with reporters and the public. Rep. Ellison will celebrate Friday prayers at his local mosque in Minnesota. “The recent attack on the mosque in Falls Church is an attack on the core American value of freedom of religion. We must all stand together and condemn these acts of hatred and intolerance—they are not who we are as a people. Sadly, attacks on Muslim Americans have increased due to Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump calling for the surveillance of mosques and registering Muslim Americans. Our communities and nation are strongest when people of all faiths and backgrounds hold fast to tolerance and inclusion,” said Rep. Ellison. “Members of Congress are the faces of their communities, and we must bring to our jobs a knowledge of the diversity of religions and cultures that make up our both our individual districts and the nation. We must also speak out when we see prejudice, discrimination, and hate - whether it’s a bomb threat on a mosque, a child bullied on a bus, or a slur painted on a building,” said Rep. Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. “Intolerance is a dangerous thing, and we will never be able to grow as a society if we allow it to go unchecked.” Friday is traditionally a day of reflection and prayer in the Islamic faith. Known as Jumu’ah, the celebration typically consists of a sermon followed by community prayers in the afternoon. Any Member unable to join in the Falls Church visit is encouraged to attend prayer services in their home district this Friday. Text of the letter: Join Us: Show Solidarity with the American Muslim Community Dear Colleague: Two weeks ago, a mosque just ten miles from the Capitol was the recipient of a hoax bomb and Molotov cocktails were thrown in the parking lot. This attack is just one of many examples of anti-Muslim actions and rhetoric being felt in local communities across the country. Another recent example, just 50 miles south of here at a recent Spotsylvania County community meeting: Protestors told members of the Islamic Center of Fredericksburg that all Muslims are terrorists and to get out of “their town.” Or in Texas, where an armed protest was held outside the Islamic Center of Irving and the protest sponsor published names and addresses of those he targeted and identified as being Muslims and “Muslim sympathizers.” We must show that we will not tolerate islamophobia and that those who propagate it do not represent the melting-pot America that we celebrate. Leaders in support of American diversity and in support of the Muslim communities we represent, respect, and work hand-in-hand with for peace, must speak more loudly than the intolerant. We invite you to join in this Friday to stand in solidarity with Dar Al-Hijrah Mosque -- the mosque that received the hoax bomb -- and with all our American Muslim communities, by attending Friday prayers and joining us for a short press conference against bigotry. Those attending will depart the Capitol on Friday, December 4th, for Dar Al-Hijrah Mosque, 3159 Row St, Falls Church, VA 22044, to join Friday prayers at 12:15 pm. Following the service, we will join Imam Johari Abdul-Malik to speak to reporters and the public. If you cannot join us on Friday, we invite you to attend prayers at a mosque in your congressional district to show Muslims around the country that Members of Congress stand with them in the face of intolerance. Every nation faces chapters of bigotry and discrimination against religious, ethnic or racial groups. What sets the United States apart is our ability to rise up collectively against these wrongs to achieve civility, acceptance, and inclusion. Help us show solidarity with the American Muslim community by joining us on Friday. For more information, please contact Kate at Kate.Schisler@mail.house.gov or Adnan at Adnan.Mohamed@mail.house.gov in Congressman Beyer’s office. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Keith Ellison Joseph Crowley MEMBER OF CONGRESS MEMBER OF CONGRESS MEMBER OF CONGRESS ###
11.17.2015	Virginia delegation colleagues Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), and Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-VA) joined Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) to meet with incoming Metro General Manager Paul Wiedefeld today. share: f t Virginia delegation colleagues Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA), and Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-VA) joined Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) to meet with incoming Metro General Manager Paul Wiedefeld today. “Paul Wiedefeld’s has the right priorities—safety and security, reliability, and fiscal responsibility—and he has the background and experience to bring them all to WMATA as a General Manager,” said Congresswoman Norton. “I stressed to Mr. Wiedefeld the need for WMATA to embrace safety oversight by the Federal Transit Administration and get both WMATA’s safety and fiscal house in order to stop the loss of riders. If Congress is to be helpful to the new General Manager, we must focus on restoring the full $150 million in annual capital safety funding for WMATA in the omnibus appropriations bill to match the $150 million the region’s three jurisdictions have allocated.” “Metro is in need of a top-to-bottom overhaul that addresses safety, governance, workforce, financial, and operational issues, all of which are inextricably linked,” said Rep. Connolly. “It will be a very difficult task to reverse the stunning decline of Metro and restore a culture of safety, competence, and confidence. I and other members of the Virginia delegation expressed our full support to Mr. Wiedefeld in that endeavor. We need him to be successful.” “More than 750,000 people in the national capital region ride Metro every day. Mr. Wiedefeld has an important challenge before him, and we stand poised to help. We communicated that, as well as our hopes and expectations of a safe, reliable future for Metro at today’s meeting,” said Rep. Beyer. “Metro’s new General Manager Paul Wiedefeld has many challenges before him and he has our support as he embarks to fix Metro and upgrade management so that it can be a reliable source of transportation for the entire region. Metro must get its house in order so it can provide safe and reliable service to all of our constituents and visitors to the Capitol Region - failure is not an option,” said Rep. Comstock.
11.16.2015	At the request of Rep. Don Beyer, civil rights icon and Georgia Congressman John Lewis visited Alexandria's T.C. Williams High School this morning, where he spoke with humor and a deep sense of history to hundreds of students gathered in the school's auditorium. share: f t At the request of Rep. Don Beyer, civil rights icon and Georgia Congressman John Lewis visited Alexandria's T.C. Williams High School this morning, where he spoke with humor and a deep sense of history to hundreds of students gathered in the school's auditorium. Rep. Lewis spoke of asking his parents, who were sharecroppers, why racism and segregation existed. “That’s the way it is, John,” his parents told him. “Don’t get in the way, don’t get in trouble.” The students, primarily juniors and seniors studying U.S. history or government, sat rapt and then asked questions, mainly about his teachings of nonviolence. Rep. Lewis is the only surviving member of the "Big Six," the leaders of the most prominent African-American civil rights organizations during the height of the movement, in the 1960s. He was the chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. The 2014 movie Selma, which told the story of the mid-1960s and an epic chapter of the civil rights movement, depicted Rep. Lewis' leadership in the 1965 march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge, when he was beaten and suffered a fractured skull. "After watching Selma and thinking about T.C. Williams' own moving story of integration, I thought it would be powerful to have John Lewis speak to today's Titans, and it was," Beyer said. “I heard Rosa Parks. I heard Martin Luther King. And I got in the way. I got in trouble. But good trouble,” Rep. Lewis said. “Go out there and lead.”
11.12.2015	Congressman Don Beyer joined Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Julian Castro and Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy this morning to announce HUD’s “Instituting Smoke-Free Public Housing Proposed Rule” requiring smoke-free policies in public housing. share: f t Congressman Don Beyer joined Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Julian Castro and Surgeon General Dr. Vivek Murthy this morning to announce HUD’s “Instituting Smoke-Free Public Housing Proposed Rule” requiring smoke-free policies in public housing. “Smoking is the leading cause of preventable deaths in the U.S., especially for those living below the poverty line,” said Rep. Beyer. “Smoking in public housing increases the costs to everyone, including neighbors and children exposed to second hand smoke. I welcome Secretary Castro and HUD’s decision and continuing efforts to make our public housing units safe, affordable, and healthy.” The proposed rule would require public housing agencies (PHAs) to implement smoke-free policies in all units, indoor common areas, close proximity outdoor spaces, and PHA administrative buildings. HUD believes that banning lit tobacco products in these spaces would improve the health of residents and PHA staff members, reduce the risk of fires, and lower overall maintenance costs.
11.06.2015	Congressman Don Beyer joined Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) this week to introduce the FAA Community Accountability Act to give voice to local communities in the Federal Aviation Administration’s flight path decision-making process. share: f t Congressman Don Beyer joined Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) this week to introduce the FAA Community Accountability Act to give voice to local communities in the Federal Aviation Administration’s flight path decision-making process. “Our communities deserve greater input in the FAA’s processes to minimize airplane noise,” said Rep. Beyer. “I am proud to join Congressman Gallego in urging the FAA to be more inclusive in considering the impact of its flight paths.” The Beyer-Gallego proposal would require community involvement in the planning of flight paths and airport operations. The bill would compel the FAA to take aircraft noise into account when implementing new flight paths over, or adjacent to, residential areas. It would also create Community Ombudsmen positions to monitor the impact of these flight paths and serve as liaisons between the FAA and local communities. Lastly, the legislation would create a new process for reviewing and potentially changing flight paths already implemented through the NextGen program. The bill’s original cosponsors include Reps. David Schweikert (R-AZ), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Steve Israel (D-NY), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), and Alan Grayson (D-FL).
11.05.2015	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) secured passage of their amendment to the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act to give states and localities full authority to regulate towing. share: f t Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) secured passage of their amendment to the House Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act to give states and localities full authority to regulate towing. “State and local governments provide the best authority to regulate the towing industry and protect Virginians from unfair, predatory practices,” said Rep. Beyer. “We need more common-sense, consumer friendly solutions like this amendment to protect our constituents’ wallets.” “Predatory towing practices harm consumers and can lead to real financial pain,” said Rep. Van Hollen. “Local communities should be able to address consumer complaints and crack down on companies that engage in abusive towing practices, and this amendment will give them back that authority.” In 1994, Congress inadvertently created a loophole that limited state and local regulation of the towing industry. Since then, confusing restrictions and conflicting court rulings have left state and local governments unable to fully protect consumers from predatory towing practices. Congressman Beyer and Congressman Van Hollen introduced the State and Local Predatory Towing Enforcement Act to restore full authority for regulating unscrupulous towing to state and local governments, who are better-equipped to find the right balance for their communities. This amendment would add that legislation to the House transportation bill, which is expected to pass this week.
11.05.2015	Congressman Don Beyer joined Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01) today to introduce the Protecting Individuals From Mass Aerial Surveillance Act, which would require the federal government to obtain a warrant to conduct aerial surveillance in the United States. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), and Ted Poe (TX-02) are original cosponsors of the bipartisan bill. share: f t Congressman Don Beyer joined Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01) today to introduce the Protecting Individuals From Mass Aerial Surveillance Act, which would require the federal government to obtain a warrant to conduct aerial surveillance in the United States. Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), and Ted Poe (TX-02) are original cosponsors of the bipartisan bill. “Our law enforcement agencies need modern tools to combat crime and terrorism in the face of emerging technologies, but we must take every precaution to preserve civil liberties and privacy rights,” said Rep. Beyer. “I am proud to join Rep. DelBene’s common-sense legislation to protect our constituents from privacy incursions.” “Just because technological advances have made it easier for the federal government to collect information doesn’t mean that our privacy rights can or should be violated on the ground or in the air,” Rep. DelBene said. “Congress has an obligation to clear the legal fog by passing my bill to require the federal government to obtain a warrant if it wants to conduct aerial surveillance.” The Protecting Individuals From Mass Aerial Surveillance Act would prohibit the government from identifying law-abiding Americans who show up incidentally in surveillance, and it would prohibit unlawfully collected information from being used in court. The bill also includes common-sense exceptions for terrorist threats, border security, surveying public lands and scanning disaster relief areas. “The recently reported expanded use of aerial surveillance on U.S. soil raises serious Constitutional and civil liberties issues that Congress needs to address,” Rep. Lofgren said. “This legislation includes important guidelines to protect Americans’ privacy in a time of increasing surveillance technologies.” “Unmanned Aerial Systems are revolutionizing entire sectors of the economy – saving time, money, and even human lives. As this technology proliferates, however, so too must our privacy protections,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “This bill ensures that Americans can be confident in the fact that there are clear protections from illegal surveillance by UAS carried out by either the government or the private sector.” Earlier this year, news reports revealed that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) conducts aerial surveillance missions over many U.S. cities. The reports suggested that some of the aircraft were equipped with devices, such as StingRays and high resolution cameras, which can capture massive amounts of data including images, emails, texts, calls and geolocation. The House bill is a companion measure to Sens. Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Dean Heller’s (R-NV) legislation.
11.05.2015	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on news that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) reached a final agreement with its new General Manager Paul Wiedefeld: share: f t Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on news that the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) reached a final agreement with its new General Manager Paul Wiedefeld: “Today’s news concludes a period of uncertainty for Metro. Paul Wiedefeld’s transportation and executive experience gives him the tools to provide WMATA with the leadership a first class transit system needs. I look forward to working with him to ensure a safe, reliable future for Metro as a critical part of the national capitol area’s transportation infrastructure.”
10.27.2015	The Center for American Progress (CAP) released a new report this morning, Virginia Under the Gun, detailing four aspects of gun violence in Virginia that stand out above the national average. share: f t The Center for American Progress (CAP) released a new report this morning, Virginia Under the Gun, detailing four aspects of gun violence in Virginia that stand out above the national average. “I wish I could say these sobering facts in CAP’s report surprise me, but they do not,” said Rep. Beyer. “Our leaders in Richmond continue to block measures meant to protect Virginians from gun violence and keep our families safe. Elected officials in Washington are no better.” Virginia Under the Gun reports that: Virginia is one of 17 states where more people are killed annually by gunfire than in car accidents. Virginia ranks third among the states for the highest number of guns exported out of state and used in crime, behind only Georgia and Texas. Women are killed with guns by intimate partners at a rate that is 21 percent higher than the national average. Virginia ranks fourth among the states for highest number of individuals killed in mass shootings: 1 in 20 victims of fatal mass shootings in the United States from 2006 to 2015 were killed in Virginia. “Gun violence is not an unsolvable problem. This crisis has gone on for far too long, at the cost of far too many lives, for us to do nothing. It is time for Washington and Richmond to wake up and begin the process to start protecting American families,” Beyer added. The CAP report can be found here.
10.15.2015	Congressman Don Beyer thanked Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe for signing an executive order to keep guns out of the hands of dangerous individuals by better enforcing pre-existing Virginia laws. “We must keep families in our Commonwealth and the nation safe from gun violence,” said Rep. Beyer. “This Executive Order will support our Attorney General and our law enforcement personnel as they take real, tangible steps toward curbing unnecessary gun violence. Common sense actions like this one – or those outlined in my Keeping Guns from Criminals Act – are supported by a majority of Americans, and yet Congress does nothing. I thank Governor McAuliffe for his work, and will continue to work in Congress to make sure no Virginian lives in fear of being the victim of another tragic shooting.” In June Rep. Beyer introduced the Keeping Guns from Criminals Act to close a loophole in federal law that allows straw purchasers and gun traffickers to funnel firearms to felons, juveniles, and other restricted purchasers with little to no risk of being prosecuted. The Act would streamline law enforcement efforts to ensure safe firearms transfers between lawful owners and make it easier to prosecute private sellers who make irresponsible sales by requiring them to prove that the purchase was approved by the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) or that the purchaser held a concealed weapons permit in the state of transfer. NICS background checks are available through most Federal Firearm Licensees (FFL) for a nominal fee of around $30. According the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, there are nearly 130,000 FFLs nationwide. Learn more about the Governor’s Executive Action here. Learn more about the Keeping Guns for Criminals Act here.
10.06.2015	Sasha DiGiulian, the first woman to free climb the Magic Mushroom route on the north face of the Eiger and the first American woman to free climb the Eiger, will receive the Clara Mortensen Beyer Women and Children First Award at Rep. Don Beyer’s upcoming conference, Women Driving the Economy. share: f t October 6, 2015 (Washington, DC) – Sasha DiGiulian, the first woman to free climb the Magic Mushroom route on the north face of the Eiger and the first American woman to free climb the Eiger, will receive the Clara Mortensen Beyer Women and Children First Award at Rep. Don Beyer’s upcoming conference, Women Driving the Economy. "I have known Sasha since she was a little girl with big dreams. She is a role model for anyone who has a goal," Rep. Beyer said. "Her accomplishment in Switzerland once again shows when given a chance, women can achieve what men can achieve." “Passion is an important foundation for every individual to possess, though also significant is a fearless ability to pursue whatever that passion may be. It is important for women to recognize that the opinions of others are irrelevant to this task,” DiGiulian said. “Self-confidence and drive surpass any oppositional negativity. I would love to see women join together in this effort to empower each other and to show the world that yes, She Can.” While Ambassador to Switzerland in 2011, Don Beyer created the Clara Mortensen Beyer Women and Children First Award. It is named after his grandmother, who is credited with convincing the Roosevelt Administration to appoint Frances Perkins, the first female Cabinet Secretary in the United States. Clara Beyer served as Secretary Perkins’ right hand, working on child labor issues. She was the first woman appointed as US representative to the International Labor Organization in Geneva. The award is given to exceptional women who have made a difference on behalf of women’s empowerment. This year, Sasha DiGiulian became the first American woman to tackle one of the world’s toughest ascents, free-climbing in August the north face of the Eiger, a 13,462-foot peak in the Swiss Alps. More than sixty climbers have lost their lives on the north face since it was first summited in 1935. Sasha is an advocate of pushing beyond perceived boundaries to achieve. She is an inspiration for women, girls, and all Americans. People told her “little girls don’t belong on the Eiger.” She did not listen. Previous awardees include Ambassador to the United States U.N. Mission in Geneva Betty King, who authored the Millennium Development Goals on Women and Girls, Ruth Gaby Vermot, the founder of "Peace Women," and Lisa Feldmann, Editor of Annabelle Magazine in Switzerland.
10.05.2015	October 5, 2015 (Washington, DC) – Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on the announcement of a final deal on the Trans-Pacific Partnership: “I welcome today’s announcement from Atlanta that representatives from the United States and eleven other countries reached an agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership. I thank the negotiators for years of tireless work to make this day possible. I look forward to reviewing the details of this proposal with great care and the benefit of public and expert input prior to a Congressional vote.”
10.01.2015	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement in the wake of today’s shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon: “Speaker Boehner wants to ‘clear the barn’ in his last month in office, he said. Today’s tragedy in Oregon reminds us of an opportunity for him: It is within the Speaker’s power to bring a common-sense bill on gun violence prevention to the House floor. In doing so, he could bypass the intractable House Judiciary Committee, where the Chairman tables all such proposals that might stem the tide of gun violence. How many communities must continue to live in fear of these tragedies before we do something? “This week, 147 members of the U.S. House – Democrat and Republican – sent Speaker Boehner a letter asking for consideration of just one of nearly 100 bills that can protect innocent lives. Expanding background checks and keeping guns out of the hands of the mentally ill and criminals are practical reforms that a majority of Americans support. I call on him today to allow a vote on legislation to prevent such tragedies. “Far too often we are heartbroken by the news of another tragic shooting. It was only four weeks ago that a gunman killed an on-air TV reporter and her cameraman in Southwest Virginia. My heart goes out to all the victims, families, and friends impacted by today’s horrific shooting.”
09.30.2015	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement on the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) recommendations announced today calling for direct federal safety oversight of Washington’s Metrorail system by the Federal Railroad Administration: “Metro can and should be the nation’s premier public transportation system. I am disheartened by Metro’s seeming inability to get out of this quagmire of problems. I will give today’s NTSB recommendation serious thought, and am eager to hear the reactions of Northern Virginians as well. Without a functioning Metro system, we will not have a functioning national capital.”
09.29.2015	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) introduced H.R. 3635, the “Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,” which would secure retroactive pay for all federal employees during a federal government shutdown, regardless of furlough status. Congressman Rob Wittman (R-VA) is the lead Republican cosponsor. “Federal employees have financial obligations just like everyone else. Congress must not jeopardize their financial security yet again,” said Rep. Beyer (VA-08). “This bipartisan legislation ensures that these public servants are made whole if Congress cannot keep our government running.” Federal employee pay is suspended in the event of a funding lapse or government shutdown. Retroactive pay for all “essential” and “non-essential” federal workers must be approved by Congress. “The all-too-common uncertainty that plagues budget discussions in Washington is undermining the important work our federal employees carry out on behalf of their fellow citizens. It is critical to protect these public servants and their families from this uncertainty, and at the same time to bring accountability to the way Congress carries out its business. Long-term vision is necessary for ending this recurring cycle of governing by crisis,” said Rep. Rob Wittman (VA-01). Congressman Beyer’s 8th District and Congressman Wittman’s 1st District in Virginia are home to approximately 120,000 federal employees. The National Treasury Employees Union and the American Federation of Government Employees have each voiced their support for Beyer-Wittman’s Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. “For the second time in two years, hundreds of thousands of federal employees are facing the possibility of being furloughed without pay or being required to work not knowing when they will get paid,” said NTEU National President Tony Reardon. “NTEU appreciates the work of Rep. Beyer and other sponsors of this bill to mitigate the impact on our members, who don’t deserve to yet again face uncertainty at work, and in their wallets.” AFGE National President J. David Cox, Sr. voiced his support for the legislation, saying: “AFGE thanks Representatives Don Beyer and Rob Wittman for their leadership in introducing the Retroactive Fair Pay Act of 2015. The prospect of another government shutdown is unsettling enough for employees, without the added threat of permanently lost income, falling behind on bills and other adverse financial consequences. This bipartisan legislation takes at least one concern off the table, so employees can focus like they always do on securing our borders, keeping terrorists off of airplanes, and caring for our nation’s heroes.” The bill had 64 bipartisan cosponsors when it was introduced today, including the entire national capitol region delegation. “I’m proud to represent tens of thousands of hardworking and dedicated federal employees in Maryland’s Fifth District who should not be penalized in the event of a government shutdown,” said Rep. Steny H. Hoyer (MD-05). “I hope that Congress will fund the government so that our federal employees who are responsible for the safety and well-being of our nation can continue the many services they perform for all Americans. I am cosponsoring this legislation with my colleagues so that if a shutdown does occur, we can ensure that our federal employees will receive retroactive pay.” “The callous subjection of millions of our nation’s federal workers to near annual fear and uncertainty about federal shutdowns make them first line victims of congressional dysfunction,” Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) said. “Our bill will give all federal workers the peace of mind their hard work has earned that they will receive back pay when the government reopens.” “Federal employees should not be harmed if Congress fails to reach an agreement to avoid a government shutdown,” stated Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03). “I commend Congressman Beyer and Congressman Wittman for working together to give federal employees some peace of mind that they will be retroactively paid if there is a shutdown.” "I remind those Members of Congress determined to shut down the government that their political gamesmanship hurts federal workers, including many of my constituents, and the American people they serve. This legislation is the least we can do to help federal employees who are locked out of work through no fault of their own," said Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-07). "Federal employees should not bear the brunt of Congress' inability to pass a budget," said Rep. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02). “Another government shutdown would be a shameful and fruitless endeavor. But if partisan lawmakers insist on holding the country hostage to their ideological agenda, then the least we can do is ensure our dedicated public servants don’t pay the price for Congress’ dysfunction,” said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (MD-08). “While we have seemingly averted this latest crisis, we need to ensure that when the next manufactured threat of a shutdown occurs, our federal workers remain protected,” said Rep. John Sarbanes (MD-03). “We must prevent partisan politics from harming the financial security of hardworking federal employees and their families.” “The government shutdown in 2013 cost our economy $24 billion and 120,000 private-sector jobs,” Rep. Donna Edwards (MD-04) said. “It is unconscionable that some would be willing to repeat such a costly mistake, but we are on the brink once again. It is time to move past partisanship and ideology, and instead work to keep 128,000 Maryland federal employees on the job. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the ‘Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,’ and to work with my colleagues to ensure that Maryland’s federal employees, and millions more across the country, receive the pay they deserve.” “I am proud to represent thousands of public servants, yet those pushing Congress toward another reckless government shutdown fail to recognize that the vast majority of federal employees actually live outside of this region in their own home states. These are middle class Americans providing vital services on behalf of our neighbors each and every day. Their work should be celebrated and, yes, fairly compensated,” said Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11). “Our colleagues often say government should be run more like a business, yet they once again are on the verge of allowing narrow partisanship to cleave a self-inflicted wound on our economy.” “Federal workers should not be burdened by Washington’s dysfunction,” said Rep. Scott Rigell (VA-02). “We need to make sure these hard working men and women are made whole if there is an unfortunate government shutdown.” “Hard-working federal employees shouldn’t pay the price for partisan dysfunction in Washington,” said Rep. John Delaney (MD-06). “I’m proud to stand with federal workers and their families in cosponsoring legislation to ensure that they do not suffer needless financial hardship because extremists in Congress cause a shutdown. Maryland is home to over 100,000 federal employees, men and women who make our country safer, more innovative and stronger. It is outrageous that my constituents are facing furloughs because a loud few are pursuing a partisan agenda.” “I am working hard with my colleagues to keep the government open because federal employees and contractors should not be used as a political football by either side for partisan gain. We are a nation that faces national security and homeland security threats. Federal employees, including FBI agents are working around the clock tracking down terrorists, in addition to Central Intelligence Agency, Department of Defense, and National Security Agency analysts who are monitoring incoming intelligence and are on the frontlines keeping us safe. These dedicated employees, as well as the rest of our federal workforce such as researchers who are working on medical breakthroughs at NIH and VA doctors and nurses who treat our wounded warriors need to know that their government will honor its commitment to these workers and their families. As we move toward October 1st, I will continue to talk and work with my colleagues to make sure the government remains open,” said Rep. Barbara Comstock (VA-10).
09.28.2015	“Women are the backbone of our economy, and it is time Congress had their back,” Rep. Don Beyer said today as he announced a “Men for Women” House Caucus to promote economic growth through women’s empowerment. Forty percent of American households with a child under the age of eighteen depend on a woman’s salary as the sole or primary source of income. Women are estimated to make more than seventy percent of all retail purchasing decisions. Women investors are the fastest growing sector making investments on Wall Street. “As workers, consumers, and investors, women drive the economy,” Beyer added. “Congress is still eighty percent male. This caucus will support initiatives to unleash the power of women to further drive growth -- for the sake of our economic success we will be working to overcome obstacles which hold our economy back.” The caucus of male members of the U.S. House will introduce and promote policies to further full economic parity and participation of women. It is aimed at taking full advantage of female labor participation and the dividends of making U.S. companies more balanced in their leadership. “The Men for Women House Caucus exists to empower women in the economy,” said Beyer. “It will sponsor legislation, convene stakeholders, and communicate the economic imperative of moving to greater parity.” Nearly a century after women earned the right to vote, America still has a gender pay gap, a glass ceiling, and other obstacles to equal economic inclusion. “These deficits in economic equality represent an opportunity for economic growth – when women succeed, our economy succeeds,” Rep. Beyer added. A member of the Joint Economic Committee, Beyer pointed to just-released findings by McKinsey and Company that efforts to advance women’s economic equality could improve global GDP by 12 trillion dollars. In the U.S. since the 1970s, female labor participation has accounted for fully a quarter of total GDP growth. The first caucus initiative announced today is a Corporate Gender Diversity Resolution supporting market-based efforts to boost the participation of women in leadership. A 2012 study by Credit Suisse showed companies with more women on boards were more profitable. The resolution cites private efforts to commit companies to expanding leadership teams to include women. Beyer was joined by Peter Grauer, Chairman of Bloomberg LP and Founding Chairman of the U.S. 30% Club. The Club is a group of business leaders committed to better gender balance at all levels of their organizations through voluntary actions. The club launched in 2014 with an aspirational goal of achieving 30% women on S&P 500 boards by the end of 2020. Today, there are 49 U.S. chairman and CEO members committed to using a range of levers to achieve meaningful, sustainable change. Member Chairmen and CEOs include Warren Buffet of Berkshire Hathaway, Mike Fucci of Deloitte, Larry Fink of BlackRock, Clarke Murphy of Russell Reynolds Associates, and Ursula Burns of Xerox. Recently, Beyer introduced the Gender Diversity Investment Act, legislation which would allow federal workers to allocate a portion of their 401K accounts to index funds comprised of companies which have substantial numbers of women in leadership positions.
09.23.2015	Congressman Don Beyer will join Peter Grauer, Chairman of Bloomberg LP and Founding Chairman of the US 30% Club, on Monday, September 28th for a press conference to announce new initiatives to advance women in leadership in U.S. businesses to improve American economic competitiveness. share: f t Congressman Don Beyer will join Peter Grauer, Chairman of Bloomberg LP and Founding Chairman of the US 30% Club, on Monday, September 28th for a press conference to announce new initiatives to advance women in leadership in U.S. businesses to improve American economic competitiveness. Who: Rep. Don Beyer and members of Men for Women Caucus Peter Grauer, Founding Chairman, 30% Club When: 12:30 PM, September 28th Where: The National Press Club Zenger Room 529 14th Street N.W. 13th Floor Washington, D.C. 20045 The 30% Club first launched in the United Kingdom to improve the gender diversity of corporate boards. In the United States the group is committed to better gender balance by achieving 30% of women on S&P 500 boards by the end of 2020.
09.22.2015	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Rob Wittman (R-VA) distributed a letter to House colleagues today to build support for the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. The bipartisan proposal has already collected 24 cosponsors ahead of its introduction next week to protect federal worker pay in the event of a shutdown. “Our federal employees work every day to carry out vital missions keeping our country healthy, safe, and strong,” said Rep. Beyer. “Their pay, and their family’s well-being, should not be in jeopardy because Congress failed to do its job again. I hope my colleagues on Capitol Hill empathize with the anguish these funding battles cause hard-working American families.” Federal employee pay is suspended in the event of a funding lapse or government shutdown. Retroactive pay for all “essential” and “non-essential” federal workers must be approved by Congress. "Consistency and certainty in government funding is critical for our federal employees to carry out the vital missions with which they've been tasked,” said Rep. Wittman. “Congress' unfortunate tendency to govern by crisis stymies the efforts of these dedicated public servants. I will fight to minimize the impacts of this funding uncertainty on the well-being of our federal workers and their families, while also working to return Congress to a regular schedule of budgeting and passing appropriations bills." Congressman Beyer’s 8th District and Congressman Wittman’s 1st District are home to approximately 120,000 federal employees combined. The text of the letter follows: September 22, 2015 Support the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act Dear Colleague: We write concerning the current stalemate over funding for the federal government and ask that you join us as cosponsors of the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act. This bipartisan proposal ensures that all federal employees receive retroactive pay for the duration of any shutdown, regardless of furlough status. As you know, absent congressional action, appropriations for the federal government will expire at midnight on September 30, at which point funding will lapse and the government will shut down for the second time in two years. Should this occur, federal employees who are “excepted” would be asked to work without pay until a funding agreement is reached. The remainder, some 800,000 or so, would be furloughed without pay. In order to make these individuals whole again Congress must approve retroactive payment through the legislative process. Preferably, Congress will reach an agreement to enact legislation to fully fund the government and allow our dedicated federal workforce to continue to carry out its critical mission. In absence of such agreement and with time running dangerously short, federal employees should be assured that there is agreement in Congress that they will receive their full pay in a fair and timely manner. We hope you will join us as a cosponsor and give federal employees and their families some measure of confidence that they will receive pay for the time they worked or were furloughed during a government shutdown. Sincerely, Donald S. Beyer Jr. Robert J. Wittman Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
09.17.2015	Congressman Don Beyer today welcomed Rock the Vote’s support for his PROVE Act, which would allow sixteen year olds to pre-register to vote. “America’s future depends on our young voters getting and staying engaged. This is their country and it is time we gave them the respect they deserve,” said Rep. Beyer. “Rock the Vote’s support is incredible. More than anyone, they know how powerful young Americans are when they let their voices be heard.” Rock the Vote is the largest non-profit and non-partisan organization in the United States building the political power of young people. Rock the Vote President Ashley Spillane said, “Our democracy is strongest when all eligible voters are empowered to participate. There is strong evidence that suggests allowing young people to preregister to vote can be an effective way to increase overall voter participation and encourage civic engagement. Rock the Vote supports policies that removes barriers and boosts participation, especially when it comes Millennials, the largest, most diverse population in our country's generation. We hope that allowing young Americans to preregister to vote in federal elections will be seriously considered.” Beyer introduced H.R. 3522, the PROVE Act, this week to standardize pre-registration of teenagers older than sixteen. These young Americans would automatically be added to the voting roles when they turned eighteen.
09.16.2015	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN), with Congressman Elijah Cummings (D-MD), celebrated National Voter Registration Month today by introducing the Pre-Registration of Voters Everywhere (PROVE) Act. Beyer’s legislation would allow young Americans over the age of sixteen to pre-register to vote, streamlining the voting process once they turn eighteen. “This is a common sense reform to increase civic engagement in our youngest generations,” said Rep. Beyer. “Pre-registration, especially when reinforced with a strong civics curriculum, is a proven method to boost engagement in future generations. This is a small but meaningful step to strengthening representative government and our American democracy.” “Our nation is stronger when our government reflects the makeup and the values of the American people. One way to ensure that is by making it easier to vote and getting as many people as possible to the ballot box. The PROVE Act will do just that. In the 20 states where sixteen year olds can already pre-register, civic engagement for young people is higher. Passing a federal law requiring all states to allow pre-registration will help our government be more representative and respond to the needs of all Americans,” said Rep. Ellison. “To help tackle the poverty, over-criminalization, violence, and unemployment we see in communities across this country, especially poor communities of color, we must help our children understand the power of their vote,” original cosponsor Rep. Cummings said. “The PROVE Act works to engage our nation’s young people with the election process early, and to encourage their lasting participation in our democracy for years to come.” Young people are already allowed to pre-register to vote in twenty states and the District of Columbia. The PROVE Act would nationalize this standard to engage more youth voters, who are overwhelmingly marginalized at the ballot box, and provide grant assistance to states to drive civics education. In the last election, only sixteen percent of eligible voters under the age of 24 cast their vote. The non-profit grassroots organization Common Cause, dedicated to restoring the core values of American democracy, has already signed on to support the Beyer-Ellison legislation. “Common Cause commends Congressmen Beyer and Ellison for introducing the PROVE Act,” said Aaron Scherb, Director of Legislative Affairs at Common Cause. “At a time when some states and localities are making it more difficult for Americans to vote, the PROVE Act is desperately needed to help ensure that all eligible voters can have their voices heard at the ballot box.” Project Vote, a national nonprofit working to empower, educate, and mobilize low income, minority, youth, and other underrepresented voters, pledged their support to the PROVE Act. "We applaud the leadership of Congressmen Beyer and Ellison on this important issue," said Marissa Liebling, Legislative Director for Project Vote. "Young Americans remain dramatically underrepresented at the ballot box, and pre-registration has proven to be an effective and efficient way of engaging this population in the democratic process." FairVote, an advocacy group researching and advancing electoral reforms to make democracy more functional, representative, and fair, also weighed in to support the PROVE Act. "It's time to make pre-registration a national norm. We've supported and tracked it from the beginning. Experience shows that voter pre-registration is good government that efficiently increases the number of young people accurately placed on active voter rolls when they reach voting age. It has passed by lopsided margins in Republican-run states like Florida and Louisiana and in Democratic-run states like Maryland and Delaware -- and delivered on its promises in all of them,” said Rob Richie, Executive Director of FairVote. Pre-registration was one aspect of ‘access to the ballot’ that the Center for American Progress used when grading the Health of State Democracies in a recent report. Of the fifty states and the District of Columbia, Virginia ranked a disappointing 50th.
09.14.2015	Congressman Don Beyer today dismissed Governor Scott Walker’s proposals to weaken federal worker protections as absurd and out of touch. "Doing away with our federal employee unions and eroding the tremendous progress made possible by FDR’s National Labor Relations Act is no way to get elected President,” said Rep. Beyer. “Our labor movement has helped make possible the minimum wage, the eight hour workday, a forty hour workweek, safer working environments, health coverage, and Social Security – the bedrock of America’s middle class.” Addressing Governor Walker’s proposal to eliminate federal employee unions, Beyer added, “Our federal employees already work under the threat of sequestration, shutdowns, furloughs, and pay freezes. These are hardworking civil servants making a lasting impact on our country. They deserve a pay raise, not demagoguery.”
09.01.2015	On the Eve of the Washington, DC premier of "A Walk In the Woods" this week, Congressman Don Beyer just returned from his 46th section hike of the Appalachian Trail. share: f t On the Eve of the Washington, DC premier of "A Walk In the Woods" this week, Congressman Don Beyer just returned from his 46th section hike of the Appalachian Trail. Last weekend’s 35 mile hike is just one of 46 section hikes the Congressman has done since he began in April 2002, vowing to complete the entire trail. “I would be much further along than I am, but President Obama sent me to Switzerland as his Ambassador from 2009-2013. While it is a hiker’s heaven, I still missed the AT,” Beyer said. In the scores of excursions, Beyer has completed over 1,253 miles of the US National Park that runs from Georgia to Maine. "I am so grateful that our longest National Park, my favorite American Park, is getting a little love from Hollywood," he added. Sixty different people have come along on the hikes, including former US Senator Chuck Robb, Potomac Auto Body Shop technician Joe Latinka, Swiss Embassy Deputy Chief of Mission Daniel Hunn, conservative radio host John McCaslin, former political opponent Bruce Shuttleworth, Hillary Clinton aide Sara O’Keefe, United States Ambassador to the Netherlands Tim Broas, and internist Ambrish Gupta. Beyer’s first job after graduating from Williams College in 1972 was as a US Park Ranger. Today Beyer serves on the Federal Lands Subcommittee of the House of Representatives Natural Resources Committee and is a strong advocate for the environment and fighting global warming. He led Virginia’s campaign for an Appalachian Trail license plate, which helps to fund maintenance of the trail.
08.27.2015	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement following this morning’s shooting of reporter Alison Parker, photographer Adam Ward and Vicki Gardner, head of the Smith Mountain Lake Regional Chamber of Commerce: share: f t Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement following this morning’s shooting of reporter Alison Parker, photographer Adam Ward and Vicki Gardner, head of the Smith Mountain Lake Regional Chamber of Commerce: “This morning in Roanoke two young people with their whole lives ahead of them were shot and killed. Another woman was shot and is in surgery fighting for her life. Gun violence claims more than 30,000 lives per year. I want to be able to tell the victim’s families and loved ones that we did the best that we could to protect them. I want to be able to tell the people of the Commonwealth of Virginia that we will work to make sure this never happens again. No family should have to go through what Alison and Adam’s families have to go through today. I am heartbroken over these tragic and unnecessary deaths. All of our hearts, prayers, and sympathy are with their families.”
08.14.2015	Congressman Don Beyer, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Commerce Bruce Andrews, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Matt S. Erskine, visited 1776 yesterday for a roundtable and walkthrough at the incubator and venture fund’s recently opened Crystal City location as part of Start-Up Day Across America. “Startups, here in Northern Virginia and across the United States, fuel the kind of innovation we need to create a sustainable new American economy,” said Rep. Beyer. “They also create an average of 2 million jobs per year, which is why it is so important for us to make sure they have access to the resources they need to succeed. 1776 and the Commerce Department are doing just that in Crystal City and the results are clear.” “As ‘America’s Innovation Agency,’ the Commerce Department wants to make it easier and more efficient for entrepreneurs to build and grow their companies,” said U.S. Deputy Secretary of Commerce Bruce Andrews. “We are all in to support our nation’s startups and entrepreneurs because we want innovation to remain one of America’s greatest assets and exports.” Rep. Beyer, Deputy Secretary Andrews, and Deputy Assistant Secretary Erskine engaged with small business and tech leaders to highlight federal resources available to startups and the business community; from offering grants and facilitating the patent process to incentivizing collaborative research and development. They also discussed the federal government’s important role in driving the innovation needed to solve complex problems and fuel the 21st century American economy. Rep. Beyer and the Secretaries were joined by 1776 Global Affairs Director Brandon Pollak, 1776 Members Blake Hall, Co-founder and CEO of ID.me, Jordan Lloyd Bookey, Co-founder and Chief Mom of Zoobean, Felix Lloyd, Co-founder and Chief Dad of Zoobean, Matt Provo, Founder and CEO of ParkedIn, Kelly Zafar, Founder and CEO of CareerMaven, Jason Green, Co-founder of SkillSmart, David Fairbrothers, Co-founder of Dorsata, and Gary Hensley, Founder and CEO of edBacker. "There are world-changing startups right here in Northern Virginia, the D.C. region, and all over the country that are tackling major challenges,” said 1776 Global Affairs Director Brandon Pollak. “1776 is dedicated to unlocking those connections and resources that startups need to disrupt vital sectors of our economy and drive innovation that matters." Zoobean, a 1776 member startup participating in the tour, is a local Arlington startup that promotes early childhood education and literacy by connecting families with libraries and educational resources. They are already partnering with Alexandria and Arlington County Public Schools and Libraries and hope to expand further. Last week Zoobean participated in the White House’s first Demo Day to highlight the need for more inclusion in entrepreneurship. Beyer and the Secretaries also saw a demonstration from ParkedIn founder Matt Provo of his “personal parking assistant” app, connecting drivers to parking spaces. Start-Up Day Across America, which will be celebrated August 19th, is a bipartisan effort founded by Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO) and Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) to raise awareness about the important role of the start-up community. “Both Representative Beyer and I got our start as business owners before coming to Congress, and we know how difficult it is to get a new company off the ground,” said Rep. Jared Polis. “Startup Day allows lawmakers to experience life at a startup firsthand and gives local innovators the opportunity to discuss the challenges they face with their representatives. I’d like to thank Congressman Beyer, Deputy Secretary Andrews, and Deputy Assistant Secretary Erskine for participating and for supporting our nation’s innovation economy.” The Commerce Department resource vault supporting innovation, and a full list of resources for startups and their potential businesses partners can be found on Rep. Beyer’s website. More information about Start-Up Day Across America, 1776, Zoobean, White House Demo Day, and the Department of Commerce’s Open for Innovation event.
08.06.2015	Congressman Don Beyer issued the following statement, expressing his concern about the continuing erosion of the Voting Rights Act (VRA): “Our fundamental belief in the right to vote is part of what defines us as Americans. Legislative accomplishments brought about some of the best moments in our history. One of those moments came a half century ago today, when President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act to prevent state and local governments from denying black men and women suffrage. “For 48 years, bipartisan efforts in Congress consistently reaffirmed and upheld the VRA’s principles of one man, one vote; until 2013, when Shelby v. Alabama stripped the VRA of its critical preclearance tool. In the two years since, without federal preclearance, partisan state governments are manipulating state code to make voting more challenging. Even in the Commonwealth of Virginia, our strict new ID laws and redistricting quagmire should serve as an example of the need for greater, not less, federal involvement. “We took an important step in the march to expand civil rights fifty years ago today. It is our responsibility to fight to uphold those rights for all men and women and resist the recent attempts to roll back that progress as we continue marching forward.”
08.03.2015	Congressman Don Beyer welcomed the release of President Obama's final Clean Power Plan as an historic action on climate change: “Climate change is the existential crisis of our time. President Obama’s Clean Power Plan will combat this threat to our health, safety, and security of the generations who will inherit our environmental legacy," said Rep. Don Beyer. "Millions of American families depend on us to take the necessary steps to clean up our air and water. The Clean Power Plan is a smart and effective first step to limit carbon emissions from power plants, drive our transition to a zero-carbon renewable energy future, and make aggressive investments in clean energy technologies.” The Clean Power Plan aims to cut greenhouse gas emissions from American power plants by 32 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. Beyer continued: “We cannot continue to ignore our responsibility to address the dangers from climate change. The U. S. must commit to our role as an international leader on climate as we head toward talks at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris this December. The Clean Power Plan is a powerful example to show the world our serious commitment to act on climate change.” More information about the final plan here.
07.30.2015	“Nearly 191,000 Virginians go without access to affordable healthcare every year because the General Assembly refuses to expand Medicaid under ACA. The great irony is that the communities most in need are represented by some of the ACA’s biggest opponents in Richmond. The Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services estimates that Medicaid expansion would save the state $600 million through 2022. This is devastating to our Commonwealth - economically and morally.” "Fifty years ago today the United States took a courageous step to provide lifesaving healthcare to our nation’s elderly and most vulnerable. Today, Medicare and Medicaid provide health coverage to 1 in 3 Americans. The creation of Medicare and Medicaid was the single greatest health policy accomplishment in the 20th century. Fifty years later, it is time for us to make sure that equal access to health care, regardless of race, gender, or income is more than a talking point." “The Affordable Care Act (ACA) is another step toward bridging inequality divide, yet Virginians continue to miss out. I will continue to work with Governor McAulliffe to extend Medicaid coverage to all Virginians who need it in the Commonwealth." Today we celebrate the 50th anniversary of this historic legislative accomplishment and we must remain committed to protecting the health and well-being of millions of American families."
07.29.2015	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement in response to the Department of Defense (DoD) Report on the National Implications of Climate Change: “Today’s report from the Defense Department is another emphatic statement that climate change is not only real, but is a national security threat," said Rep. Don Beyer. "Sea level rise, drought and severe weather, natural disasters, food insecurity, and competition for scarce resources jeopardize our security, here and abroad. Unless we commit now to addressing this problem, we risk catalyzing conflict and adding to instability around the globe. The DoD recognizes the severity of this crisis - it is time for Congress to do the same.” The report finds that climate change is a security risk, Pentagon officials said, because it degrades living conditions, human security and the ability of governments to meet the basic needs of their populations. The DoD found that “global climate change will have wide ranging implications for U.S. national security interests over the foreseeable future because it will aggravate existing problems.” Communities and states that already are fragile and have limited resources are significantly more vulnerable to disruption and far less likely to respond effectively and be resilient to new challenges, they added. “The Department of Defense's primary responsibility is to protect national security interests around the world,” officials said in a news release announcing the report’s submission. “This involves considering all aspects of the global security environment and planning appropriately for potential contingencies and the possibility of unexpected developments both in the near and the longer terms.” Find more information on the DoD’s report on the security implications of climate change here and here.
07.24.2015	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement commemorating the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), signed on July 26, 1990 by President George H.W. Bush. “The Americans With Disabilities Act was a monumental achievement to ensure workplace inclusion and an equal opportunity to succeed for our largest minority group. Nearly one in five Americans lives with a disability, including over 420,000 Virginians. “Our people are the greatest natural resource in our country. We cannot afford to block access to employment for almost twenty percent of our potential workforce. “As a small business owner, I understand the power of investing in your employees. Thanks to the ADA, the doors to America’s workplaces will always be open and accessible for all those who want to enter. I am proud to join my colleagues in celebrating 25 years of ADA success today.” Rep. Beyer also applauded Obama Administration efforts to encourage disability hires by federal contractors in its revised Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The new regulations prohibit employment discrimination against individuals based on disability by federal contractors and subcontractors. It also requires that federal contractors and subcontractors take affirmative action to recruit, employ, train, and promote qualified individuals with disabilities. “Persistent unemployment in the disabled community is dismaying. President Obama is right to use the federal government’s capacity to promote change through his Section 503 proposal to encourage disability hiring and prohibit discrimination at our federal contractors and subcontractors. A number of these firms call Northern Virginia home and I look forward to seeing these proposals implemented,” said Rep. Beyer. Rep. Beyer toured Northrop Grumman’s Information Systems Sector Headquarters with United States Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez this week to discuss the new Section 503 rules and highlight best workplace practices to accommodate people with disabilities. “A quarter century after its passage, the Americans with Disabilities Act remains one of the most far-reaching and ground-breaking civil rights laws in American history. The ADA has opened doors for millions and revolutionized the way society thinks about people with disabilities. People with disabilities can work and want to work, just like everyone else. Employers like Northrop Grumman are recognizing that recruiting workers with disabilities is good for the individual employee, good for the company bottom line, and good for the strength of the national economy,” said Secretary Perez.
07.14.2015	Congressman Don Beyer, former Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein, applauded the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action negotiated by the Obama Administration's and the P5+1 Group with Iran over its nuclear program: “This is an historic accomplishment for President Obama, Secretary Kerry, the American negotiators, and the diplomatic process to prevent Iran’s nuclear ambitions," said Rep. Beyer. "I commend our diplomats for skillfully averting a global showdown and blocking Iran’s efforts to obtain the bomb." Today’s deal, announced by Secretary Kerry this morning, is in line with the April 2nd framework agreed to in Lausanne and imposes significant obstacles blocking Iran’s path to a nuclear weapon in exchange for sanctions relief, dependent on critical nonproliferation commitments. Beyer continued: "We cannot allow a nuclear Iran and this deal will serve as a lasting deterrent to keep the United States out of another devastating war in the Middle East. Now I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure this deal goes forward unhindered.” As Ambassador to Switzerland, Rep. Beyer hosted negotiations between Iran and the P5+1 countries and Germany in Switzerland, including the meeting in November 2013 during which the six countries concluded the primary agreement with Iran, known as the Joint Plan of Action (JPOA).
07.10.2015	Congressman Don Beyer expressed disappointment with H.R. 5, the reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), that passed the House of Representatives today with on a partisan vote of 218-213. “This bill undermines federal support for students who need it, reduces the number of teachers across the country, and weakens funding for critical school programs,” said Rep. Beyer. “We must do better than this to bridge the inequality gap and produce the highly educated students the global 21st century economy demands; otherwise we risk being left behind.” House Democrats introduced their own ESEA reauthorization as a substitute amendment to H.R. 5, which included Rep. Beyer’s Keeping All Students Safe Act. Beyer’s legislation established minimum safety standards in schools similar to protections already in place in hospitals and non-medical community-based facilities. His legislation was included as part of the Democrats’ Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization proposal, which has been offered as a substitute amendment to H.R. 5, the Republican rewrite of ESEA. The substitute amendment was defeated in a partisan vote of 187-244. Click here to learn more about The Keeping All Students Safe Act.
07.09.2015	Congressman Don Beyer released the following statement expressing his shock at news that the personal data of nearly 21.5 million past and present federal employees and contractors was exposed in a breach of Office of Personnel Management (OPM) records. “This is disturbing news, both in terms of our government’s IT failure and that tens of millions of Americans lost the privacy of their personal data,” said Rep. Beyer. “We must and we will do better, and I will work closely with the Office of Personnel Management and others to ensure that improvements are rapid and deep.” Rep. Beyer’s Northern Virginia Congressional District is home to nearly 77,000 federal employees. As Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology’s (SST) Subcommittee on Oversight, Rep. Beyer called for a hearing, held yesterday, where he expressed his concerns, stating, “the personal and professional impact of the OPM breach on our already underpaid, underappreciated, and overworked federal employees cannot be overstated. We must do whatever is necessary to protect our civil servants and the work they are committed to.” More about the OPM hack – including resources for those affected – can be found here.
07.08.2015	Congressman Don Beyer, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology’s (SST) Subcommittee on Oversight, questioned witnesses today at a joint Subcommittee hearing on the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) federal employee data breach. “The personal and professional impact of the OPM breach on our already underpaid, underappreciated, and overworked federal employees cannot be overstated. We must do whatever is necessary to protect our civil servants and the work they are committed to,” said Rep. Beyer. “After today’s hearing, I feel more confident that OPM officials know the steps they must take to fix weaknesses in our cyber infrastructure and address the multitude of online threats lurking in cyberspace – a critical issue for both the federal government and the private sector.” Witnesses at the “Is the OPM Data Breach the Tip of the Iceberg?” hearing included Michael Esser, Assistant Inspector General for Audits at OPM, Gregory Wilshusen, Director of Information Security Issues at U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), and Dr. Charles Romine, Director of Information Technology Laboratory at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Rep. Beyer’s Northern Virginia Congressional District is home to nearly 77,000 federal employees. Rep. Beyer called for this hearing last month following news of the OPM attack. His SST Oversight Subcommittee oversees the National Institutes on Standards and Technology (NIST), the Commerce Department agency responsible for setting information security standards for civilian agencies. The letter Rep. Beyer sent to SST Chairman Lamar Smith requesting the hearing can be found here.
07.02.2015	Congressman Don Beyer reacted harshly to news that the CEOs of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would receive $4 million salaries, far above the $600,000 cap imposed on the lending giants after they were bailed out by the federal government: "It is inexplicable that the government backed Fannie and Freddie want to raise their CEOs pay less than a decade after American taxpayers were forced to bail them out. These enterprises exist to streamline home ownership for Americans by broadening the mortgage market, not to fatten their executives’ wallets. Fannie and Freddie need to focus on the secondary mortgage market to continue driving our housing market, not their executive compensation."
07.01.2015	Congressman Don Beyer, former United States Ambassador to Switzerland and Lichtenstein, released the following statement after President Obama announced that Cuba and the United States will open embassies in Washington and Havana after more than 50 years of diplomatic isolation: "I have long looked forward to the day we reestablish diplomatic relations with Cuba. As we see in American relationships around the world, we can learn to work together, while still maintaining our criticisms of human rights abuses, recognized freedoms, and even forms of government. “Cuba and the United States have been estranged long enough. “Our policy of forced isolation has not brought regime change, but only reinforced generations of needless suffering brought on by the Castro government. As Cuba slowly moves toward a market economy, and slowly expands the freedoms of its citizens, we must do all we can to strengthen and reinforce such positive movement. I visited Havana last month, and the impacts of reopening US/Cuba relations are already apparent. “I support the President's plan and welcome the establishment of embassies, both here and in Havana." Rep. Beyer visited Cuba from May 27 – 31 with the Center for Democracy in the Americas.
06.30.2015	Congressman Don Beyer offered his support today for President Obama’s proposal to extend overtime pay for nearly 5 million workers. "This is a crucial step for millions of middle class American families," said Rep. Don Beyer. "Working Americans suffering from wage stagnation and income inequality are struggling to put food on the table and gas in their car. President Obama's policy is welcome relief to hard working families who earned a raise." The proposal would nearly double the salary level under which workers qualify for overtime pay to $50,440 - ensuring that hard-working Americans are compensated fairly and have a chance to get ahead. In Virginia alone, more than 140,000 workers will be affected by this rule. Click here to learn more.
06.29.2015	Congressman Don Beyer expressed disappointment in the Supreme Court’s decision today in Michigan v. Environmental Protection Agency that rolled back Obama Administration environmental regulations for power plants: “Today’s Supreme Court’s decision in Michigan v. Environmental Protection Agency is disappointing. This ruling undermines President Obama’s work to strengthen public health and the environment by limiting the discharge of hazardous pollutants from power plants,” said Rep. Beyer. “Our environment is the lasting legacy we will leave to the generations who follow. I look forward to working with my colleagues and EPA Administrator McCarthy to craft a rule in line with today’s decision that protects the air we breathe.”
06.26.2015	Congressman Don Beyer applauded today’s Supreme Court ruling to require all states to recognize same-sex marriage as a Constitutionally protected right. “Future generations will look back on today’s Supreme Court decision to guarantee marriage equality nationwide as a watershed moment in American history,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Gay rights are human rights and today we have ensured that all Americans, regardless of their sexuality, have the right to share the rest of their lives with the person they love. I could not be prouder to stand with my LGBTQ constituents and celebrate this incredible moment.” The Court's 5 -4 ruling will ensure that legally married same-sex couples will be recognized by the federal government, bringing full marriage equality to the United States.
06.25.2015	Congressman Don Beyer applauded today’s Supreme Court decision to uphold federal insurance subsidies for residents of any state under President Obama’s Affordable Care Act. “The Supreme Court was right to uphold the Affordable Care Act's exchanges that provide quality, affordable healthcare to millions to Americans,” said Rep. Don Beyer. “Obamacare was landmark legislation, and in the five years since its enactment, has helped millions of middle-class Americans find and keep necessary health insurance. As I vowed to my constituents, I will work to uphold and strengthen the Affordable Care Act to protect patients and extend health insurance to our most vulnerable.”
06.24.2015	Congressman Don Beyer introduced the Keeping Guns from Criminals Act to close a loophole in federal law that allows straw purchasers and gun traffickers to funnel firearms to felons, juveniles, and other restricted purchasers with little to no risk of being prosecuted. “This is not a complicated issue: No one wants guns in the hands of dangerous criminals," said Rep. Beyer. "Time and again Congress fails to make meaningful progress to prevent gun violence in the face of overwhelming national demand to do so. The Keeping Guns from Criminals Act will ensure that only responsible gun owners are able to purchase a firearm. There is no reason for us to wait for another tragedy to make this commonsense idea a reality to protect our families.” "This common-sense bill encourages every gun seller--including unlicensed sellers doing business online or at gun shows--to do a Brady background check before selling a gun," said Brian Malte, Senior National Policy Director for the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence in Washington, D.C. "The consequences of providing a gun to a felon, fugitive, domestic abuser, or drug addict are deadly, and this common-sense bill will hold unlicensed sellers responsible for putting a gun into dangerous hands without doing a Brady background check." The Keeping Guns from Criminals Act would streamline law enforcement efforts to ensure safe firearms transfers between lawful owners. The Act would make it easier to prosecute private sellers who make irresponsible sales by requiring them to prove that the purchase was approved by the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) or that the purchaser ​held a concealed weapons permit in the state of transfer. “In the wake of yet another gun tragedy, what this nation needs is fresh thinking and a new approach to reforming our toothless and unenforceable gun laws,” said Sarah Trumble, Senior Policy Counsel at Third Way. “The Keeping Criminals from Guns Act is a smart, common sense way to prevent people from unintentionally selling their guns to criminals and to crack down on those who are taking advantage of existing loopholes in the law to intentionally arm those who are prohibited from buying or owning a gun. By encouraging gun owners to do the responsible thing and run a background check before selling their guns, especially if they are selling to a stranger, the bill will ensure that fewer guns fall into the hands of those who will use them to harm others.” NICS background checks are available through most Federal Firearm Licensees (FFL) for a nominal fee of around $30. According the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, there are nearly 130,000 FFLs nationwide.
06.24.2015	Congressman Don Beyer reaffirmed his support today for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Clean Power Plan and the Clean Air Act by voting against the Ratepayer Protection Act which would roll back the EPA’s commitment to cutting carbon emissions. “The EPA’s landmark proposal is designed to help cities and states cut the dangerous carbon emissions that threaten our health and our planet," said Rep. Beyer. "Instead of supporting this plan and working together to fight climate change in a meaningful way, today’s vote is an unprecedented attempt to ignore, deny, and obfuscate. We need to work together to tackle the global threat to future generations from climate change, not strip the EPA of the tools it needs to secure a cleaner world.” The Ratepayer Protection Act threatens to undermine public health protections in the Clean Air Act and would give states an unprecedented ability to opt out of EPA protection standards. Further, it prematurely attacks the Clean Power Plan that has not yet been finalized.
06.23.2015	June 23, 2015 (Washington, DC) - Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congresswoman Martha McSally (R-AZ) were joined today by Representatives Heck (R-NV) and Cárdenas (D-CA) to introduce the Humane Cosmetics Act to end the use of animals in cosmetics testing. "It is time for us to end the painful and completely unnecessary process of testing American cosmetics on animals. Safer, more cost effective, and completely humane alternatives already exist, and the United States is in no danger of losing its role as a competitive leader in the global cosmetics industry. Now we need to ensure our place as a moral leader,” said Rep. Beyer. “Subjecting animals to painful and inhumane testing is not who we are as a country,” said Rep. McSally. “There’s no reason to continue this cruel practice when we have cost-effective alternatives that can bring about safe products for consumers. As an animal lover and volunteer, I’m pleased to be introducing this legislation with my colleagues to take a stand against the inhumane treatment of animals.” John Paul DeJoria, Chief Executive and Co-Founder of Paul Mitchell® said, “Paul Mitchell is the first professional hair care brand to take a strong stance against animal testing…we just refused to do it. Since our beginning in 1980, we have been extremely proud to be cruelty free. We are honored to support the Humane Cosmetics Act to end cosmetic testing on animals in the United States.” The Humane Cosmetics Act would phase out the use of animal-based testing for American cosmetic products, ensuring that only safe products, tested with cutting-edge technology, enter the American cosmetics market, and would eventually prohibit the sale of any cosmetics tested on animals overseas. “Cosmetic animal testing is inhumane and unnecessary,” Rep. Joe Heck said. “It is our obligation to pass this bipartisan legislation and protect the welfare of helpless animals. Countries across the world began banning animal testing years ago and it’s time for the United States to join them.” “Throughout my career in both the California State Legislature and in the Los Angeles City Council I have been a strong supporter of animal rights, and I will continue the fights I have been proud to lead during my time in Washington. I am honored to introduce the Humane Cosmetics Act to continue to strengthen requirements in the cosmetics industry that will keep us on a path to securing the proper and humane treatment of animals,” said Rep. Cárdenas. Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The Humane Society of the United States, said, “Given the ready availability of alternatives, there is no compelling reason to continue using outdated animal testing methods that cause tremendous animal suffering. So many companies are already using non-animal tests for shampoos, makeups and other products sold around the world, and the United States can help accelerate that trend.” “We are delighted that this landmark bill has been introduced. The European Union has proven it is possible to produce safe and humane cosmetics without using animals and has led to a global trend with countries around the world moving away from animal testing. This bill will help the United States keep up with this global progress,” said Michelle Thew, Chief Executive Cruelty Free International. "Animal testing for cosmetic products is quickly becoming a relic of the past now that we have more reliable, cost-effective, and technologically advanced methods at our disposal. There is no need to subject millions of animals each year – most of whom are not even covered by the Animal Welfare Act – to inhumane experiments in order to test the safety of cosmetics. If the U.S. is to remain at the forefront of scientific and technological advances, then it is imperative that Congress pass this legislation,” said Cathy Liss, President, Animal Welfare Institute. In addition to being inhumane, animal-based cosmetics testing can fail to accurately predict safety for humans. The Humane Cosmetics Act would match U.S. law to the European Union, Israel, and India, ensuring that the American cosmetics industry can remain competitive in a changing global market, which increasingly bans the use of animals. Canadian Senator Carolyn Stewart Olsen introduced the Cruelty-Free Cosmetics Act this week, in partnership with the #BeCrueltyFree campaign to ban animal testing for cosmetics in Canada. For a PDF of the bill text, click HERE.
06.22.2015	Congressman Don Beyer, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology’s Subcommittee on Oversight, called for a Subcommittee hearing on the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) federal employee data breach in a letter to Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX) today. “More than two and a half weeks after the public learned of the attack, we still don’t have answers to many simple questions which are critical to federal employees and our national security,” said Rep. Beyer. “My constituents are angry and scared, and rightly so. Every one of the current and former federal employees impacted by this breach has a right to know what happened to their personal data.” Rep. Beyer’s Subcommittee oversees the National Institutes on Standards and Technology (NIST), the Commerce Department agency responsible for setting information security standards for civilian agencies. His Northern Virginia Congressional District is home to nearly 77,000 federal employees. The full text of the letter follows: June 22, 2015 Hon. Lamar Smith House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Chairman 2321 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Mr. Chairman, As you know, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) was the target of a massive cybersecurity attack leading to the theft of millions of current and former federal employee’s personal information. Information that was stolen appears to include the classified security clearance data for employees holding positions in the intelligence community and the military. I am outraged that this happened, and I believe that the Congress should take all reasonable steps to both understand how this could have happened and support the changes necessary to ensure that nothing like it ever happens again. I believe the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology can play a constructive role in this effort. Our jurisdiction over the National Institutes on Standards and Technology (NIST), which has a key role in setting information security standards for civilian agencies, gives us ample scope to begin asking whether NIST should play a more expansive role in helping the Federal government do better moving forward. Having NIST appear before the Committee to explain their progress in putting Federal Information Security Management Act standards in place, and what more NIST might do to identify agencies that have failed to comply with such standards and help insure that they do would be a positive step. I am also very disturbed at reports that contractors working on the OPM IT system included foreign nationals, including individuals holding passports issued by the People’s Republic of China.[1] One report alleges that a contractor from Argentina and another from China were working remotely from their home country and had system administrator root access permissions to OPM’s system. Every agency of the government relies on contract employees to carry out IT work to keep our systems working. I would encourage the Committee to look more closely at the reliance on foreign nationals and whether this is done in an appropriate way. Finally, I believe the Committee should hear from a witness who can articulate the concerns of current and retired Federal employees about what the government might do to protect the privacy and safety of these victims. I have heard from many of my constituents of problems with the CSID website, including glitches and hours long waits for assistance. Someone from an organization like the American Federation of Government Employees could best articulate the kinds of dangers and concerns implicit in the OPM breach as well as addressing concerns regarding the speed and thoroughness of notifications and support in the weeks following the breach. Looking at the range of issues before the Congress, I believe the Committee could make a productive contribution to discussions on how to improve Federal cybersecurity by holding a hearing that touches on the matters I listed above. Please feel free to contact me if you wish to discuss this request. Sincerely, ___________________ Donald S. Beyer Jr. Ranking Member, Oversight Subcommittee Science, Space, and Technology CC: Hon. Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member, Committee on Science, Space, and Technology Hon. Barry Loudermilk, Chairman, Subcommittee on Oversight, Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
06.11.2015	Congressman Don Beyer, member of the House Committee on Natural Resources, offered two amendments at today’s committee debate on H.R. 2295, the National Energy Security Corridors Act. The amendments would keep Congress’ original intent of exempting National Parks and Trails from the development of pipelines. "Lowering heating and electric bills for middle class American families is always a good thing. But we must do so by using safe, environmentally responsible practices, and not by putting pipelines up in people’s backyards or destroying our protected lands and trails. Our national parks were established for a reason – to protect and preserve the land for future generations," said Rep. Don Beyer. Beyer’s amendments to the National Energy Security Corridors Act would prevent the Secretary of the Interior from granting right-of-way permits to natural gas pipelines in National Park Service lands and would ensure responsible safety and environmental procedures are followed when putting natural gas corridors on federal lands in eastern states.
06.05.2015	Congressman Don Beyer today urged the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to take all steps necessary to protect current and former federal employee data and help any federal workers take necessary precautionary measures in wake of news that hackers had compromised OPM data in December 2014. “It is shocking to hear that four million public servants had their personal financial information exposed and OPM went months without alerting them. Our federal workforce keeps the country running; their personal information should be treated with the utmost importance and security,” said Rep. Beyer. “OPM needs to do what they should have done weeks ago and personally contact each current and former employee impacted and provide all of their resources to help our civil servants deal with this intrusion. My office has reached out to with OPM and is ready to help the 77,000 federal employees in the 8th District navigate this process.” OPM first learned of the data breach in April after implementing new cybersecurity procedures. Federal employees were only alerted this week that their valuable personal financial data may be at risk. Federal employees can learn more at: http://goo.gl/w8zIEC
06.04.2015	Congressman Don Beyer made the following statement this morning regarding H.R. 2577, the funding bill for the Department of Transportation under consideration in the House, which would cut Metro funding by $50 million: “We saw earlier this week at Memorial Bridge what happens when Congress abdicates its responsibility to fund our nation’s infrastructure,” said Rep. Beyer. “Now is not the time to back out of our commitment to the national capital metro system. For the safety of all the thousands of tourists, commuters, and federal employees that ride it every day, Metro has to improve. Bleeding the system dry with shortsighted reckless funding cuts is no way to do that.” Beyer joined Reps. Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Steny Hoyer (MD-5), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), John Sarbanes (MD-3), John Delaney (MD-6), and Barbara Comstock (VA-10): “We are deeply disappointed that the House of Representatives has chosen to cut $50 million from Metro and not fulfill the long-standing federal commitment critical to rider safety improvements. “Reducing this funding breaks the 10-year federal commitment and jeopardizes the successful local, state and federal partnership. Millions of Americans – not just from the DC region, but from across the nation – depend on Metro, which is why Congress and the federal government have a responsibility to the operation, oversight, and safety of the system. “We will work with our House and Senate colleagues to restore this vital funding for Metro safety upgrades as the appropriations process moves forward.” The regional delegation jointly offered an amendment to restore full funding to Washington’s Metro system, but it was ruled out of order during debate on the House floor Wednesday night.
06.01.2015	Congressman Don Beyer was joined by U.S. Senator Tim Kaine, Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton, National Park Service Director Jonathan B. Jarvis, U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx, and U.S. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell at a press conference at Arlington Memorial Bridge to highlight the neglected condition of the bridge and the critical need for Congress to act on infrastructure improvements. Rep. Beyer delivered the following remarks: “Please, look at this bridge. Two lanes closed on one of the most important entrances to our nation's capital. We already have the worst traffic congestion in the country, and now this. “This is not just the symbol, but the reality, of failed leadership. The United States in the richest country in the history of mankind. We’re the democratic leader, the military leader, the human rights leader, the financial leader, the education leader of all the world. Why, oh why, can we not be the investment leader? The country who invests in our infrastructure today, and for our children and grandchildren. “I’d like to thank the National Park Service and the Federal Highway Administration for their vigilance and for their ensuring the safety of the thousands of commuters and tourists who travel the Arlington Memorial Bridge every day. “The precautionary measures in place today ensure the bridge is safe to travel and we are hopeful these actions will help extend the life of the bridge while emergency repairs are made. “I would also like to thank Secretary Jewell, Secretary Foxx, Senator Kaine, Congresswoman Norton, and Director Jarvis for being here today to highlight the declining condition of our transportation infrastructure. While Memorial Bridge is a powerful illustration of that, it is only one of nearly 70,000 bridges in the U.S. deemed structurally deficient. “Most of us here know the Memorial Bridge was built to symbolize the coming together and reunification of a fractured nation following the civil war. It connects the North with the South, and links the memorial built to honor Lincoln with Arlington House – the former home of Robert E. Lee. Today, unfortunately, it also symbolizes the neglect of our nation’s transportation infrastructure. “For far too long we have avoided having an open and innovative discussion of how to address the construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of our country’s deteriorating transportation system. “There is no question that the current system is as broken as the bridge behind me.” Earlier this month a single lane of Memorial Bridge was closed after an area of corrosion was discovered in the “bascule” portion of its undercarriage. This week the National Park Service announced that it will close a second lane of traffic on the bridge, which stretches from Arlington National Cemetery to the Lincoln Memorial and is a major artery across the Potomac. Nearly 68,000 vehicles cross the 83-year-old bridge on a typical work day. These closures are already having a dramatic impact on the region’s rush hour. The cost to fully repair the bridge is estimated at more than $250 million.
05.28.2015	Senator Mark Warner (VA), Senator Tim Kaine (VA), Delegate Eleanor Holmes-Norton (DC) and Congressman Don Beyer (VA-8) called for stronger federal infrastructure investment, citing the closure of yet a second lane on the iconic and congested Arlington Memorial Bridge as the latest evidence of federal neglect. "There is nothing more emblematic of Congress’ failure to invest in our nation’s infrastructure than the bridge that brings people into our nation’s capital, a national memorial, falling apart. Memorial Bridge has already been labeled ‘structurally deficient’ and one lane was closed just last week due to safety and infrastructure concerns. Today, we have news that another lane will be shut down. It’s time for Congress to stop kicking the can down the road and pass a federal transportation bill to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure, starting right here in DC,” said Rep. Beyer. The National Park Service (NPS) announced today that it will close a second lane of traffic on the bridge, which stretches from Arlington National Cemetery to the Lincoln Memorial and is a major artery across the Potomac. The rush hour effects of the six-month closures will be dramatic. “Unlike other infrastructure, NPS roads and bridges like the Arlington Memorial Bridge are 100 percent funded by the federal government, and there are almost no alternative sources of funds for maintenance and improvements other than federal funds. With a cost of up to $250 million to replace the Memorial Bridge, it is no wonder that NPS is unable to do this work when it only receives $15 to $20 million for its transportation projects in the National Capital Region and only $240 for the entire nation. Our region must offer leadership and work with Members of Congress as far away as the western states that are also deeply affected. Beginning with our region, we must create a coalition of Members of the House and Senate determined to begin the uphill climb of rescuing priceless and essential federal assets like the Memorial Bridge that bring millions to the states by providing everything from workplace corridors to tourist sites,” said Del. Norton. Nearly 68,000 vehicles cross the 83-year-old bridge on a typical work day. The cost to fully repair the bridge is estimated at more than $250 million over several months. Memorial Bridge is just one of more than 70,000 US bridges deemed “structurally deficient.” "Today's announcement that we have to close yet another lane of the Memorial Bridge highlights the decrepit state of our infrastructure," said Senator Kaine. "This additional lane closure will cause unbearable congestion and delays for the approximately 68,000 drivers who use the Memorial Bridge to travel between Virginia and Washington every day. Today's frustrating news represents a nationwide issue. It's estimated that there are 4,800 structurally deficient or functionally obsolete bridges in Virginia alone. It's time to stop kicking the can down the road and address our nation’s crumbling infrastructure by passing a bipartisan, long-term transportation bill." “How can Congress fail to act while the Memorial Bridge – which is not only a vital artery for local commuters, but also the entrance to our nation’s capital ­– is literally falling apart? This is not just embarrassing – it’s outrageous,” said Sen. Warner. “We have to get serious about fixing and upgrading our roads, bridges, ports and other infrastructure. Until that happens, Virginia commuters will be stuck sitting in even more traffic – and crumbling and inefficient infrastructure will remain a serious drag on our economic growth.” Senator Kaine, Del. Norton, and Rep. Beyer will join NPS Director Jon Jarvis to host a press conference at Memorial Bridge following Monday morning’s rush hour at 12:00 pm. More details to follow.
05.27.2015	Congressman Don Beyer applauded the final "Waters of the United States" rule announced today by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to update and clarify the protections offered by the 1972 Clean Water Act. “This is such an important step toward fully protecting the streams and wetlands most vulnerable to pollution and destruction,” said Rep. Beyer. “Right now, nearly one in three Americans get their drinking water from unprotected seasonal rivers, lakes, and streams. The Waters of the U.S. Rule is vital to waterways that we depend on for our health and economic security.” An estimated 117 million Americans rely on headwater or seasonal streams for their water needs. Major economic sectors, including manufacturing, farming, ranching, tourism, and recreation also depend on clean water. Currently, only major bodies of water are protected by the Clean Water Act, leaving the smaller streams and headwaters potentially unregulated and at risk of exposure to pollutants. The updated rule will ensure that these smaller bodies and sources of water are protected.
05.21.2015	Congressman Don Beyer joined Maryland Congressman Chris Van Hollen today to introduce the State and Local Predatory Towing Enforcement Act to crack down on predatory towing practices that leave consumers with costly bills and no recourse for overcharges and unfair treatment. “Unfair and predatory towing practices take money out of our constituents’ wallets and strain their budgets,” said Rep. Beyer. “I am proud to join Rep. Van Hollen to provide our state and local governments with the authority they need to properly regulate this industry with common sense, consumer friendly towing protections.” “Victims of predatory towing face real economic hardship that has a negative impact on their families and communities. For too long, victims have not had a mechanism to stand up for their rights as consumers,” said Rep. Van Hollen. “This legislation will protect consumers by closing the loophole that allows predatory towing practices to go unpunished.” “We thank Representative Beyer and Representative Van Hollen for their attention to this issue important to residents and visitors of Arlington County,” stated Arlington County Board Member Jay Fisette. “While the United States Supreme Court has affirmed state and local regulation of non-consent towing services, enactment of this bill would further ensure final and clear authority to Arlington County and other local governments as we work to balance the needs and rights of private property owners and consumers – in this case vehicle owners.” “Predatory towing is generally the largest single category of complaints we receive every month,” said Eric Friedman, Director of the Montgomery County Office of Consumer Protection. “We applaud Congressman Van Hollen and Congressman Beyer for introducing legislation to remedy any federal preemption loophole and to ensure that states and localities have the ability to limit overly aggressive towing practices.” Federal law currently limits state and local regulation of the towing industry, and the federal regulatory body that oversaw the industry was eliminated in 1995. With confusing restrictions and conflicting court rulings, no level of government has been able to adequately regulate the towing industry, leading to major consumer abuses by some unscrupulous towing companies. The State and Local Predatory Towing Enforcement Act would restore state and local governments’ ability to end predatory practices in the tow truck industry.
05.20.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer's Science Prize Competition Act, H.R. 1162, passed the House with bipartisan support last night. The bill will encourage federal agencies to use prize competitions to incentivize innovative scientific research and development. “It is thrilling to pass my first bill, especially with support from both sides of the aisle. Prize competitions can be the catalyst for the new and unorthodox solutions that have always been at the heart of our greatest American achievements,” said Rep. Beyer. “The bipartisan Science Prize Competition Act is a victory for American innovation, emerging entrepreneurs, STEM scholars, and our shared future,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi said. “Thanks to Congressman Beyer’s forward-looking leadership, we can inspire a new generation of innovators, and cultivate the research and development needed to meet the challenges of the 21st century.” “One hundred years ago, the Orteig Prize spurred Charles Lindbergh’s first transatlantic flight. I cannot help but wonder how different the world one hundred years from now might be because of a prize offered today. I truly hope this bill will support our federal agencies facilitate future successes in ways we cannot possibly imagine,” Beyer added. “I congratulate Rep. Beyer on passage of his Science Prize Competitions Act, which received support from both sides of the aisle today, and I thank him for his commitment to research and innovation,” said House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer. Prize competitions date back more than 300 years and have proven valuable to accelerating technological development in space exploration, public health, automobiles, and more. Their goal is to incentivize problem solving and reward cash prizes for the most successful solution, often from new and unorthodox ideas or approaches. The 2010 COMPETES Reauthorization granted all federal agencies the authority to hold prize competitions as an incentive for scientific and technological innovations. However, different interpretations of the 2010 authority across different agencies created unnecessary hurdles to several agencies’ ability to make full use of prizes to promote innovation. "Incentivized prize competitions are a powerful tool for change,” said Peter Diamandis, Chairman and CEO of XPRIZE. "We applaud the leadership of Congressmen Beyer and Johnson for working in a bipartisan way to introduce and bring this bill across the finish line in the House of Representatives. If made law, the bill will send a signal to federal agencies, the private sector and the innovation community that prizes are an economically efficient way for the Federal government to incentivize innovation, catalyze industries and create solutions to some of our nation's biggest problems.” XPRIZE is a non-profit organization founded by Mr. Diamandis in 1995 that has designed and managed high-profile public prize competitions that motivate individuals, companies and organizations across all disciplines to develop innovative ideas and technologies that help solve the grand challenges that restrict humanity’s progress. They have partnered with NASA, the Department of Energy, and the Department of Transportation. To learn more about the Science Prize Competition Act, click here. To learn more about current federal prize competitions being offered, go to Challenge.gov.
05.19.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, a member of the Joint Economic Committee (JEC), held a press conference this morning to introduce the Gender Diversity Investment Act, pioneering legislation designed to allow federal workers to choose to invest in businesses that have women in leadership. The Gender Diversity Investment Act would provide federal employees the freedom and flexibility to invest their retirement savings through the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) in companies that demonstrate a strong commitment to gender diversity and women’s economic empowerment. “This legislation would provide federal workers the opportunity to invest their retirement savings in companies that have made a commitment to gender diversity at the highest levels," said Rep. Beyer. "It makes good business sense. Studies show companies that have women in leadership outperform companies that do not. Companies that value the talents, ideas, and contributions women bring to corporate leadership end up having better returns on investment than those that ignore half the talent pool." The Gender Diversity Investment Act provides a Gender Equality-Focused Stock Index under the TSP that focuses on gender diversity, allowing Federal employees to invest in companies with proven track records of empowering women. "This legislation does not require anything, nor does it cost anything. It simply lets workers decide how they want to invest," Beyer added. "As a small business owner, I am concerned about the lack of women on leadership teams at American companies despite clear evidence that this leaves us at an economic disadvantage." Studies by Credit Suisse, McKinsey and Pepperdine all show the bottom line benefits of women in leadership. Research tells us that companies with more women in senior management and leadership roles outperform companies that fail to utilize women leaders. It tells us gender enlightened companies also scored higher when being evaluated on organization, leadership, accountability and innovation. Investing in companies with proven histories of empowering women has emerged as a successful strategy for many investors. "Let's allow federal workers to vote with their retirement savings. The studies are clear: companies should invest in women in leadership, if they don't, then federal workers can choose to invest in companies that do," Beyer concluded. According to a 2015 study by Catalyst, women hold less than 20 percent of the board seats of U.S. companies on the S&P. However, the problem is even worse locally. According to a study from the Northern Virginia based organization Women In Technology (WIT), women hold only 12.5 percent of board positions at the 78 Maryland-based public companies, 11.2 percent at the 110 Virginia-based public companies and 13.5 percent at the 15 Washington D.C.-based companies. More than 30 percent of the 208 publicly traded companies in Washington, D.C. and Virginia have zero women on their corporate boards. WIT has since initiated the "Leadership Foundry," a training and mentoring program designed for senior-level female executives who are interested in joining a corporate board of directors. Julie Bloecher, Chair of Women in Technology's "The Leadership Foundry" and member of Rep. Beyer’s Executive Women's Council said, “The message is clear: gender diversity is good business. Yet our region – even with its huge pool of qualified women – underperforms when it comes to gender diversity at the board level. By providing businesses with an incentive to embrace gender diversity, Representative Beyer’s bill is a positive step towards realizing our region’s economic potential." After introducing the Gender Diversity Investment Act, Beyer convened the first meeting of his newly-formed Executive Women's Council to discuss the scarcity of women on corporate boards, nationally and in the Metropolitan Washington region; an issue the Gender Diversity Act hopes to correct. The Executive Women’s Council is a network of women primarily in executive and Board positions with large and medium sized private and publicly traded companies which Rep. Beyer has gathered to inform his participation in crafting national economic policy. It also includes representatives of international, national and local organizations promoting women on boards: GlobeWomen, International Women’s Forum, The 30 Percent Club, and The Leadership Foundry. This was the first of Beyer's events designed to focus on women's economic empowerment. This Fall he will host a region-wide Women's Economic Empowerment Conference focusing on jobs, wages, professional development, mentoring and contracting.
05.15.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, released the following statement today voicing his disappointment with harmful riders attached to the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act: “I appreciate the hard work of the House Armed Services Committee to reach President Obama’s budget request and lift the sequester for the Department of Defense. Our Defense Department should receive the robust funding the President has called for; it is vital to our national security, the economic health of our country, and Northern Virginia in particular. “But I cannot in good conscience support a bill that prohibits talented young people from enlisting in our armed services; secures the indefinite extension of the detention center at Guantanamo Bay; militarizes our border; walks back attempts to pursue nuclear disarmament; uses a defense bill to attack the Endangered Species Act; and leaves the harmful Budget Control Act in place for the rest of our federal programs,” said Rep Beyer.
05.13.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer objected to the House Appropriations Committee vote today to approve the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) spending bill that would cut a full third of Washington Metro Area Transit Authority’s (WMATA) funding. “We have already seen the tragic consequences of continuing to bleed the Metro system dry. Just this week we saw another arcing incident which, while thankfully no one was injured, left thousands of riders, shaken, stranded, and late for work. It is irresponsible for Congress to back out of its commitment to WMATA and will only serve to shift a greater burden to Virginia and Maryland’s local governments. I hope my colleagues will join me in restoring our full commitment to the nation’s Metro system,” Beyer said. Congress approved the Rail Safety Improvement Act in 2008 to provide WMATA with $1.5 billion over ten years at a rate of $150 million per year to make up for years of unfunded maintenance needs. Today’s vote advances a T-HUD bill that only funds two thirds of the federal commitment to Metro. “Congress has a responsibility to the national capital region to honor its commitment to the Metro system,” said Rep. Beyer. “In order to make the upgrades, new investment, and renovations needed to ensure rider safety on our trains full funding is critical. I appreciate the Committee’s recognition of the importance of this money, but their budget falls far short of compact Congress has made with the Washington Metro area.” The Appropriations bill will now head to debate on the House floor.
05.12.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, who has over 40 years of experience running a small business, hosted a Small Business Procurement Conference this morning in collaboration with George Mason University’s Procurement Technical Assistance Program. The Conference focused on federal government procurement and providing guidance to small businesses hoping to work with the federal government. "Among my top priorities in Congress is building a new American economy - doing all I can to make the 21st century the second American century," said Rep. Beyer. "Thanks to the incredible number of highly educated and skilled constituents, Northern Virginia has long been fertile ground for government contracting and grants awards, and the small businesses in the 8th ideal partners for the federal government." Nearly 100 people attended the program, which included remarks from the Congressman, small business owners, and representatives from federal contractors doing business in Northern Virginia, an update on the state of the region's economy, as well as a panel discussion on best practices for small businesses hoping to work with federal contractors. "Congressman Beyer’s Small Business Procurement Conference is a unique opportunity for entrepreneurs to get immediate access to contracting agencies as well as to information that will impact their business today," said Tara Palacios of Arlington Economic Development. "The most successful business owners are the ones who can participate in events such as this. We look forward to working with Congressman Beyer in building successful businesses in Northern Virginia." Beyer continued: "This month my family business will celebrate our 41st year in Northern Virginia. When you take into consideration the fact that more than half of all Americans either work for or own a small business, and small businesses create two out of three new jobs each year, it is easy to see why investing in our small businesses makes sense. I hope that this conference has given the participants if not all, then some of the tools they need to be successful." Joining Rep. Beyer, Ms. Palacios, and Ms. Urman at George Mason's Arlington Campus were Roy Luebke from GenEdge, Dr. Terry Clower, Sean Crean from the Small Business Administration and representatives from the Procurement Technical Assistance Program at George Mason University’s Mason Enterprise Center and representatives from BAE Systems, NASA, Department of Defense, Northrop Grumman, Boeing, Arlington Economic Development, Alexandria Small Business Development Center, National Science Foundation, GenEdge, Virginia Small Business Development Center, Community Business Partnership, and SAIC.
05.08.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, whose 8th District is home to Reagan National Airport, one of the busiest in the country, applauded the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)'s announcement today that it plans to conduct a multiyear study of the relationship between aircraft noise exposure and its effects on communities around airports. "I look forward to hearing what the FAA finds regarding aircraft noise and the impact it has on the communities surrounding airports," said Rep. Beyer. "National Airport in particular handles more and more flights every year and the uptick in noise in Northern Virginia’s backyards is clear. If National is selected, I know my team and everyone at Metropolitan Washington Airport Authority (MWAA) would be glad to work with the FAA on this very important issue." The FAA plans to contact residents of communities around 20 selected airports by mail and telephone to gauge public perceptions of aviation noise. The study, which will begin within the next two to three months and last for one year, will be the largest noise survey ever conducted within the United States. The FAA cannot disclose which communities will be contacted in order to preserve the scientific integrity of the study. “The FAA is sensitive to public concerns about aircraft noise. We understand the interest in expediting this research, and we will complete this work as quickly as possible,” said FAA Administrator Michael Huerta. “This Administration takes its responsibility to be responsive to communities’ concerns over air noise seriously. Our work is intended to give the public an opportunity to provide perspective and viewpoints on a very important issue.” If changes are warranted, the FAA will propose revised policy and related guidance and regulations, subject to interagency coordination, as well as public review and comment.
05.04.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer visited DaVita Dialysis Center of Arlington, VA this morning to meet patients and care givers and learn about the dialysis needs of the 8th District constituents. “Northern Virginia is home to some of the best dialysis facilities, nurses, and technicians in the country,” said Rep. Beyer. “It is encouraging to see the incredible care these patients are able to get right here in Arlington.” There are more than 400,000 patients receiving life-saving dialysis treatment three times a week. Nearly 90 percent of dialysis patients are on Medicare. DaVita Kidney Care runs four facilities in Virginia's 8th District, with more than 65 nurses, patient care technicians, dietitians, and social workers who provide treatment to over 300 patients. “I thank the health care team at DaVita for providing a valuable service to those living with kidney failure in our community. No family in the United States should face economic ruin because of a health crisis, or have to choose between a life-sustaining treatment like this and paying their rent for the month. I will continue to fight in Congress to make sure every Virginian has access to quality affordable healthcare,” Beyer added.
04.28.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, whose 8th District in Northern Virginia is home to the Silver, Orange, Blue, and Yellow lines, released the following statement on the proposal to cut $75 million from the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s (WMATA) funding in this year’s Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations bill. “This shortsighted plan will jeopardize rider safety, derail improvements to the system, and undermine WMATA’s ability to implement National Transportation Safety Board recommendations,” said Rep. Beyer. “Metro is the public transportation system for our nation’s capital. It shuttles thousands of federal employees to and from work every day and helps relieve congestion on our already overburdened roads. With increasing ridership, more stops, and critical safety improvements needed, we need to invest in Metro now more than ever.” The annual federal funding, matched by Virginia, DC, and Maryland, is part of the 10 year Capital Improvement Program intended to support infrastructure projects and preventative maintenance to enhance customer and employee safety. In exchange for funding, the federal government receives representation on WMATA's Board of Directors. Federal government employees comprise forty percent of peak Metro ridership, including Pentagon employees and others holding positions key to national security.
04.23.2015	With Virginia reporting the sixth most calls to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center in the nation, U.S. Representative Don Beyer applauded the Senate's passage of S.178, the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act today. "The Senate was right to stand up for the victims of human trafficking by unanimously passing this legislation," said Beyer. "This is not a problem we can continue to ignore; it affects our mothers, daughters, and sisters. Women and girls are targeted all across the country and it is time to do something about it." S.178 strengthens the ability of law enforcement to investigate trafficking, increases penalties for perpetrators, and creates a fund to support victims - focusing on pre-adolescent girls who are most often targeted. Funded by fines collected from trafficking offenders, victims would have increased access to health care as well as non-health care related services. Victims would also have access to abortions, in cases of rape. Beyer continued: "Sex trafficking is a terrible crime that we must commit to ending. In addition to investing in recovery efforts and punishing those responsible for these heinous acts, we need to work to expand economic opportunity in communities most at risk. This bill is a tremendous step forward, but we cannot ignore root causes that jeopardizes the safety of our family members.” To see the National Human Trafficking Resource Center report on hotspots, click here.
04.15.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, member of the Joint Economic Committee (JEC), released the following statement on the JEC's new report that African Americans continue to face economic challenges and are nearly three times as likely as white Americans to live in poverty. "This report documents persistent economic barriers African Americans face, even as the rest of the country recovers from the worst financial downturn since the Great Depression,” said Rep. Beyer “If we are to meet the challenge of the promise of equality in America we need to address these inequities in employment, income, wealth, housing and education through policies designed for inclusive prosperity. In our commitment to a new American economy, to inclusive prosperity that lifts up all Americans, let us be ever mindful of the decisions we make that can change the economic condition of black Americans for generations to come." Beyer joined Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Ranking Democrat on the JEC, and Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) at a press conference to discuss the report, which reveals that African Americans continue to face disproportionately high rates of poverty, unemployment and long-term unemployment as well as significantly lower incomes and slower wealth accumulation than white households. When examining various measures to determine economic well-being, the report finds black Americans lag far behind the white population. Included in the report’s key findings: · The median income of African American households is $34,600—nearly $24,000 less than the median income of white households ($58,300). · The median net worth of white households is 13 times the level for black households. · Black Americans are almost three times more likely to live in poverty than white Americans. · At 10.1 percent, the current unemployment rate for black Americans is double the rate for white Americans. · Black Americans currently face an unemployment rate that is higher than the national unemployment rate ever reached during the recent recession. Please find the full report here.
04.15.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer today will vote against H.R. 1563, the Federal Employee Tax Accountability Act, to prevent Congress from firing federal employees with unpaid tax obligations. “We must hold our civil servants to the highest standards. They have just as much an obligation as anyone else to responsibly pay their taxes on time and in full. But this legislation exaggerates the issue and then scapegoats the federal workforce,” said Rep. Beyer. In 2014 the tax delinquency rate for federal employees was at 3.12 percent, compared to 8.7 percent for the general public. “There are already procedures like wage garnishment in place to collect back taxes from the very few federal employees who are delinquent. Cutting off their income would not only make it less likely that the federal government will be able to collect the money they owe, but also punish a workforce already dealing with the consequences of wage stagnation and sequester,” Beyer added.
04.14.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer announced a planned series of events to support women in the workforce on this Equal Pay Day 2015, marking the point in the year women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid the previous year. "When we don't pay women the same as men we kill the golden goose. Women are a proven key to economic prosperity and families depend on women's wages," said Rep. Beyer. “Today I am announcing a series of events to not only work to rectify pay inequities -- but make sure our economy benefits from the wisdom and hard work of women employees." Beyer will convene women corporate leaders to hear a presentation by Women In Technology's (WIT) "Leadership Foundry" on how public companies in the Metropolitan Washington area compare to other regions by leveraging the benefits of women in leadership. The Leadership Foundry was created by WIT to assist more women to serve on corporate boards in the DC region. Beyer will also host a roundtable discussion the Private Equity Women Investment Network, a group of nationally recognized senior level women in private equity (pewin.org). The roundtable discussion will cover the viewpoints of women investors and a new market phenomenon called gender lens investing that's driving companies to improve gender balance in the workplace. Next fall Beyer will convene a region-wide Women's Economic Empowerment Conference focusing on jobs, wages, professional development, mentoring and contracting. “Women make up almost half of our workforce, are the primary breadwinners in forty percent of American households, and are raising more and more children alone as single moms. Yet throughout the country, it takes women at least four months of extra work every single year just to earn what her male coworkers make. These hard working women should not have to wait any longer. It is time for equal pay for equal work and I am committed to using my time in Congress working to promote women's economic empowerment to ensure inclusive prosperity for our middle class families," Beyer added. A working woman, making 77 percent of her male peers, must wait until April 14th to earn what a man made the previous year. Rep. Beyer joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro in reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act earlier this year. He is also a cosponsor of the Family and Medical Insurance Leave Act (FAMILY Act) to extend family leave to the private sector. In Virginia, women employed full time lose a combined total of $13,719,853,332 every year to the wage gap. According to the National Partnership for Women and Families, fair pay in Virginia would be enough for: · 94 weeks of food. · Seven months of mortgage and utility payments. · Ten more months of rent. · 3,465 additional gallons of gas. Beyer finished: “One of the simplest truisms I learned running my family’s business for the past 41 years has been that equal work deserves equal pay. This isn’t simply an issue of fairness, it’s about strengthening our middle class – putting food on the table, gas in the tank, and ensuring our moms, daughters, and sisters are not cheated out of their paychecks. Today I am announcing a series of events designed to not only work to rectify pay inequities but to make sure our economy benefits from the wisdom and hard work of women in the workforce." Please stay tuned for details and dates for these events.
04.13.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer joined Governor Terry McAuliffe, Reps. Gerry Connolly and Barbara Comstock, and local and state leaders to tour the Washington Metropolitan Airports Authority (WMATA) new 7000 series train cars made by Kawasaki: “These new cars are smarter, sleeker, safer, and far more energy efficient,” said Rep. Beyer. “They are better for the thousands of passengers who rely on the Metro system every day, and they are better for the environment, Northern Virginia, the Commonwealth, and the country. In business, we call that a win-win situation." The 7000 series Metro cars will begin operating on the Blue Line to offset increased demand created by the Silver Line opening last summer. The new cars provide a number of safety and convenience factors for riders and operators. WMATA plans to use the new cars to eventually phase out the older 1000 series Metro cars. Beyer added, “A commitment to improving public transit is a commitment to Northern Virginia’s families, and to creating the smart, sustainable growth, and economic stability that will drive the new American economy in our region." The cars were purchased as part of a $1.5 billion commitment from Congress through the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008.
04.07.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer released the following statement after signing on to an Amicus Brief in support of President Obama's appeal in the Fifth Circuit case of Texas v. United States: “I am proud to stand with the President and join this Brief. I fully support the President’s Executive Action on immigration – DAPA and an expanded DACA program are the best way to serve and support the new Americans who live, work, and pay taxes in the United States. While Congress continues to delay action on comprehensive immigration reform, these measures are a smart and effective step in the right directions as we work to create the new American economy. I hope that the Court will uphold the President's Action, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to fully implement it,” said Rep. Beyer. The full text of the Amicus Brief can be found here.
03.31.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer threw his support behind the White House’s formal announcement that the United States will offer a proposal to the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference that would curb domestic greenhouse gas emissions by up to 28 percent. “Global climate change is the existential crisis of our time. I am proud to see President Obama’s pledge that the United States will take a leading role on the international stage to protect our environment. Reducing carbon emissions is the best way to fight and reverse the threat human-fueled climate change poses around the world. This announcement demonstrates a real commitment to doing just that, and is a big step toward reaching a successful agreement at the COP21 conference,” said Rep. Beyer. The White House submitted the formal statement of its target, called an Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) this morning. The target is to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions by 26-28% below 2005 levels by 2025, and would roughly double the pace of carbon pollution reduction in the United States. To learn more about the President’s Pledge, click here.
03.27.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer commended the incredible career of Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) over eight terms in the United States Senate and his tenure as Majority Leader the past eight years: “Senator Reid has been a champion for progressive values for decades and a model elected official for generations of leaders to come. His role securing affordable quality healthcare for all Americans will be remembered by history as one of the greatest moral achievements of the early 21st century. I congratulate him on his years of service to the people of Nevada and our country and wish him the best of luck in retirement.”
03.27.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer joined community leaders this morning to urge eligible Virginians to use Virginia Free File and the IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) programs to save money at tax time. "I began by keeping the books at my family business 41 years ago. I know exactly how stressful tax season can be," said Rep. Beyer. "A majority of us do not have the resources to hire an accountant to make sure our families and businesses take advantage of every credit and deduction for which they are eligible. One of my favorite programs, the Earned Income Tax Credit, can help middle class families get up to $6,000 back from the IRS. Last year the average refund for those who claimed the Credit was $2,400. However, up to 25 percent of people who qualify for EITC do not claim it. That is money that can help many American families balance their budgets." Free File is a public-private partnership between the Internal Revenue Service and tax preparation software companies. Virginia is one of 20 states plus the District of Columbia that have formed state Free File programs, enabling taxpayers earning less than $60,000 to file both their federal and state tax return online for free. Beyer continued: "Nobody should miss out on the opportunity to get the full amount of their hard-earned tax refund. So I am quite grateful that all these great organizations are helping Northern Virginia taxpayers complete their tax returns. The Free File and VITA programs are excellent examples of how government, the private sector, and community groups can work together.” Rep. Beyer was joined by Greg Williams, the Director of Bailey's Community Center, Loren Johnson from the Internal Revenue Service, Roman Corpuz of Enterprise Development Group, Chris Long from the Computer & Communications Industry Association and Susan Mason from the Intuit Financial Freedom Foundation. Click to learn more about the Virginia Free File program, and the IRS Free File program.
03.26.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer released the following statement today on the House Democratic Budget: Last night the House passed the Republican budget. As anyone who has ever had to make payroll every week can tell you, budgets are critical tools that outline priorities and values. We need to draw a blueprint for progress and invest in working families. However, the House Republican budget jeopardizes our economic recovery and exposes middle class Americans to harmful cuts that only widen the inequality gap. We came to Congress to create opportunities for hard working Americans, not for special interests, and it is our job to ensure a secure financial future for all of our constituents, not just those with the deepest pockets. Disappointingly, the Republican budget targets our federal workforce. Federal employees deserve a budget that does not undermine our commitment to them or their contribution to the American economy. The House Republican proposal to cut nearly $300 billion in pay and benefits from an already strained federal workforce is simply unjust. These hard working civil servants have already lived through years of Congressionally-imposed wage stagnation, sequestration cuts, pay freezes, and an almost constant threat of government shutdown. We will not achieve a deficit free future by choosing tax cuts over jobs; it is simply unfair to balance the budget on the backs of federal employees. This week House Democrats introduced an alternative budget that strengthens our middle class families, improves our crumbling roads and bridges, and creates opportunities for success. I am proud to stand with my colleagues to support this budget that fairly compensates our federal workforce, invests in our infrastructure, and grows the middle class economy by helping Americans buy homes, send their kids to college, and retire with dignity.
03.25.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) today in reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation that would help close the wage gap between women and men working the same jobs. “After more than forty years in business, I can tell you that equal pay for equal work is the best way to strengthen our families, our middle class, and our economy,” said Rep. Beyer. “This is a simple bottom line issue. If you treat your employees well your business will thrive. It is time for us to ensure women in the workforce have the equal and full rights they are guaranteed – to treat them well, so that the American economy can thrive.” Women make up almost half of the American workforce. According to U.S. Census data, even though women are the sole or primary breadwinner in 40 percent of American households, full-time working women still earn an average of 77 cents to every dollar earned by men. Beyer continued: “We know that women’s economic empowerment fuels our economy and yet women continue to suffer due to a very real gender pay gap. That is unacceptable. Which is why I am so proud to be an original cosponsor on the Paycheck Fairness Act. Passing this bill will make American companies more competitive in a global marketplace, continue our middle class recovery, and – with 40 percent of American households depending on a woman's paycheck – this bill offers a critical solution to income inequality in America.” The Paycheck Fairness Act builds upon the landmark Equal Pay Act (1963) and the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act (2009) by closing loopholes that allow unfair pay practices to continue and strengthen the rights of employees to challenge pay discrimination in the workplace. The bill has been endorsed by President Obama, Lilly Ledbetter and a coalition of over 300 advocacy groups. Click here to learn more about the Paycheck Fairness Act.
03.25.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer applauded the U.S. Supreme Court decision to stand with former United Parcel Service (UPS) driver Peggy Young this morning, ruling that the company violated the Pregnancy Discrimination Act by forcing Mrs. Young to take unpaid leave rather than accommodating her pregnancy, as required by law. “Today’s Supreme Court decision is an important victory for Peggy Young, working women, and American families,” said Rep. Beyer. “No woman should ever be considered ‘too much of a liability’ to remain in the workforce simply because she is starting a family. Nor should any woman ever be forced to choose between her health and the financial security of her family. The Court was right today, but it is not the last step. We must work together to ensure that all expectant mothers are treated justly and that includes a full, fair, paid family leave policy.”” Beyer added: “This decision actually helps the economy. The robust participation of women has boosted our GDP and corporate productivity rates. The economic empowerment of women is a key to our economy’s growth and the success of American companies.” Click here to learn more about the Court’s decision.
03.23.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer joined Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia M. Burwell, along with local officials, leaders, and consumers in Arlington this morning to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. “Historians will one day write that the Affordable Care Act was the single most important act of moral leadership in the early 21st century,” said Rep. Beyer. “Emancipation, women’s suffrage, Social Security, the Affordable Care Act – each a bold move to expand upon the idea that all Americans have the equal right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. “But we still have more work to do. Especially in the Commonwealth of Virginia. There is no denying that we badly need Medicaid expansion. We are lucky to have a true champion, fighting the good fight in Richmond. Governor McAuliffe has been courageous and relentless – and one day soon he will prevail, and the amount of human suffering he will banish is almost beyond imagination.” Governor McAuliffe’s plan expands access to care, improve care for veterans and those with severe mental illness, and enhance value and innovation across our health system in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Healthy Virginia Plan provides health insurance to as many as 25,000 Virginians, however more than 400,000 Virginians will continue to be uninsured as long as Medicaid expansion is not passed through the General Assembly. Over 16 million Americans have gained quality, affordable health insurance since the ACA became law. More than 11 million Americans were able to sign up or re-enroll through the Marketplace during this year’s Open Enrollment. Nearly 80 percent of 2015 Marketplace customers using HealthCare.gov purchased coverage for $100 or less after tax credits.
03.18.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer applauded Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe and the Virginia General Assembly for outlawing the use of seclusion and restraint to discipline public school students. “Governor McAuliffe and the Virginia legislature are right: These dangerous techniques have no place in our schools,” said Rep. Beyer. “I worked to include a federal version of this bill in this month’s Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) so that these practices would cease beyond Virginia’s borders as well.” Beyer introduced H.R. 927, the Keeping All Students Safe Act, to establish minimum safety standards in schools similar to protections already in place in hospitals and non-medical community-based facilities. His legislation was included as part of the Democrats’ Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization proposal, which has been offered as a substitute amendment to H.R. 5, the Republican rewrite of ESEA. “Every student should feel safe in school, and every parent should send their child to school confident that these harmful practices aren’t used to deny educational opportunity,” said Ranking Member of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Rep. Bobby Scott (VA-03). “This is especially important for students with disabilities and students of color who, research shows, suffer when restraint and seclusion go unchecked. Since millions of students across the country still lack these basic protections, I have urged my colleagues in Congress to follow Virginia’s lead and enact the Keeping All Students Safe Act through the ESEA reauthorization. Democrats and Republicans must come together to protect all children in every state from abuse in our public schools.” Over 200 national, state, and local organizations support Beyer’s legislation, as well as 31 cosponsors. Department of Education statistics show that nearly 107,000 students were subject to physical restraint or isolated seclusion during the 2011-2012 school year. “I’m just very thankful Governor McAuliffe signed this law. Unregulated restraint and seclusion has no place in our classrooms and I am glad to know that other parents won’t have to live through this distress,” said Nadia Facey, an Arlington parent. Fewer than 20 states have laws on the books limiting the use of these harmful tactics, which are overwhelmingly used against minority or special needs students. Click here to learn more about The Keeping All Students Safe Act.
03.04.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer was appointed to the Joint Economic Committee by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi last night. “I am honored to have the chance to serve on the Joint Economic Committee. I hope to use my 40 years of experience running our family business as we fight for the rights of working families to create a new, sustainable American economy. It is time we give our families and women – who make up half of the workforce and are breadwinners in over 40% of American households – the support they need. Ensuring women’s success in the workforce is the best way to jumpstart the middle class economy,” said Rep. Beyer. “Congressman Beyer has been a champion for middle class families in his district right from day one,” said House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. “On the Joint Economic Committee, he will serve as a forceful and effective voice for bigger paychecks, better infrastructure, stronger education and greater opportunity as the bedrock of a bright future for our economy and our country.” Rep. Beyer was named alongside Rep. John Delaney (D-MD) and Rep. Alma Adams (D-NC). They join Ranking Member Carolyn Maloney (D-NY). The Joint Economic Committee is a bicameral Committee composed of ten members from the Senate and ten from the House of Representatives. There are ten Democrats and ten Republicans on the Committee. The main purpose of the Committee is to make a continuing study of matters relating to the US economy, hold hearings, perform research and advise Members of Congress. To learn more about the Joint Economic Committee, click here.
02.27.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer voted tonight for a Continuing Resolution to fund the Department of Homeland Security for seven days ahead of an expected vote next week to advance long term funding of the Department without anti-immigration provisions favored by House Republicans. “Tonight’s vote to provide a short term funding measure for the Department of Homeland Security presents our best opportunity to secure long term funding of DHS while keeping President Obama’s immigration reforms in place. Budgetary brinksmanship is no way to govern. It was irresponsible for House Republicans to jeopardize our national security and the livelihoods of thousands of federal employees in the name of a fruitless ideological agenda.”
02.25.2015	Yesterday Congressman Don Beyer introduced the bipartisan DHS Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act to ensure that all federal Department of Homeland Security employees receive retroactive pay in the event of a shutdown, regardless of furlough status. The National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU) came out in strong support of this proposal. President Colleen M. Kelley, National President of the NTEU, offered support for the bill stating, “NTEU appreciates Rep. Beyer taking the lead on this important legislation to protect hard working federal employees from another threat to their paycheck. It is unthinkable that once again, DHS employees are facing a shutdown. Congress should act quickly to avert the looming shutdown of Homeland Security and pass a full-year funding bill for the department as soon as possible.” NTEU is the nation’s largest independent federal-employee union, representing 150,000 employees in 31 agencies and departments. “I’m honored to have the support of NTEU and President Kelley. They recognize the important work our DHS employees do every day to protect our country and they understand the risks of playing political football with our safety and security. I look forward to working with the NTEU and other Members to minimize the harm done to our federal employees from these partisan fights,” said Rep. Beyer. In addition to NTEU, a number of lawmakers have joined as cosponsors in the hours since Rep. Beyer introduced his bipartisan proposal to protect federal paychecks. Reps. David Price (D-NC), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Mark Takai (D-HI), and Brad Ashford (D-NE) will be joining original co-sponsors Reps. Rob Wittman (R-VA), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Scott Rigell (R-VA), John Delaney (D-MD), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). Click here to learn more about the DHS Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act.
02.25.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer joined U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan at Patrick Henry Middle School this morning for a roundtable discussion on the importance of early childhood education with local teachers, administrators, parents, community leaders and organizations. “I was honored to join Secretary Duncan at this morning’s roundtable. We are so lucky to live in one of the wealthiest and best educated districts in the country. Yet we still have students who come to school hungry, cold, or unprepared. In Alexandria City alone, there are approximately 100 children who qualify for Head Start but are still on a waiting list for preschool. Hundreds more living just above the poverty line are also in need of high quality preschool education. As Secretary Duncan so rightly pointed out, education does not start in Kindergarten; a child’s first few years are critical for future development. The best money that we can spend is on early education,” said Rep. Beyer. Patrick Henry Elementary School provides preschool through fifth grade classes in the West End of Alexandria, Virginia. Nearly 80 percent of Patrick Henry’s students qualify for free or reduced lunch and almost half are English language learners. For the past two years, the kindergartners at Patrick Henry had the highest PALS test scores in the Alexandria City Public School System, which Principal Ingrid Bynum, her staff, and parents attribute to the expansion of preschool programs from six to nine classrooms. Secretary Duncan was joined by Libby Doggett, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Early Learning, Dr. Tammy Mann, President and CEO of the Campagna Center, Ingrid Bynum, the Principal of Patrick Henry Elementary School, Dr. Terri Mozingo, Chief Academic Officer, Alexandria City Public Schools; Early childhood Advisory Group Member, Lori Shabazz, Kindergarten Teacher and Winner of the Agnes Meyer Award, Patrick Henry Elementary School, Kate Garvey, Director, Department of Community and Human Services, Ellen Foltz, Executive Director, Bruhn-Morris Family Foundation, and Eby Aka, the father of Patrick Henry Pre-K and 1st Grade Students.
02.24.2015	Congressman Don Beyer introduced the bipartisan DHS Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act today to ensure that all federal Department of Homeland Security employees receive retroactive pay if there is a shutdown, regardless of furlough status. Congressman Rob Wittman (R-VA) is the lead Republican cosponsor. They are joined by Reps. Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Gerry Connolly (D-VA), Scott Rigell (R-VA), John Delaney (D-MD), and Barbara Comstock (R-VA). “The role of DHS employees has never been more critical than it is today. Yet for the second Congress in a row, federal workers face lost paychecks due to furloughs mandated by partisan politics,” said Rep. Beyer. “Today’s bipartisan proposal ensures DHS employees will not lose their pay just because Congress cannot agree on a funding bill. The men and women of the DHS work hard every day to keep us safe. Now we have to uphold our commitment to them.” “Our federal workers are hardworking individuals who are committed to serving their fellow citizens. They deserve better than the dysfunction that too often plagues our budgeting and appropriations process. I am pleased to support this bill that would provide a degree of certainty to a dedicated workforce, the majority of whom would still be expected to serve in the event of a shutdown. To deny them the pay they have earned is unacceptable,” said Rep. Wittman. The American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), the largest federal employee union representing 650,000 federal and DC government workers, voiced its support for the bipartisan legislation. AFGE National President J. David Cox said, “AFGE applauds Representative Don Beyer (D-VA) and Representative Rob Wittman (R-VA) for introducing the ‘DHS Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act of 2015.’ This legislation will help ensure that federal employees will be paid retroactively should DHS funding lapse at the end of the week. We thank the Congressmen for recognizing that federal employees are not the cause of any shutdown and should not be punished by being deprived of their pay.” If DHS funding lapses at midnight on February 27th, 85 percent of DHS employees would be designated “excepted” and would be asked to work without pay until a funding agreement is reached. The remaining approximately 30,000 employees would be furloughed without pay. “The dedicated employees of the Department of Homeland Security should not be penalized if the Department shuts down,” said Congressman Steny H. Hoyer. “From securing our nation’s borders to guarding our airport checkpoints, we rely on these employees to keep America safe, and they should be compensated for the hard work they do every day. Federal employees responsible for the safety and well-being of our nation have already endured furloughs and salary freezes, and it is only right that we ensure they receive the pay they have earned. I’m proud to join my colleagues in cosponsoring this bill, and I will continue to advocate for our nation’s hardworking public servants.” “Congress did not penalize workers after the 2013 shutdown, and that is the only fair thing to do again this year,” Congresswoman Norton said. “DHS employees have had nothing to do with the disagreements we in Congress have amongst ourselves.” Rep. Van Hollen said, “The Congress should do its job, put politics aside, and fully fund the Department of Homeland Security. In a time of heightened security around the world, DHS employees are securing our borders, our shopping malls, and our airports. In the event that Congress fails to uphold its responsibility to fund the Department, hard-working DHS employees should not have to pay the price. This bill helps to honor their commitment and their sacrifice by guaranteeing they are paid when funding is restored.” "Effectively carrying out DHS’ vast and daunting mission requires a herculean effort every day by thousands of hardworking civil servants,” said Rep. Connolly, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee with jurisdiction over the Federal workforce. “If DHS is shut down, the furloughed employees deserve to be made whole. They do not deserve to be victims of congressional dysfunction." “Federal workers should not pay the price for Washington’s dysfunction,” said Rep. Rigell. “We need to make sure these hard working men and women are made whole.” “I am proud to represent many dedicated men and women who work each day to make sure that our country is safe at the Department of Homeland Security. As someone who employed hundreds of people in the private sector, I am embarrassed that we habitually play politics with federal workers – that’s no way to treat a workforce. This bipartisan legislation will ensure that even in the event of a partial shutdown Homeland Security Employees will receive the pay they deserve for the critical work they do,” said Rep. Delaney. “The House did its work, and now the Senate must act responsibly to fund the Department of Homeland Security and respect the rule of law. If that fails, this bipartisan legislation will give a sense of stability to our dedicated federal employees and their families at DHS. The federal workforce should not go without paychecks because Congress cannot reach an agreement on a funding bill. It is not fair to them or their families. Congress has provided back pay in the past and should again now if it fails to reach a deal before the end of the week,” said Rep. Comstock.
02.13.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer introduced his first piece of legislation yesterday, H.R. 927, the Keeping All Students Safe Act. The Keeping All Students Safe Act establishes minimum safety standards in schools similar to protections already in place in hospitals and non-medical community-based facilities. Rep. Beyer’s legislation would help states establish monitoring and enforcement systems that would identify and implement evidence-based models to prevent and reduce physical restraint and seclusion in schools. Over 200 national and state parent advocacy organizations have a history of support for this bill, which has been introduced with the support of 24 original co-sponsors. “It is our responsibility to make sure all children are safe and protected at school. Too often dangerous and abusive techniques are used to discipline our students, disproportionately subjecting minority and disabled students to inappropriate seclusion and restraint in the classroom,” said Rep. Beyer. "The Keeping All Students Safe Act will protect students from these incidents of harmful discipline by setting minimum safety standards for schools and by providing training and support to school personnel. It is of paramount importance that we address this issue now, as Congress begins to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act.” Rep. Bobby Scott, Ranking Member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce, is an original co-sponsor. “I commend Congressman Beyer for introducing this important legislation,” said Rep. Scott. “Every child, in every school, in every state deserves to be safe. It’s time to end the despicable abuse that has hurt too many students, families and school communities.” Senator Barbara Favola has introduced similar legislation in the Virginia General Assembly. “Thirty-two states have already recognized the need for this legislation and passed measures addressing seclusion and restraint. Virginia needs to protect our children from unwarranted and unjust treatment in public schools by passing this common sense legislation,” said Senator Favola. Donna L. Gilles, Executive Director at the Partnership for People with Disabilities at Virginia Commonwealth University, weighed in to support Rep. Beyer’s Keeping All Students Safe Act, saying: “Restraints and seclusion do not change behavior and actually can cause trauma and further behavior problems. In Virginia we have heard numerous stories from parents about young children being locked in rooms, tied to desks, or restrained using belts and ropes. The solution is not restraints but school-wide preventive strategies that create positive learning environments. At The Partnership for People with Disabilities at VCU, we work to provide teachers and administrators, as well as family members, the tools so that they do not use or support the use of these reactive techniques, which, we know from research are ineffective in preventing behavior challenges. Using restraints and seclusion, is unethical by any standards of behavior change.” The Keeping All Students Safe Act is the first piece of legislation Rep. Beyer has introduced. Co-Sponsors include: Bobby Scott, Susan Davis, Gerry Connolly, Dave Loebsack, Katherine Clark, Mark Takano, Paul Tonko, Jim Langevin, Sander Levin, Charles Rangel, Louise Slaughter, Steve Cohen, David Cicilline, Sean Patrick Maloney, Adam Schiff, Grace Napolitano, Pedro Pierluisi, Peter Defazio, Albio Sires, Chellie Pingree, Jim Himes, Mike Honda, Gregorio Sablan, Jim McGovern.
02.12.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer cosponsored H.R. 861 to continue funding the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the end of the fiscal year. DHS coordinates efforts to prevent and respond to acts of terrorism on American soil. “Now is not the time to play political brinkmanship with funding the Department of Homeland Security. From protecting our borders, ports, and air hubs, to coordinating efforts with local law enforcement, or helping communities through FEMA with emergency events, DHS plays a critical role in the safety of the American people,” said Rep. Beyer. “Our national security should not be subjected to partisan bickering on Capitol Hill, which is why I was proud to cosponsor a clean DHS funding measure yesterday.” Rep. Beyer cosponsored H.R. 861 yesterday to avert a DHS shutdown and provide long-term funding to the Department of Homeland Security without controversial anti-immigration riders that have been subject to political battles on Capitol Hill.
02.12.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer released the following statement today on the successful confirmation of President Obama’s nominee for Secretary of Defense, Ashton B. Carter: “I congratulate Secretary Carter on today’s Senate confirmation. From ISIS’ rise in the Iraq and Syria, to ongoing terrorist threats, cyber-security intrusions, and global climate change, our national security challenges are not getting any simpler. With his private sector experience, procurement expertise, and emphasis on innovation, Secretary Carter is the right person to guide the DoD through the 21st century, I look forward to working with Secretary Carter to ensure the best path forward for our Defense Department, national security, tax dollars, and Northern Virginia,” said Rep. Beyer. Carter was confirmed by a vote of 93 to 5. Virginia’s 8th District is home to the Pentagon, Fort Belvoir, Joint Base Meyer-Henderson Hall, and thousands of service men and women and their families.
02.11.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer commemorated the 25th anniversary of Nelson Mandela’s release from prison with the following statement: “In 1962 a young lawyer named Nelson Mandela was thrown into prison simply because he worked to create a free, democratic South Africa where everyone, regardless of race, had equal access to the ballot box.” said Rep. Beyer. “25 years ago today, that young man was freed and in four short years he was South Africa’s first democratically elected President. It was the first time he, and those he fought for, had ever voted.” The apartheid regime in South Africa released Nelson Mandela from prison on February 11, 1990 after serving 27 years. In 1997, he shared the Nobel Peace Prize with the former State President of South Africa, F. W. de Klerk. Mandela died shortly after turning 95 in 2013. Beyer continued, “We must never forget the sacrifices made by those who fight for peace, freedom, and democracy, nor give up that fight in our own nation, commonwealth, and community. The efforts we have seen in recent years, even in Virginia, to roll back provisions of the Voting Rights Act would make the democracy that Mandela, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and so many others fought for all the more difficult to attain. Let us commit ourselves to ensuring true equal voting rights for all.”
02.11.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat and member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, was elected Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Oversight by the Democratic Caucus last night. “It will be an honor to serve as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Oversight,” said Rep. Beyer. “The federal government must be a collaborative partner as we create the new American economy, which will emerge from the science and technology sectors. This will require proper Congressional oversight to ensure that the federal government works for all Americans. I am excited to work with my colleagues and Subcommittee Chairman Loudermilk (R-GA) to cement our role as a global leader in the 21st century.” The Subcommittee on Oversight has general and special investigative authority on all matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and is comprised of nine members - six Republicans, and three Democrats. Science, Space, and Technology Committee Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) welcomed Rep. Beyer, saying, “I am very pleased to have Congressman Beyer serving as the Ranking Member of the Oversight Subcommittee this Congress. He will be in a perfect position to provide thoughtful and valuable oversight to our science agencies. In addition, his passion for and knowledge of the benefits of investing in science and technology give him the perspective needed to defend some of the world’s most respected research whenever it is subjected to misguided or partisan attacks. With NSF in his district, among many other Federal research investments, Congressman Beyer knows well the value of this important work to our economy and way of life.” Beyer was also elected to serve on the Subcommittees on Space and the Environment. Click here to read more about the Science, Space, and Technology Committee’s specific jurisdiction.
02.05.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer released the following statement on the anniversary of the passage of the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA): “Twenty-two years ago President Bill Clinton passed an historic bill providing working American families the security and opportunity they needed to take care of themselves," said Rep. Beyer. "He believed that Americans should not face economic ruin because of the birth of a child or an unforeseen illness. As a small business owner, I know we need to invest in our employees and acknowledge that these major family events or situations require time off from work. Thanks to FMLA, over 75 percent of the American workforce is no longer at risk of losing their job because of a significant medical event.” FMLA, passed February 5, 1993, requires employers to provide unpaid leave for personal or family illness, family military leave, pregnancy, adoption, or the foster care placement of a child. Employees can take up to 12 weeks of leave during a 12-month period, provided they qualify. Beyer added, “The FMLA was an enormous milestone, but we must do more. Over 40 percent of Americans work for organizations not covered by FMLA, and the United States is one of just two nations in the world that does not offer paid family leave. I support President Obama's plan to make paid family and medical leave programs an economic priority." Click here for more information about FMLA, and here for information about President Obama's proposed plan to strengthen working families across America.
02.04.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat and member of the House Committees on Natural Resources and Science, Space, and Technology, released the following statement today in response to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Tom Wheeler’s net neutrality proposal. “Fair, equal access to the internet should be available to everyone. No Internet Service Provider (ISP) should be allowed to block or degrade access to certain sites, nor serve as ‘gatekeepers or toll-booths’ of the Internet. Companies like Google and Facebook, once small insurgent startups, might never have been able to grow had it not been for fair and equal access to the Internet for everyone, not just big businesses that will pay to gain better access. “The need to protect mobile Internet access is underscored by the 43 percent of African Americans and 60 percent of Latinos who rely on mobile phones as their primary means of access to the Internet. This is especially true in certain areas of the Commonwealth where there is a lack of access to traditional Internet service providers. This lack of access to the Internet prevents Americans from finding job opportunities, gaining relevant skills, and signing up for health care coverage,” said Rep. Beyer. Chairman Wheeler’s proposal would reclassify broadband as a Title II service, cover wireless networks with net neutrality rules, and apply those rules to connectivity deals. “Net neutrality through Title II classification and mobile-broadband parity will ensure that current and future initiatives to bridge the digital divide are not undermined or discouraged,” Beyer added. Find more information about Chairman Wheeler’s proposed Open Internet Order, which will be considered by the Commission at its February 26, 2015, here.
02.03.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat and member of the House Committees on Natural Resources and Science, Space, and Technology, released the following statement today in response to the American Academy of Actuaries' (AAA) report that cited the increasingly devastating effects of climate change in the United States due to hurricanes, floods, droughts and other weather-related events. “This sobering report is just the latest barometer of the long-term effects of global climate change in North America. Americans are already suffering the consequences of prolonged droughts, extreme weather events, rising sea levels, and unhealthy summer temperatures,” said Rep. Beyer. The AAA's “Essential Elements” report detailed the cost to human life and property from climate change. The report noted that storms and other weather events cost businesses and consumers dearly: the world's five largest natural catastrophes of 2014, as ranked by insured losses, all occurred in the United States. Beyer added, “Responsibly addressing global climate change is the challenge of our generation. We must do more to reverse it, including greater investments in clean energy." The Academy cited 980 global natural loss events totaling over $110 billion in losses, including a series of severe storms over a five day period in May responsible for nearly $3 billion in damages. They have attributed over 7,000 fatalities to extreme weather last year. Click here to see the Academy’s Essential Elements report.
02.02.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat and member of the House Committees on Natural Resources and Science, Space, and Technology applauded President Barack Obama for making middle class families and the fight against climate change major priorities in his proposed 2016 budget. “Today’s budget from the President is an ambitious and well-conceived budget which would strengthen the economic recovery and expand opportunity for all Americans. His economic action plan would buoy the hard-working middle class by encouraging fair wages, strengthening our STEM programs, and maintaining a responsible fiscal course,” said Rep. Beyer. In addition to his investment in American middle class families, the President’s budget provides an overall $7.4 billion for clean energy technology programs, including almost $100 million for Interior Department programs to create and sustain renewable energy projects on federal land and waters. It also includes a further $239 million to support the EPA's climate change initiatives, $400 million for flood risk mapping, and $4 billion to create a fund to encourage states to make cuts to emissions from power plants. “Our generation has a unique opportunity to determine the quality of the world in the next century. President Obama’s budget is a significant step forward in ensuring that our children and grandchildren have clean air to breath and water to drink. Congress needs to seize this chance to work together and cement our legacy as one that didn’t take this world for granted,” Beyer concluded. Click here to read more about the President’s proposed budget.
02.02.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat and member of the House Natural Resources Committee, was confirmed as the newest member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. “The Committee on Science, Space, and Technology drives the innovation that has shaped the way we live our lives, thanks to advancements in aeronautical engineering, space exploration, and non-military research and development,” said Rep Beyer. “For the past half century Northern Virginia has been at the forefront of these fields, and has helped spur development around the country. I look forward to working with my colleagues to maintain our position as a global technology leader and center for STEM research and education. I am eager to support the innovation that will shape the next half century as we work to combat the crisis of climate change and create a new American economy.” Congressman Lamar Smith (TX-21) is the Chairman and Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) is the incoming Ranking Member on Science, Space, and Technology. Ranking Member Bernice Johnson said, "I want to extend a warm welcome from the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology to Congressman Beyer. In this Congress, Democrats on the Committee will have an opportunity and a responsibility to positively affect our nation's future through our consideration of issues such as education, research, energy, space exploration, manufacturing, and the environment. I believe Mr. Beyer will be a great asset to the Committee and I look forward to working with him this Congress." The Committee on Science, Space, and Technology has jurisdiction over all energy research, development, and demonstration, as well as all federally owned or operated non-military energy laboratories; space research and development, including resources, personnel, equipment, and facilities; civil aviation research and development; environmental research and development; marine research; commercial application of energy technology; National Institute of Standards and Technology; National Aeronautics and Space Administration; the National Science Foundation; National Weather Service; outer space exploration; science scholarships; and scientific research, development, and demonstration. The Committee is comprised of 49 Representatives, 22 Republicans and 17 Democrats. Click here to read more about the Committee’s specific jurisdiction.
01.29.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat, reaffirmed his intention to fight for true equal pay for women in the workforce on the anniversary of President Obama's signing of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. "Six years ago today, President Obama signed his first bill into law. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act aimed to begin the process of empowering women to advocate in court against discriminatory pay practices that allowed their male counterparts to make more for equal work. I was so proud to watch my President confront this issue head-on and to take such an important step toward equal pay. But, the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Act was only the first step. Women continue to suffer due to a very real gender pay gap, and that is unacceptable," said Rep. Beyer. Women make up almost half of the American workforce. According to U.S. Census data, while women are the sole or primary breadwinner in 40 percent of American households, full-time working women still earn an average of 77 cents to every dollar earned by men. Beyer added, “After 40 years in business, I can tell you that equal pay for equal work is the easiest and most important way to ensure the strength of our families, our middle class, and our economy. It is time to make sure women have the equal and full rights they are guaranteed by the Equal Pay and Fair Labor Standards Acts. It is time to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act.” Click here to learn more about the President’s signing of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. Click here to learn more about the Paycheck Fairness Act.
01.15.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat and member of the House Natural Resources Committee, applauded President Barack Obama’s plan to increase access to paid sick and family leave for federal employees. “This morning President Obama announced his plan to sign a Presidential Memorandum requiring federal agencies to advance workers up to six weeks of paid sick leave following the birth or adoption of a child, and I fully support him,” said Rep. Beyer. “Our federal employees are dedicated, hard-working individuals who have chosen to dedicate their lives to service. It is our responsibility to provide them with the full benefits they deserve. I thank the President, and I look forward to approving a bill that calls for federal workers to have six weeks of paid family leave.” The President has also urged Congress to adopt legislation that would allow all working Americans the chance to earn up to seven days of paid sick time each year, and to pass a bill to create a $2 billion fund to encourage states and cities to create and sustain paid family and sick leave programs. Beyer added, “The United States remains the only industrialized country in the world that does not offer paid family leave. It's time for Congress to answer the President's call, adopt legislation that would give working families the support they need, and encourage states and cities to adopt similar legislation.” Click here to read more about the President’s plan to increase access to paid family leave.
01.14.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat, encourages WMATA to extend their hours of operation on Wednesday in order to allow passengers to find and claim their personal property left behind during the L'Enfant Plaza Station evacuation on Monday. “Metro passengers affected by Monday’s tragedy deserve to be able to recover their belongings as quickly as possible, and with minimal burden, which is why I’ve asked WMATA to extend hours at Metro Headquarters tonight, and for as long as it remains necessary,” said Rep Beyer. Beginning this evening, Metro Transit Police will be available to assist passengers in finding their belongings at Metro Headquarters at 600 Fifth St NW, Washington, DC. “If you cannot make it to Metro Headquarters, WMATA has promised me they will work to make arrangements to return your items to you in an alternate fashion. Eighth Congressional District residents needing assistance can contact my district office at 703- 658-5403,” said Rep. Beyer. For more information, Metro passengers can call Metro Customer Service at (202) 637-7000 from 6 AM to 8:30 PM any weekday and 7 AM to 8:30 PM on the weekend.
01.14.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat, voiced his opposition to Bill No. 1414 put forth in the Virginia House of Delegates by Del. Robert Marshall. The proposed bill would give any business accredited or licensed by the Commonwealth of Virginia the right to refuse service to same-sex couples if that business has “religious or moral” objections. “Virginia has made remarkable progress toward marriage equality in recent years, reaffirming the Commonwealth’s old adage, ‘Virginia is for Lovers.’ Delegate Marshall’s proposal to allow businesses to discriminate against anyone demonstrating “homosexual behavior” is shocking in its ignorance of the steps our country has made since Jim Crow laws like this existed. This bill is offensive, not just to LGBT Virginians, but to all those who value equality and civil rights. Governor McAuliffe has promised to veto this bill and I support him,” said Rep. Beyer. Del. Marshall’s bill would block Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe’s executive order to state agencies to recognize same-sex marriage. “All Virginians should have the right to love, marry, and adopt with their committed partner. It is time to update our Commonwealth’s constitution to reflect the our values of fairness and equality. Gov. McAuliffe, State Senators Ebbin and Howell, and Delegates Krupicka, Surovell, and all those should be commended for working tirelessly to ensure that it does,” added Rep. Beyer. Gov. McAuliffe announced on Monday that his administration is updating all sections of the Virginia code referring to “man and woman” or “husband and wife” to be changed to “spouse” as part of his Equal Opportunity Legislative Agenda. Similarly, State Senators Adam Ebbin, Janet Howell and State Delegates Robert Krupika and Scott Surovell have filed resolutions in the General Assembly seeking to remove the gay marriage ban from the Commonwealth’s constitution. In October, 2014, the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals declared the Commonwealth’s marriage equality ban unconstitutional.
01.14.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat, released the following statement in support of H.R. 37 ahead of today’s vote in the House of Representatives: “I am a committed supporter of financial reform and voted today for H.R. 37 because on balance, it contains positive economic reforms. Had I been a member of Congress when Dodd-Frank was proposed, I would have voted for it. I am not, however, averse to modifications to Dodd-Frank that are made in a good faith effort to improve the legislation. “H.R. 37 is a package of 11 bills, eight of which were previously passed by the House with 400 or more votes or passed the Financial Services Committee with near-unanimity and seven of which have nothing to do with Dodd-Frank. Among the bill’s positive provisions is a reform that will help the emerging growth companies -- which have been the engine of our 21st century economy -- access capital and continue to grow. I am listening closely to the criticism of the bill, and respect that perspective. However, I believe that the net impact of the legislation will be positive. For example, the core provision of the Volker Rule, the ban on proprietary trading, is not impacted at all by the bill. “The bill also addresses regulatory requirements which are not necessary to protect American consumers or our broader financial system. Regulation is not important for its own sake, and must be the result of a thoughtful, evolving process. Unnecessary regulations are not only a burden to business; they hamper regulators who are required to use their limited resources enforcing nonessential rules. “I believe our nation needs financial reforms. For example, I endorsed the financial transaction tax proposed Monday by Rep. Van Hollen. I will continue to look for such opportunities. “I have appreciated hearing from my constituents regarding my vote on H.R. 37 and look forward to continuing to do so as the debate over financial sector regulation moves forward in the 114th Congress.”
01.14.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat, was confirmed as the newest member of the House Committee on Natural Resources yesterday. “I look forward to joining my fellow Democrats on the Committee on Natural Resources to get to work protecting our air, land, and water. We can’t continue to strip our public lands and waterways of their natural beauty for the benefit of a wealthy few at the expense many. It’s time for that to stop. Our legacy will be judged by the quality of the world we leave to future generations. I’m excited to continue protecting that legacy as a member of the Natural Resources Committee,” said Rep. Beyer. Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) is the incoming Ranking Member on Natural Resources. “I’m tremendously pleased to welcome Rep. Beyer to the Natural Resources Committee and look forward to serving with him. Rep. Beyer joins our committee as a welcome and established voice for conservation who understands the importance of protecting our natural resources and public lands, including the Chesapeake Bay,” said Rep. Grijalva. “Environmental allies like Clean Water Action support him because of his commitment to address climate change, promote renewable energy and stand up to Republican deregulation schemes,. Those priorities are exactly what we need more of in this Congress, and I can’t wait to get started with him on our team.” The House Committee on Natural Resources, chaired by Rob Bishop of Utah, considers legislation about American energy production, mineral lands and mining, fisheries and wildlife, public lands, oceans, Native Americans, irrigation and reclamation. The Committee is comprised of 47 Representatives, 26 Republicans and 21 Democrats. Click here to read more about the Committee’s specific jurisdiction.
01.13.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer, Northern Virginia Democrat, voiced his support today for Rep. Chris Van Hollen’s proposed tax credit that would offer middle class American families thousands of dollars a year in potential savings. Rep. Van Hollen’s credit would provide families earning less than $200,000 a paycheck bonus credit offset by a financial transaction fee and eliminate many of the tax loopholes exploited by the top 1 percent. “Rep. Van Hollen’s proposal is a real attempt to tackle the growing income disparity between the middle class and the uber wealthy and not more of the trickle down nonsense from the Republican elites” said Rep. Beyer. “This money will go a long way to keeping food on the table, buying new school books and supplies, and keeping gas in the family car. A rise in middle class incomes is critical to sustaining an economic recovery that works for all Americans.” Under the proposal companies would need to raise wages by 4 percent in order to take advantage of tax breaks that allow them to deduct executive bonuses over $1 million. It would also raise the child care tax credit by $5, match a portion of middle class retirement savings, and lower marriage penalties for the working poor. “American workers and their families don’t have expensive lobbyists pushing through tax loopholes that let corporations deduct bonuses to their highest paid executives. It’s time that middle class families, the backbone of this country, got the same breaks our CEO’s have been taking advantage of for years,” Beyer added. Estimates show the package would benefit between 100 and 150 million workers.
01.13.2015	Congressman Don Beyer (D-VA) and Congressman Gerry Connolly (D-VA), released the following joint statement on the ongoing situation on WMATA’s Yellow/Green Line train at L’Enfant Plaza that has led to a significant number of hospitalizations and one reported death: “We are heartbroken at the news of today’s events on the Metro line and await a clear and thorough accounting of the events that led to today’s tragedy. No one should fear for their lives on their commute. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families tonight as we work to make sure this never happens again.” The NTSB is launching an investigation into the incident at L’Enfant plaza effective 8:00 p.m. this evening.
01.13.2015	U.S. Representative Don Beyer was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner yesterday, January 6th, 2015. The Congressman’s D.C. office is open at the following location: 431 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Phone: (202) 225-4376 Fax: (202) 225-0017 You can reach Rep. Beyer on the web at www.beyer.house.gov, on Facebook at facebook.com/RepDonBeyer and on Twitter @RepDonBeyer. Rep. Beyer was elected to serve Virginia’s 8th Congressional District in the 114th Congress, representing the people of Arlington, Alexandria, Falls Church, and Fairfax in Congress. ABOUT DON BEYER: Representative Beyer ran a successful Northern Virginia business for over 40 years, served two terms as Virginia's Lieutenant Governor, and served as President Obama’s Ambassador to Switzerland and Liechtenstein from 2009 to 2013.
