01.18.2019	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Welcomes Pro-Life Constituents to Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C. – Congressman Palmer released the following statement after many of his constituents arrived in D.C. to show support for pro-life efforts. “I am heartened and greatly encouraged to know that many of my constituents came to Washington to peacefully stand up for the lives of unborn children,” Palmer said. “I stand with them in the belief that the right to life is sacred and that life must be protected from its earliest stages. The Supreme Court’s 1973 ruling in favor of abortion must continue to be challenged if we are to adhere to our nation’s founding principles. The Declaration of Independence states that each person has the ‘unalienable rights’ of ‘life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.’ Life is the first and most basic right that makes all other rights possible. It is the prerequisite. I’m grateful for those who have fought for the rights of the unborn since 1973, including so many from the Sixth District who have added their voices to the cause.” January 22 will mark the 46th anniversary of the 1973 Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision that violated the core principle and promise of the Declaration, the unalienable right to life. ###
01.16.2019	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 2019 Dates for “Pastries with Palmer” Announced Washington, D.C. – Congressman Palmer has announced the times for upcoming “Pastries with Palmer” meetings with constituents in his Washington office. “My staff and I are looking forward to welcoming many people from Alabama’s Sixth District to my office this year,” Palmer said. “We’ve been regularly hosting ‘Pastries with Palmer’ for a few years now and it always offers a unique opportunity to interact with constituents and hear from them about issues important to them.” Congressman Palmer typically hosts “Pastries with Palmer” in his office on the last Wednesday of every month’s legislative session. This is a relaxed meet-and-greet time for constituents to enjoy fresh pastries and coffee with the Congressman and his staff. It started during Palmer’s first term in Congress and has continued as a favorite regular event among constituents. The current dates and times for “Pastries with Palmer” are listed below, but may vary, so please call in advance for confirmation: 202.225.4921. January 30th 9:00 AM February 27th 9:00 AM March 27th 9:00 AM April 10th 9:00 AM May 22nd 9:00 AM June 26th 9:00 AM July 25th 9:00 AM September 25th 9:00 AM October 30th 9:00 AM November 20th 9:00 AM December 11th 9:00 AM ###
01.03.2019	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Sworn in for Third Term in U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer released the following statement after taking the oath of office and being sworn in for his third term representing the Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives: “It was a great honor and privilege to stand on the House floor for the third time and pledge to support and defend the U.S. Constitution,” Palmer said. “I look forward to continuing to serve the people of Alabama’s Sixth District in Washington and pursuing sound policies for the good of the country during the 116th Congress. There is much to do over the next two years and I am eager to get back to work.” Congressman Palmer, recently elected as Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee for the 116th Congress, represents Jefferson, Shelby, Chilton, Coosa, Blount, and Bibb counties. ###
11.26.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Team of Four Students from Jefferson County International Baccalaureate School Win 2018 Congressional App Challenge Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer is pleased to announce four students from Jefferson County International Baccalaureate School as the winners of Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District’s first Congressional App Challenge. The winners are Aniket Pant, Viraj Kacker, Lonnie Webb, and Cole McKee. The team designed an app to bring awareness to the water crisis in Tanzania, Africa. The winning students called their app, “Water Well Forecasting and Analysis in Tanzania, Africa.” The app has the intended purpose of predicting the functionality of water wells in real time and in the future. “This is an impressive group of students with creativity and talent,” Palmer said. “Technology skills are more important than ever today and I’m glad that the Congressional App Challenge offered students of the Sixth District the chance to grow in these areas. I congratulate Aniket, Viraj, Lonnie, and Cole on their winning app. They should be very proud.” Apps were judged by Mr. Steven Puckett of Southern Research. The winning students will receive a special recognition certificate from Congressman Palmer. ###
11.14.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Elected to 116th Congress’s GOP Leadership Team Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after his election to the position of Republican Policy Committee Chair for the 116th Congress. “I appreciate the faith that my colleagues have placed in me and am grateful for their support,” Palmer said. “Throughout my career, I have focused on being a problem solver and developing and promoting sound policies, so I feel like I’m uniquely prepared for this role. I look forward to working with my colleagues as we continue advancing and promoting ideas supported by the American people.” Congressman Palmer will serve in the GOP’s leadership team alongside Representative Kevin McCarthy, Minority Leader; Representative Steve Scalise, Minority Whip; Representative Liz Cheney, Conference Committee Chair; Representative Mark Walker, Conference Committee Vice Chair; Representative Jason Smith, Conference Committee Secretary; and Representative Tom Emmer, National Republican Campaign Committee Chair. ###
09.18.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Hosts Post Office Renaming in Honor of Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers Birmingham, AL – The United States Post Office (USPO) Meadowbrook Station will be designated as the “Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers Jr. Post Office Building” in a ceremony to be held at 2:00 p.m. today. The official dedication comes as the result of legislation introduced by Congressman Gary Palmer (AL 06) to honor Rivers, a Hoover native who was killed in action while serving with the United States Marine Corps in Afghanistan in 2010. The legislation was signed into law by President Donald Trump on July 24. Palmer, the Rivers family, United States Post Office officials, and guests will attend the ceremony at the Meadowbrook Station, located at 1900 Corporate Dr., Birmingham, AL 35242. Congressman Palmer will offer remarks during the dedication in honor of Rivers. “Lance Corporal Thomas Rivers was a courageous young man who laid down his life in service to our country,” Palmer said. “He knew from a young age that God had called him to be a Marine and he was determined to live up to that calling. While his loss is still deeply felt in our community, his strong faith in God and his courage and selfless commitment to his fellow Marines should challenge and inspire us all. “I hope every person who looks at this building and sees the name Lance Corporal Thomas Rivers will be reminded of not only his sacrifice, but of the sacrifices of all those who have gone into harm’s way to defend our freedom. I’m proud to be part of this dedication alongside his mother and father and with his family and friends to honor his service and sacrifice.” Rivers grew up in Hoover, AL, the son of Dr. Tom and Charon Rivers. Both of his grandfathers were combat veterans and he showed interest in the Marines from an early age. He attended Briarwood High School and wrote a ninth-grade essay titled “Why I Want to be a Marine.” In it, he wrote that he believed God’s plan for him was to be a warrior and that this path would teach him to rely on God. According to his parents, Rivers was not the best athlete or top student, but his determination drove him to work hard to reach his goal of becoming a Marine. At 17 years old, Rivers joined an “early entry” Marine recruiting program that allowed him to participate in training regimens and classes before he officially joined. Upon his high school graduation in 2007, he formally enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps and went on to complete boot camp in Parris Island, South Carolina. In March 2008, Rivers’s battalion was deployed to Iraq, from which he returned safely seven months later. In his early days as a Marine, his faith in God became stronger and he expressed confidence that God was watching over him. He had his favorite Bible verse, Psalm 91:1, tattooed across his back: “He that dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.” After his first deployment, Rivers trained for another year and was then deployed to Afghanistan in March 2010. He was assigned to 1st Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force, which supported combat operations in the Helmand Province. On the morning of Wednesday, April 28, 2010, he tragically lost his life by an improvised explosive device (IED). He was 22 years old. Briarwood Christian School has established the Thomas Rivers Jr. Warriors Scholarship in Rivers’s honor, and Dr. and Mrs. Rivers have started the nonprofit organization “Support Our Soldiers,” which sends care packages to deployed troops. Their hope is that the program will help spread Rivers’s love for his country and for God. Rivers is buried at the Alabama National Cemetery in Montevallo and is the first soldier killed in action to be buried there. He is survived by his parents; his sister, Rachel; and his grandparents, Colonel (Ret.) and Mrs. Charles R. Doke. ###
09.13.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 United States Post Office Meadowbrook Station to Honor Lance Corporal Thomas Rivers Hoover, AL – The United States Post Office Meadowbrook Station will be designated as the “Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers Jr. Post Office Building” in a ceremony to be held at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, September 18, 2018. The dedication will take place at the Meadowbrook Station, located at 1900 Corporate Dr., Birmingham, AL 35242. Congressman Palmer’s bill, H.R. 4646, moved to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1900 Corporate Drive in Birmingham, Alabama, as the “Lance Corporal Thomas E. Rivers, Jr. Post Office Building. It was signed into law by President Donald Trump on July 24, 2018. Congressman Palmer will join officials from the United States Post Office, members of the Rivers family, and invited guests for the dedication. Lance Corporal Rivers, a resident of Hoover and graduate of Briarwood High School, was killed in enemy action on April 28, 2010, in Afghanistan. He was assigned to 1st Battalion, 2nd Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force, out of Camp Lejeune, N.C. According to officials at the Alabama National Cemetery in Montevallo, Rivers is the first soldier killed in action to be buried there. He is survived by his parents, Dr. Tom and Charon Rivers; sister, Rachel; and grandparents, Colonel (Ret.) and Mrs. Charles R. Doke. What: Dedication of Meadowbrook Post Office StationWhen: 2 p.m. Tuesday, September 18, 2018Where: 1900 Corporate Dr. Birmingham, AL 35242 ###
09.07.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Introduces Bill to Rescind $1.6 Billion of Inactive Funds Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after introducing a new bill that would rescind the $1.6 billion in unobligated balances remaining in the United States Enrichment Corporation (USEC) Fund. “The government is borrowing millions of dollars every day while we have $1.6 billion sitting in an account that cannot be used,” Palmer said. “Since 2015, the Government Accountability Office and officials within USEC have advocated for the rescission of this money. Now is the time for Congress to act.” The USEC began under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 to provide uranium enrichment services for the government and utilities. USEC was eventually privatized, eliminating the need for government funding, but a balance of $1.6 billion now remains. ###
08.24.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Attorney General Sessions is Doing His Job A recent CNN news story mischaracterized my trust in Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Jeff Sessions has my full trust and I believe he has done an excellent job in de-politicizing the Department of Justice. The DOJ has a number of ongoing investigations and Attorney General Sessions will ultimately be judged by the outcome of those investigations, but as it stands, he is doing his job when the only leaks are coming from those being investigated. While I share the President’s concerns about the Russia investigation and believe it should end, Jeff Sessions is recused from that. I believe that Rod Rosenstein, on the other hand, has not represented the Department well, especially in regard to Congressional oversight and document production. This is what I told the CNN reporter; for CNN to reinterpret my comments for the sake of headlines is the very definition of fake news. ###
08.20.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Announces Fire Department Grant to be Shared by Center Point, Trussville, Springville, and Fultondale Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) that will be shared by Center Point Fire, Trussville Fire, Springville Fire, and Fultondale Fire. The grant is for $364,003 and will be used to purchase and implement the Polycom system, which will allow for the delivery of distance training and education. These departments’ applications competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. “The men and women in our fire departments put their lives on the line to ensure our families’ and loved ones’ safety,” said Congressman Palmer. “This grant will allow these fire departments to strengthen their ability to safely respond to fires and other related hazards. I am proud to support all of our first responders and the work they do.” With the new Polycom system, Center Point Fire, Trussville Fire, Springville Fire, and Fultondale Fire will be able to collaborate in real time on fire and EMS training without taking personnel and units out of their coverage areas. Not only will this system allow for distance collaboration between organizations, but it will also facilitate meetings within each organization without moving personnel. The system is also compatible with the current technology being utilized by the Alabama Fire College, which will facilitate the completion of the AFC certification courses. Funds awarded under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ###
08.17.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Hosting Multiple Town Halls Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will host several town halls throughout the Sixth Congressional District during the last week of August. All events are open to the public and will give the people of the district the opportunity to ask questions, offer comments, and share their opinions on current events with Congressman Palmer. Harpersville Town Hall Monday, August 27, 2018 – 10:30am CST 83 Town Hall Ln Harpersville, AL 35078 Vincent Town Hall Monday, August 27, 2018 – 1:00pm CST 25 Foley Street Vincent, AL 35178 Helena Town Hall Tuesday, August 28, 2018 – 7pm CST Helena Sports Complex 110 Sports Complex Dr. Helena, AL 35080 NOTE: All media wishing to attend must email Elizabeth.Hance@mail.house.gov by August 24, 2018 at 5pm. Logistics and further information will be sent out the morning of each Town Hall. UPDATE: The town hall previously scheduled for Wilsonville is being rescheduled due to unforeseen circumstances. ###
07.20.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Elizabeth Hance (202) 225-4921 Palmer Protects Individual Freedom Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after the passage of his amendment to appropriations legislation that includes the District of Columbia’s 2019 budget. The amendment will prevent funding from being used to implement the District of Columbia’s Health Insurance Requirement Amendment Act of 2018: “Individuals should be allowed to make their own decisions about the type of insurance they want to purchase without being subjected to punishment from the government,” Palmer said. “The D.C. individual mandate would restrict patient choice and force people to purchase insurance that they may not need, desire, or be able to afford. If they do not, they will be charged a tax and if they don’t pay the tax they could have their property foreclosed and seized. The government should not be able to seize property of D.C. residents if they have chosen not to buy an insurance policy that they do not need or that violates their conscience by covering elective abortions.” The D.C. mandate would reinstate the individual mandate that Congress repealed through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act last year. It was quietly added to the District’s large 2019 budget bill with little notice and would impose a tax penalty on those who chose to purchase other coverage under the Trump administration’s new association health plans or under short-term health plans. The mandate would also authorize the seizure and sale of property if a resident is unable or unwilling to pay the tax penalty. ###
04.30.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Hoover Student Wins 2018 Congressional Art Competition Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) announced Grace Varner, a student at Hoover High School, as the Sixth District’s 2018 Congressional Art Competition winner. “Each year I am impressed by the creative talents of the young people in Alabama’s Sixth District,” said Palmer. “I would like to congratulate Grace Varner on winning the competition this year and I look forward to seeing her in DC this June for the National Art Reception.” Varner’s artwork titled “Brother” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year. Sixty-Four students from 17 area high schools participated in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Their artwork was displayed at the Riverchase Galleria for a week. Second Place was Payton Hays from Evangel Christian School. Third Place was Bailey Gosdin from Leeds High School. Additional ribbon winners were: Olivia Williams from Spain Park High School, Gabriella Priolo from Briarwood Christian High School, Ginger Llivina from Vestavia Hills High School, Abigail Donovan from Hewitt Trussville High School, Raven Harrington from Hoover High School and Eliza Black from Indian Springs School. Pictures of the winning artwork may be found by clicking here. Pictures of the entire competition may be found by clicking here. ###
03.26.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer to Host Two Town Halls Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will host two Town Halls in Centreville and Clanton during the first week of April. Both events are open to the public and will afford the people of the Sixth Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. Centreville Town Hall Monday April 2, 2018 – 6:00pm CST Vance-Ellison House 593 Birmingham Rd Centreville, AL 35042 Clanton Town Hall Tuesday, April 3, 2018 – 6:00pm CST Clanton City Hall 505 2nd Ave N Clanton, AL 35046 NOTE: All media wishing to attend must email Cate.Cullen@mail.house.gov by April 1, 2018 at 5PM. Logistics and further information will be sent out the morning of each Town Hall.
03.22.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer: I Could Not in Good Conscience Vote For Omnibus Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement on the passage of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, or the “Omnibus”: “While I strongly support the increased funding for our military, I could not in good conscience vote for the Omnibus that costs almost $1.3 trillion. The military threats to our national security are real and serious, but so is the fiscal threat to our national security. As a result of years of deficit spending, trillions have been added to our national debt, which recently reached $21 trillion for the first time. Eventually the bill will come due with major consequences for our nation. That said, everyone should realize that this deficit in the Omnibus bill is largely the result of a long train of abuses that includes: Eight years of neglect of our military, Shameful indifference toward our veterans, Irresponsible entitlement spending, Enormously damaging regulatory and tax policies, including Obamacare, that resulted in eight years of anemic economic growth, And perhaps worst of all, the failure to do appropriations in an open and transparent process in both Houses of Congress as we are required to do by the Constitution. “I continue to be committed to supporting our military, to working to find ways to eliminate deficits, reducing our national debt, and restoring the fiscal health and stability for our nation that is essential to the future well-being of every American.” ###
02.28.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Remembering Reverend Billy Graham Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) delivered a speech on the House floor to remember the legacy of Reverend Billy Graham. Reverend Graham will lie in honor in the Rotunda at the United States Capitol today, February 28th. Congressman Palmer’s speech is available below. Link to Full Video Full Text of Speech: “I want to thank my good friend Mr. Hultgren for arranging this opportunity to honor Billy Graham. Mr. Speaker, tomorrow we will witness something that we have never seen before – the laying in honor of the body of an American who was not a government official, didn’t lead a political movement, and wasn't a war or social movement hero. A nation will mourn a man who was single-minded in his devotion to one thing. “His life and vocation centered on one thing and one thing only: proclaiming the saving grace of God through Jesus Christ. I hope we pay close attention to this. We will most likely never see it again. In Mark, Jesus tells his disciples to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Few people followed this instruction more faithfully than Reverend Billy Graham, and with as much success and impact. “Billy Graham has been called “America's Preacher.” But the fact of the matter is that he was for many decades the most recognized and respected evangelical in the world. Reverend Graham preached the gospel to more than 200 million people during his more than 400 Crusades and rallies in more than 185 countries and territories. “The impact of those reached through TV, radio, video and the Internet is unquantifiable. Reverend Graham did this sacrificially, giving up many opportunities for other, much more lucrative opportunities that most people would have jumped at, were they given the opportunity. Reverend Graham estimated that he was gone from home for about 60% of his children’s adolescence. “Despite being a pseudo-single mom, his wife Ruth understood the importance of the sacrifice. She once said, “I’d rather have a little of Bill than a lot of any other man.” In a time when Christians are so often shunned and ridiculed, particularly those who have major followings, Billy Graham was almost universally regarded as a steady and well-respected voice. He appeared on Gallup’s list of Most Admired Men in America 60 times since 1955 – that’s every year since the research firm began asking the question. “He counseled and covered in prayer every president from Truman to Trump. Former President Clinton said, “When he prays with you in the Oval Office or upstairs in the White House, you feel he is praying for you, not the president.” That's the magnitude of this man. “No matter how big or small you were, he cared about you, not your position. Titles and wealth and social stats didn't matter to Reverend Graham. The only position of a person that mattered to him was their eternal position before God. “And race did not matter either. Reverend Graham was courageous. When other church leaders remained silent, he was an outspoken advocate for racial equality, consistently stating, “Christ belongs to all people.” In 1951, he called for the Southern Baptist Convention to accept black students at their colleges. At a 1953 crusade in Tennessee he personally took down ropes segregating the audience. In 1957, during his crusade in New York, he invited Martin Luther King, Jr. to open one night with prayer. Despite his actions, he said he wished he would have done more to help Dr. King. In 1964, just months after the bombing at the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama, Reverend Graham brought his crusade to Birmingham. Before he agreed to come, Reverend Graham insisted that the audience be integrated. Over 30,000 people attended, making it, at the time, the largest integrated audience in the history of Birmingham. The next year, he spoke to an integrated audience in Tuscaloosa, Alabama with the University of Alabama president Frank Rose and head football coach Paul “Bear” Bryant with him on the stage. “Mr. Speaker, I don't believe there is or will be anyone else in our lifetime that so clearly and effectively called people out of spiritual darkness into the light than Billy Graham. Untold millions were exposed to the saving message of the gospel through his ministry. I mourn the void in moral and spiritual authority that, with his death, has been left in this world, but I rejoice in knowing that he is finally at home and at rest with God. “As it is written about David in Acts 13:36, so it can be said of Billy Graham: “He served God's purpose for his generation.” “Thank you, and I yield back.” ###
01.30.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer: POTUS and the Republican Majorities are Just Getting Started Washington, DC - Congressman Palmer released the following statement after President Trump's State of the Union Address. “After listening to President Trump’s State of the Union Address, we can agree as individuals and as a country we are better off now than before he was elected," said Palmer. "The American people know they are better off today than they were a year ago and they are much more optimistic about the future. "Businesses are expanding, giving bonuses, and increasing their employees pay. New businesses are starting up and old businesses that left the country are coming back. I believe most Americans are not only not buying the delusional rhetoric coming from the Democrats that getting rid of unnecessary regulations will destroy the country or that reforming our tax code and cutting taxes will result in a national catastrophe or that securing our borders and implementing sensible immigration reform is bad for the country, but they are tired of it. "President Trump ran on promises to make America more prosperous and more secure, and, in his first year in office, President Trump has begun to deliver on those promises. As President Trump made clear tonight, he and the Republican majorities in the House and Senate are just getting started." ###
01.26.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Announces U.S. Service Academy Nominations Birmingham, AL – Each December, Congressman Gary Palmer partners with his Academy Advisory Board to interview and nominate outstanding students from Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District for an appointment to our nation’s service academies. U.S. Service Academy recruiters laud the level of preparedness and exceptional achievements of cadets from this district. Students who are accepted as cadets and midshipmen will be receiving the highest levels of education, athletic conditioning, leadership building, and training to defend America’s freedoms on air, land and sea. The application process for most U.S. Service Academies involves receiving a nomination from their U.S. House Representative, U.S. Senator, the Vice President or the President. These academies include the: U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY; U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO; U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Once the nomination is confirmed, each respective academy will review the candidate before making an offer. Student who enroll become scholar soldiers in some of the most prestigious traditions in America. This year, 24 students received congressional nominations from Congressman Palmer. They are as follows: Meron Acker of Heritage International School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy Collin Armstrong of Vestavia Hills High School is nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy Stephen Barlow of Thompson High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy Hayes Cole of Spain Park High School is nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy Lucas Cooper of Oak Mountain High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy John Paul Evans of Oak Mountain High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy Thomas Graham of Mountain Brook High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Maggie Hargrove of Vestavia Hills High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy John Mark Kirkland of Cedarwood Christian Academy is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy Serena Alex May of the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School and Hewitt-Trussville High School, is nominated to the U.S. Military Academy Elliott McElwain of Hewitt-Trussville High School is nominated to the U.S. Military Academy Ashley Mock of Chelsea High School is nominated to U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Lauren Motes of Gardendale High School is nominated to the U.S. Military Academy Elexus Oliver of the U.S. Air Force Preparatory School and Thompson High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy Matthew Pickard of Spain Park High School is nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy Ransom Redman of John Carroll Catholic High School is nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Maximillian Renfro of The Altamont School is nominated to the U.S. Military Academy Luke Sanders of Evangelical Classical Christian School is nominated to the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Sarathi Shah of Jefferson County International Baccalaureate School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Thomas Smith of Homewood High School is nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy Savannah Stewart of Marion Military Institute and Bibb County High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Naval Academy Johanna Thompson of Marion Military Institute and Our Lady of Good Counsel is nominated to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Will Watson of Gardendale High School is nominated to the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Military Academy Hunter Westerlund of Hoover High School is nominated to the U.S. Naval Academy Congratulations to these accomplished students who seek to achieve at the highest levels in order to serve our country. If you or someone you know is interested in attending a military service academy, please visit palmer.house.gov and select Services: U.S. Service Academy Nominations for more information. Eligible applicants must be at least 17 years old, a U.S. citizen, have a strong academic background, proven leadership skills, and be of good moral character. Back: Ransom Redman, Luke Sanders, Thomas Graham, John Mark Kirkland, Matthew Pickard, John Paul Evans, Lucas Cooper, Hunter Westerlund Front: Lauren Motes, Will Watson, Collin Armstrong, Stephen Barlow, Congressman Gary Palmer, Maximillian Renfro, Thomas Smith, Savannah Stewart, Johanna Thompson, Maggie Hargrove Not Pictured: Meron Acker, Hayes Cole, Serena Alex May, Elliott McElwain, Ashley Mock, Elexus Oliver, Sarathi Shah ###
01.24.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer: Destruction of Evidence is Becoming the Norm Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement regarding the FBI text messages: “The revelation that thousands of text messages exchanged between FBI agents critical of President Trump is reminiscent of what has happened in other investigations of potential and actual government misconduct. For instance, backup tapes containing thousands of Lois Lerner’s emails were destroyed, even though the emails were under an evidence preservation order. Lerner was being investigated for using her position at the IRS to harass conservative tax-exempt organizations that were considered political enemies of the Obama Administration. “When the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology sought text message records from EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy they found that she had permanently deleted almost 6,000, claiming they were all personal. “According to the FBI, within days of a conference call with former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s lawyers, an engineer with Platte River Network deleted emails from her private server despite knowing that the emails were under an evidence preservation order and a subpoena. As if destroying Ms. Clinton’s emails were not enough, a laptop containing a copy of her emails from her private server - along with a thumb drive - were “lost” in the postal mail. “It would appear that the preferred method of responding to investigations involving electronic communications and the potential for cover ups is the destruction of the storage mechanism or of the entire device. “In regard to the latest incident of the “lost” text messages by the FBI, I am heartened to know that Attorney General Jeff Sessions considers this to be a serious matter and is committed to “…leaving no stone unturned to confirm with certainty why these text messages are not now available.” This latest revelation about possible political bias only adds to the outrage of millions of Americans who are very concerned about the potential serious violations of law and civil liberties by members of the FBI and others. I commend House Oversight Committee Chairmen Trey Gowdy, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes for their pursuit of the truth and their determination to protect the American people from lawless actions by federal officials. They have my full support.” ###
01.23.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer: The Republican Majority Has Done Its Job Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement regarding Democrat Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi’s false claims. “Yesterday, just before the vote to approve another Continuing Resolution (CR) to keep the government open until February 8th, Democrat Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi went to the floor of the House to argue that the reason we were voting on another CR is that the Republican majority in the House has failed to do our job,” said Palmer. “What the American people should know is that our Republican majority has done its job with almost no support from our Democrat colleagues. In fact, the Republican majority in the House bundled all twelve of the government appropriations into two bills and passed them before the end of last summer. “This was the first time in eight years that the House passed all the appropriations bills and included fully funding our military. Yet, the most Democrat votes we received on either bill was five…just five. We sent those bills to the Senate and they did not take them up. Consequently, we have been forced to pass continuing resolutions to keep the government funded. “In addition, we also funded the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in a separate bill we passed and the Democrats in the Senate held it up as well. As a result, we added CHIP funding to the last CR to fund the program for the next six years. “The American people need to know who is really playing politics. On the last two CRs, had Democrat House members not rushed to change their votes at the last minute once they realized the CRs were about to pass, there would have been precious few Democrat votes for either one. As the cliché` goes, you are entitled to your own opinion, but you are not entitled to your own facts. Ms. Pelosi should realize that - especially when the record so clearly indicates that the facts don’t support her opinions or her assertions.” ###
01.18.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer to Host “Pastries with Palmer” UPDATE: Due to the unpredictability of the government shutdown this past weekend, we have to reschedule this week's "Pastries with Palmer" events. We look forward to sharing the new dates with you in the future. Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer will host three “Pastries with Palmer” events in Birmingham next week. “Pastries with Palmer” is open to constituents of Alabama’s Sixth District and provides a casual environment to discuss current events with the Congressman and his staff while enjoying complimentary coffee and pastries. RSVPs are encouraged for these events due to limited space. Please RSVP to pastries.palmer@mail.house.gov by 3PM on January 23rd. Savages Bakery January 24 at 8:30AM 2916 18th St S, Homewood, AL 35209 Jemison City Hall January 25 at 8AM 14 Padgett Lane, Jemison, AL 35085 Edgar’s Bakery January 25 at 5PM 3407 Colonnade Pkwy, Birmingham, AL 35243 “Pastries with Palmer” is held once a month in the Washington, DC office. For the 2018 DC schedule, click here. NOTE: Media wishing to attend must email Cate.Cullen@mail.house.gov by 3PM on January 23rd to receive confirmation and logistics. ###
01.10.2018	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer on Toyota-Mazda Announcement Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement regarding Toyota and Mazda’s announcement to build a $1.6 billion joint-venture manufacturing plant in Alabama. “Toyota and Mazda made a tremendous decision in choosing Alabama for their new, cutting-edge manufacturing plant,” said Palmer. “I am pleased this new facility will eventually bring 4,000 new jobs and significant economic growth to our state. The fact that Toyota and Mazda picked Alabama is indicative of the hard work and commitment Alabama has made to become the pacesetter in the automobile manufacturing industry.” ###
12.19.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer on Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Vote Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Conference Report. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will provide a much needed tax break for hardworking Americans for the first time in 31 years,” said Palmer. “Our tax plan not only puts more money in the pockets of the American people, but will also launch economic growth. Over the previous eight years our economy only grew at an anemic 1.8 percent per year because businesses were shackled by a complicated and burdensome tax code that was designed for a 1986 economy. The tax reform bill the House just passed removes the shackles and brings our tax code up to date with today’s economy and with American families and workers. I look forward to the Senate favorably voting on the tax bill so we can give the American people a Christmas gift that will keep on giving.” ###
12.06.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Votes to Defend 2nd Amendment Rights Washington, DC – Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after voting in favor of the bill. “As a staunch supporter of the 2nd Amendment, I am a proud cosponsor of and voted in favor of H.R. 38 today. This bill protects the constitutional right for law-abiding citizens to keep and bear arms and ensures that the right does not end when you cross a state line. Overreaching restrictions placed on gun ownership are not only unconstitutional, they inevitably harm law-abiding citizens and do little to dissuade the illegal use of firearms. It is important to note that this bill would not apply to individuals prohibited from possessing a firearm under current federal law.” ###
11.16.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Votes to Cut Taxes Washington, DC – Today the House of Representatives passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act by a vote of 227-205. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after voting in favor of the bill. “My colleagues and I took a significant step towards providing American families much needed and meaningful tax relief,” said Palmer. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowers rates for individuals and families and makes much needed changes designed to spur the type of sustained economic growth that will benefit every American. The American people have been waiting over three decades for this kind of reform and I hope that my colleagues in the Senate will move quickly so that we can reconcile differences and make improvements in order to deliver on the promise of tax reform to the American people.” “One of the primary reasons I ran for Congress was to have the opportunity to help make major reforms that help American families and that help make our nation more secure, more prosperous and on a path to fiscal stability. Throughout this process our focus has been on lowering rates for taxpayers, making sure American corporations can compete in the world economy, cutting taxes and red tape to promote small business startups and help them grow and making our tax code simpler and predictable to promote more investment. These are the essentials that will lead to vibrant and sustainable economic growth and that will put more money in people’s paychecks.” “While we are excited about what we are doing with this bill, our tax reform effort is not a ‘one and done’. We will continue to work year-after-year to ensure that our tax code works for the American economy and works for all Americans.” ###
11.06.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Congressman Palmer Invites AL-06 Veterans to Share Their Stories Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that he will be sharing stories of veterans from Alabama’s Sixth District on his Congressional website in honor of Veterans Day through the month of November. “The selfless service by the men and women of the United States Armed Forces is what keeps our nation great,” said Congressman Palmer. “These brave patriots proudly defended America and I am honored to represent so many veterans in Congress. Please join me in honoring our veterans this November by sharing their stories and thanking all veterans for their service.” Congressman Palmer invites veterans from Alabama’s Sixth District to share their stories and photos from their time in service to our office. The stories and photos will be shared on his official website and on his Facebook page throughout the month of November. Please submit stories and photos to Cate.Cullen@mail.house.gov throughout the month of November. Those who submit material are asked to include a short description of the branch, title, and assignment and to verify they have permission to share the photos and stories before submission. Please keep all submissions under 250 words. We reserve the right to edit submissions. ###
10.05.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer and Velázquez Introduce Puerto Rico Humanitarian Relief Act Washington, DC – Today Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) and Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez (D-NY) introduced H.R. 3966, the Puerto Rico Humanitarian Relief Act, providing a 5 year moratorium of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, more commonly known as the Jones Act. The Jones Act requires any goods shipped to Puerto Rico from a U.S. port be carried in a U.S. owned, U.S. crewed, U.S. built, and U.S. flagged vessel. According to a 2010 study at the University of Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico loses $537 million every year due to the Jones Act. The Puerto Rico Humanitarian Relief Act would provide relief from this burdensome regulation and allow Puerto Rico the opportunity to rebuild their island without added costs and delays caused by the requirements of the Jones Act. Congressman Gary Palmer: “The Congress has the responsibility to act when enacted laws prove to be burdensome. This is especially true in a humanitarian crisis. Our bill provides Puerto Ricans with extended relief from the Jones Act to help them put their lives back together as they rebuild their homes, their communities and their infrastructure. The cost of goods in Puerto Rico is already substantially higher due to Jones Act related shipping costs, and, especially in a humanitarian crisis, every penny counts.” Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez: “Puerto Rico has a long, difficult road ahead of it and the Jones Act will serve only to impede its physical and economic recovery. As the Island struggles to rebuild, it should not be saddled with the burden of paying significantly more for construction materials and other goods, compared to the mainland. Moreover, a long term waiver of the Jones Act will stimulate economic activity. I have already called on the President to, at minimum, exempt Puerto Rico from the Jones Act for at least one year and I’m proud to co-author this bipartisan measure seeking a five-year waiver. Importantly, this bill also requires a full study of the Jones Act’s economic impact, so we have the empirical data to end this debate once and for all.” According to a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, it costs $3,063 to ship a twenty-foot container from the East Coast of the United States to Puerto Rico and $1504 to ship the same container to the nearby Dominican Republic—a destination not subject to the Jones Act. Higher shipping costs could significantly delay efforts to rebuild its economy and rebuild the communities devastated by Hurricane Maria. ###
09.28.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Providing Relief for Puerto Rico Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) issued the following statement after President Trump issued a waiver on the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, more commonly known as the Jones Act, for Puerto Rico. “President Trump’s action today in waiving the Jones Act for Puerto Rico provides 10 days of temporary relief. The President’s authority in this area is limited. In a humanitarian crisis, we must focus on helping others and saving lives. Next week, I plan to introduce Jones Act legislation, which would provide extended relief. Right now Puerto Rico needs our help as they rebuild and recover from Hurricane Maria. The people of Puerto Rico need extended not temporary relief to rebuild their infrastructure, their homes and put their lives back together. At a time when every dime will count, it is the right thing to do to extend the waiver."
08.07.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer To Host August Town Halls Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will host two Town Halls throughout Alabama’s Sixth District in August. The events are open to the public and will afford the people of the Sixth Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. Calera Town Hall Tuesday, August 15 – 6:30PM Calera City Hall 7901 Highway 31 Calera, AL 35040 Hueytown Town Hall Thursday, August 17 – 6:30PM North Highlands Baptist Church 4851 15th Street Rd Hueytown, AL 35023 **All media wishing to attend must RSVP to cate.cullen@mail.house.gov by Monday, August 14 at 3PM. ###
07.20.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Announces 2017 U.S. Service Academy Appointments Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) is proud to announce 14 students from Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District have received offers and will attend one of the United States Service Academies for their higher education and serve at least five-years in our military. In order for a student to apply to a service academy, the student must receive a nomination from a Congressman, Senator, the Vice President or the President. The service academies include the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy*. “Every year I have the honor and privilege of nominating outstanding students from the Sixth District of Alabama for an appointment to our nation’s service academies,” Palmer said. “Receiving an appointment to a service academy is a competitive process with each academy having an acceptance rate of less than 15%. I am pleased to announce the 14 students from Alabama’s Sixth District who received my nomination and accepted an offer from a U.S. Service Academy. Please join me in congratulating these outstanding individuals and their families as they embark to learn at the highest levels and serve America in extraordinary ways.” The students and their schools are as follows: • John Allen Bass from Chelsea High School received an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy; • Wiley Burns from Riverside Military Academy received an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy; • Kaley Ann Fulton from Marion Military Institute (Hewitt-Trussville High School) received an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy; • Davis Holley from Spain Park High School received an appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; • Ryan Kirk from Mountain Brook High School received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy; • Daylen McGhee from Shades Valley High School received an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy; • George Moore from Briarwood Christian School received an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy; • Duncan Morris from Mountain Brook High School received an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy; • Elexus Oliver from Thompson High School received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School; • Stav Pappas from Mountain Brook High School received an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy; • Blake Randle from Oak Mountain High School received an appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; • Gunnar Schultz from Oak Mountain High School received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy; • Jackson Weyhe from Hewitt-Trussville High School received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy; • Sarah Whitley from Oak Mountain High School received an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. If you or someone you know is interested in attending a service academy please visit the website palmer.house.gov and select “Services: U.S. Service Academy Nominations”. Eligible applicants must be at least 17 years old, a U.S. citizen, have a strong academic background, proven leadership skills, and be of good moral character. *USCGA does not require a congressional nomination. ###
07.19.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Funding for the Security of Our Nation Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after the House Budget Committee passed the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget. “The budget passed by the House Budget Committee is far from perfect, but it begins to address the nation’s financial crisis,” said Palmer. “I voted in favor of advancing the budget for a few reasons. According to GAO, the government made more than $140 billion in improper payments in 2016 alone. With this budget, we will save over $700 billion through common sense, stopping improper payments. The budget provides the Department of Defense robust funding to be used for troop training, equipment, and improved readiness in the wake of unprecedented national security threats. The Department of Homeland Security will also be fully funded allowing us to protect our borders and keep America safe from outside threats. While there are more steps and additions necessary to improve this budget and our country’s fiscal health, we have taken the first step to building a better America and a better economy for future generations.” ###
05.25.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Introduces the APPEAL Act Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), introduced the Assigning Proper Placement of Executive Action Lawsuits (APPEAL) Act, H.R. 2660, today to give the federal courts in the District of Columbia exclusive jurisdiction over any challenge to an Executive order, action, or memorandum. “Litigants challenging a President’s Executive orders should not be able to forum shop for a court they believe will provide the most favorable judgment,” said Palmer. “We must ensure our judicial branch operates equally and fairly for all presidents, eliminating chaos and bias. The President of the United States, regardless of party or beliefs, has the authority to issue Executive orders, actions and memorandums. The authority does not belong to activist judges bending the law as they see fit.” Several instances where suits must originate in D.C. already exist. For example, suits against the federal government over a contract claim or its exercise of eminent domain must be filed in D.C.’s Court of Federal Claims. Similarly, prior to the Supreme Court’s 2013 decision in Shelby County v. Holder, Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act required all lawsuits to be filed in the D.C. Also, when parties dispute federal regulations, they often file suit in the D.C., where the federal agency is located. ###
05.24.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Appointed to Intergovernmental Affairs Task Force Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), Chairman of the Intergovernmental Affairs Subcommittee, was named a member of the Task Force on Intergovernmental Affairs, a bipartisan group of lawmakers focused on balancing the interests between federal, state, tribal, and local governments. “Over the years our government has drifted away from Federalism and the system of governing our Founding Fathers created,” said Palmer. “The creation of this Task Force will greatly aid in our ability to steer our country back on the right path with a robust economy, job creation, and each branch of government properly functioning.” MISSION 1. Partner with states, tribes, and local governments to balance the interests of governments 2. Provide a forum for states, cities, and counties to showcase their innovation and creativity in solving public policy problems 3. Examine the effects of federal rules and regulations on state and local partners 4. Develop proposals to partner with and empower states, tribes, local governments, private institutions, families and individuals 5. Examine the extent to which the burdens shared among states, tribes and local governments may be re-allocated to improve the quality of life in all communities MEMBERSHIP CHAIRMAN: Speaker’s Designee Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) REPUBLICANS: Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN) Rep. Mark Walker (R-NC) Rep. John Culberson (R-TX) Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-NY) Rep. Jenniffer Gonzáles-Colón (R-PR) DEMOCRATS: Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA) Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) Rep. Norma Torres (D-CA) Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD) Rep. Charlie Crist (D-FL) ADVISORY COUNCIL TO THE TASK FORCE National Association of Counties (NACo) National Governors Association (NGA) Council of State Governments (CSG) National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL) National League of Cities (NLC) U.S. Conference of Mayors International City/County Management Association (ICMA) ###
05.04.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Votes to Repeal and Replace Obamacare Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) issued the following statement after voting in favor of the American Health Care Act of 2017 which passed 217 to 213. “Today the House of Representatives took the first step toward repealing and replacing the misnamed Affordable Care Act and restoring access to affordable healthcare for all Americans,” said Palmer. “The amendment that I authored on invisible risk sharing will drive down the cost of health insurance premiums and helps ensure that those with preexisting conditions have affordable coverage. The option for states to choose to receive Medicaid funding as a per-capita cap or a block grant will provide states with more flexibility to meet the needs of their Medicaid eligible people and will reduce the waste of billions of Medicaid dollars to fraud, inefficiencies and mismanagement. The AHCA also gives states the option to establish work requirements for able-bodied adults without small children. Together, these additions to the AHCA are the most substantial entitlement reform in 50 years. Although states, as they should be, are provided the option to seek waivers from certain federal mandates, states must certify that pursuing a waiver is for the purpose of expanding coverage or reducing the cost of healthcare. There is no underlying intention to exclude people from coverage, including those who have been previously sick, and it is important to note that this bill will not exclude people from coverage. There is a little known provision in the bill which defunds Planned Parenthood for one year and will protect this lives of the unborn. This bill is not the end of our efforts to dismantle Obamacare and repair the damage done to our healthcare system. It is the first major step forward.” ###
04.26.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Vestavia Hills Student Wins 2017 Congressional Art Competition Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) announced Carson McDonald, a student at Vestavia Hills High School, as the Sixth District’s 2017 Congressional Art Competition winner. “Each year I am impressed by the creative talents of the young people in Alabama’s Sixth District,” said Palmer. “I would like to congratulate Carson McDonald on winning the competition this year and I look forward to seeing him in DC this June for the National Art Reception.” McDonald’s artwork titled “Untiled” will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year. 70 students from 19 area high schools participated in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Their artwork was displayed at the Riverchase Galleria Mall for a week. Pictures from the event may be found by clicking here. Pictures of the entire competition may be found by clicking here. ###
04.11.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Rep. Palmer Announces April Town Halls Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will host two Town Halls during the month of April. These events are open to the public and will afford the people of the Sixth Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. Chelsea Town Hall Tuesday April 18 at 6PM Chelsea Community Center 11101 Highway 47 Chelsea, AL 35043 Gardendale Town Hall Thursday April 20 at 6:30PM Gardendale Civic Center 857 Main Street Gardendale, AL 35071 NOTE: All Media wishing to attend must email Cate.Cullen@mail.house.gov no later than Monday April 17th at 5PM. ###
03.24.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 We Can Provide The American People A Better Solution Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after the American Health Care Act was pulled from the House Floor. “After hearing from me and many of my colleagues the Republican leadership decided not to hold the vote on the American Health Care Act. I believe pulling the bill from the House floor was the right call. The American people have suffered for the last 7 years under Obamacare, and I know we can provide them a better solution that will put healthcare decisions back in their hands, not in the hands of the Federal Government. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and President Trump to do just that. Working together we can still pass a bill that allows Americans to access the doctors they want, decide the coverage they need, and lower their healthcare expenses.” ###
03.16.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Rep. Palmer on American Health Care Act Vote Washington, DC – Following the House Budget Committee vote on the American Health Care Act, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) issued the following statement: “We have one opportunity to answer the healthcare crisis the American people are facing. In my opinion, the current bill does not answer this crisis. I voted against the American Health Care Act in the Budget Committee because the promises of changes in the future are insufficient. Now that the bill has been reported out of committee, I will continue to work for the changes that are necessary to ensure Medicaid is a viable and affordable program to provide healthcare to the people who need it most. In that regard, I believe block granting Medicaid to the states and requiring work for able-bodied working age adults are essential to achieving this objective. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make these and other improvements to this bill.” ###
02.14.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Rep. Palmer to Hold Town Hall Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will host a Town Hall at Hoover City Hall on February 25th at 9AM. This event is open to the public and will afford the people of the Sixth Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. What: Town Hall When: Saturday, February 25th at 9AM Where: Hoover City Hall NOTE: All Media wishing to attend must email Cate.Cullen@mail.house.gov no later than February 24th at 12PM to be credentialed for this event. ###
02.03.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Rep. Palmer, Sen. Lee Introduce Agency Accountability Act Washington, DC – Today Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) and Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) introduced the Agency Accountability Act (AAA), requiring all fines, fees, penalties, and other unappropriated funds collected by federal agencies to be transferred to the Treasury, and subject to the appropriations process. Congressman Gary Palmer: “For too long Congress has granted federal agencies the authority to collect fines, fees and other revenues outside of their appropriated funds with little to no Congressional oversight on how the monies are spent. Congress’ power of the purse is exclusive and absolute and we must begin reclaiming our Article I authority. I am proud to team up with my colleague Senator Mike Lee on this important piece of legislation in both the House and Senate. " Senator Mike Lee: “Over time, Congress has given away their power to raise funds to the executive, allowing federal agencies to collect fines, fees, and other revenues outside of the normal appropriations process,” Sen. Lee said. “While a significant portion of these fees and funds are used to offset appropriations, agencies have been known to use some of the fees to self-fund programs that have not necessarily been approved by Congress. This bill is an important step towards increasing transparency, simply by bringing all funds back where they belong – under congressional oversight and authority.” A sizable portion of the fines, fees and other revenues are used by agencies to self-fund programs or operations outside of the normal appropriations process. For example, entities such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) receive no appropriated funds from Congress. According to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in 2015 the federal government collected $516 billion in user fees alone. The Agency Accountability Act would allow Congress to effectively assert the power of the purse over the actions of federal agencies and bring more transparency and accountability to the federal government. AAA has received support and accolades from the following organizations: FreedomWorks, R Street Institute, Americans for Tax Reform, and Americans for Limited Government. Congressman Palmer and Senator Lee previously introduced AAA in the 114th Congress. ###
01.24.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Appointed Chairman of Intergovernmental Affairs Subcommittee Washington, DC – The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee recently announced Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Affairs. Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Affairs Chairman Gary Palmer: “I am honored to have the opportunity to serve the American people as the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Affairs. Oversight of the relationship between the federal and state governments and international organizations is essential to America’s success. I look forward to continuing my work limiting government overreach and reining in burdensome regulations with this new subcommittee.” House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT): “Gary has been a fierce advocate for federal government reform since entering congress. He’s a principled leader and I have the utmost faith that he will lead the new subcommittee with vigorous oversight and robust reform.” The Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Affairs has oversight jurisdiction and legislative authority over the relationship between the federal government and states and municipalities and between the United States and international organizations of which the United States is a member, including unfunded mandates, federal regulations, grants, and programs.
01.20.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Statement on the Inauguration of President Donald J. Trump Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after the Inauguration ceremony of President Donald J. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence: “I offer my congratulations and prayers to our 45th President of the United States of America, Donald J. Trump, and Vice President, Mike Pence, as they serve the American people,” said Palmer. “This Administration has the opportunity to lead our country with dignity and to uphold the Constitution as our Founding Fathers intended almost 230 years ago. I look forward to working closely with President Trump and his Administration as we Make America Great Again.” ###
01.18.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Nominates Students to U.S. Service Academies Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) is pleased to announce that 27 students from Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District have received nominations to attend U.S. Service Academies. Those 27 students represent 15 high schools, two military preparatory schools and one university, and were recognized, along with their families, at a reception held at Vestavia Hills City Hall on Tuesday, Jan. 17. “Every year I have the honor and privilege of nominating outstanding students from the Sixth District of Alabama for an appointment to our nation’s service academies,’’ said Palmer. “Service academy recruiters often compliment Alabama’s Sixth District for the level of preparedness and exceptional achievements of students from our area. “ The application process for most U.S. Service Academies involves receiving a nomination from the student’s U.S. House Representative, U.S. Senator, the Vice President or the President. These academies include the: U.S. Military Academy in West Point, NY; U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO; U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. Once the nomination is confirmed, the academy will review the whole candidate to determine admission. Students who are accepted become scholar soldiers at some of the most prestigious institutions in America. Each December, Congressman Gary Palmer partners with his Academy Advisory Board to interview and nominate outstanding students from the Sixth Congressional District for an appointment to one of our nation’s service academies. “Please join me in congratulating these students and their families for this major accomplishment in the application process,” said Palmer. “I look forward to seeing how each individual goes on to serve this country in the future.” The 27 students who received nominations from Congressman Palmer are: •John Allen Bass of Chelsea High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy; •Wiley Burns of Riverside Military Academy, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy; •Ethan Clarke of Oak Mountain High School, nominated for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; •Cam Covington of Evangel Classical Christian School, nominated for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; •Tyler Ferguson of Calera High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy; •Kaley Ann Fulton of Marion Military Institute, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy; •Brianna Hebert of Jefferson County International Baccalaureate High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy; •Davis Holley of Spain Park High School, nominated for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; •Thomas Jordan of Spain Park High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy; •Ryan Kirk of Mountain Brook High School, nominated for the U.S. Naval Academy; •Daylen McGhee of Shades Valley High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy; •Jackson McInvale of James I. O’Neill High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy; •George Moore of Briarwood Christian High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy; •Duncan Morris of Mountain Brook High School, nominated for the U.S. Naval Academy; •Elexus Oliver of Thompson High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy; •Stav Pappas of Mountain Brook High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy; •Noah Probst of the University of Alabama at Birmingham, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Naval Academy; •Sarah Rabenau of Chelsea High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy and U.S. Military Academy; •Blake Randle of Oak Mountain High School, nominated for the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; •Robert Randolph of Mountain Brook High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy; •Gunnar Schultz of Oak Mountain High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy; •Savannah Stewart of Bibb County High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy; •Jeffery Turnipseed of Calera High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; •Jackson Weyhe of Hewitt-Trussville High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy; •Jackson White of Homewood High School, nominated for the U.S. Naval Academy; •Sarah Whitley of Oak Mountain High School, nominated for the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Naval Academy; •Kaitlyn Willis of Chelsea High School, nominated for the U.S. Military Academy. If you or someone you know is interested in attending a military service academy and lives in Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District, please visit palmer.house.gov and select Services: U.S. Service Academy Nominations for more information. Eligible applicants must be at least 17 years old, a U.S. citizen, have a strong academic background, proven leadership skills, and be of good moral character. Congressman Gary Palmer pictured with nominated students at a reception on January 17. Back L: Ryan Kirk, Tyler Ferguson, Daylen McGhee, Noah Probst, Gunnar Schultz, Jeffery Turnipseed, Duncan Morris, Robert Randolph, John Allen Bass, Thomas Jordan, Jackson Weyhe. Front L: George Moore, Jackson White, Elexus Oliver, Congressman Gary Palmer, Stav Pappas, Sarah Whitley, Sarah Rabenau, Kaitlyn Willis, Blake Randle, Savannah Stewart. Not Pictured: Wiley Burns, Ethan Clarke, Cam Covington, Brianna Hebert, Davis Holley, Kaley Ann Fulton, Jackson McInvale ###
01.13.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer: House Takes First Step Toward Dismantling Obamacare Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) issued the following statement after voting in favor of a resolution to begin the reconciliation process to repeal Obamacare: “Today the House took the first step toward dismantling Obamacare,” said Palmer. “Over the past 6 years, we have been forced to deal with this unaffordable mandate misnamed the Affordable Care Act. Too many people, including many of my constituents, lost insurance and doctors they liked. Healthcare premiums skyrocketed, deductibles soared, and healthcare options became limited. Now we have an opportunity to provide real healthcare solutions that put the people back in charge of their healthcare decisions.” ###
01.09.2017	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Selected for RSC Steering Committee Washington, D.C. – Republican Study Committee (RSC) Chairman Mark Walker (R-N.C.) announced Congressman Gary Palmer’s (R-AL) appointment to the RSC Steering Committee. Congressman Gary Palmer: “I am honored to be selected as a member of the RSC Steering Committee. The policies and legislation we introduce and pass are more important than ever as we enter in to the 115th Congress. I look forward to working with the RSC, my fellow members of the Steering Committee and Chairman Mark Walker to develop and promote conservative and forward-thinking legislation that will help get our nation back on the right track.” Chairman Mark Walker: “In the 115th Congress, we have a unique opportunity to do more than simply make an argument – we have the opportunity to make a positive difference. I am proud to have Rep. Gary Palmer as a member of the Republican Study Committee’s Steering Committee. His guidance will be vital as we work to advance conservative policies with a strong voice that addresses the challenges facing our nation. It’s an honor to work with Gary and I appreciate his leadership as a trusted advisor.” RSC Steering Committee, 115th Congress Chairman Rep. Mark Walker (R-N.C.) Founders Rep. Sam Johnson (R-Texas) Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) Rep. Rob Woodall (R-Ga.) Rep. Bill Flores (R-Texas) Steering Members Rep. Jim Banks (R-Ind.) Rep. Andy Barr (R-Ky.) Rep. Mike Bishop (R-Mich.) ex-officio Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-Ala.) Rep. French Hill (R-Ark.) Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.) Rep. Mia Love (R-Utah) ex-officio Rep. Tom McClintock (R-Ca.) Rep. Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-N.C.) ex-officio Rep. Todd Rokita (R-Ind.) Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio) The RSC’s Founders include the original founding members of the RSC as well as previous chairs of the organization. The Founders are charged with advising the current chairman on the long-term viability of the group. The Steering Committee oversees the operation of the organization and provides the chairman with guidance. ###
01.03.2017	January 3, 2017 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Sworn In For Second Term in U.S. House Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement shortly after taking the oath of office and being sworn in for his second term representing Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District in the United States House of Representatives: “It was a great privilege to stand on the House floor for the second time pledging to support and defend the Constitution,” said Palmer. “I look forward to serving the great people of Alabama’s Sixth District in the 115th Congress and bringing our conservative values to Washington, D.C. I believe we can accomplish a lot over the next two years and I am eager to get back to work.” Congressman Palmer represents Jefferson, Shelby, Chilton, Coosa, Blount and Bibb counties.
11.18.2016	November 18, 2016 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Statement on Senator Jeff Sessions Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) offered the following statement: “Today President-elect Trump made an excellent choice for United States Attorney General by nominating Senator Jeff Sessions to serve our nation in his Administration,” said Palmer. “As a former U.S. Attorney in Mobile and Alabama’s Attorney General, as well as a United States Senator, Senator Sessions defended the Constitution and held firm to our founding principles. Over the past 20 years, Senator Sessions has proven himself to be an intelligent, trustworthy conservative in the Senate becoming a voice for millions of Americans who felt ignored by Washington. His track record of success and sound decisions make him the best possible candidate for the job. I truly believe that Senator Sessions is the right man to restore the public's confidence in our justice system.” ###
10.13.2016	Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Statement on Trump Birmingham, AL – Today Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) issued the following statement in regard to his support for the Republican ticket and Donald Trump. “For the last several days, a number of news organizations have misrepresented my position in regard to support of the Republican nominee, Donald Trump. I have said from the beginning of the campaign cycle that I would support the Republican nominee and have never given any indication otherwise. “Last week, it was revealed that 11 years ago, Mr. Trump had made some offensive and inappropriate comments about women. In the statement I issued, denouncing the comments by Mr. Trump, there was nothing to indicate I would not support him in November. But some news outlets have placed me with a group of people who have said they would not support Mr. Trump, when that has never been my position. “Let me be clear, we are looking at two very imperfect candidates, but supporting the Republican nominee – Donald Trump - over the Democratic nominee - Hillary Clinton - is not a difficult choice. Even in recent days, we have seen more evidence from the emails released by WikiLeaks confirming that Mrs. Clinton is a pathological liar; we know that she is guilty of being extremely careless while mishandling classified information, that her actions caused four Americans to lose their lives in Benghazi, and she and President Obama are principally responsible for the disaster unfolding in the Middle East that has left over a half million people dead and millions more as refugees. “Under the Obama Administration, the regulatory burden has crippled the economy and for the first time since the Carter Administration more small businesses are closing than opening, middle and lower income American families have seen their incomes decline, and millions are out of the workforce. Hillary Clinton has promised to continue the status quo, and that is unacceptable. And while I can offer no defense for the reprehensible comments made by Mr. Trump, he has run a conservative campaign and continues to surround himself with people I trust, like Jeff Sessions and Mike Pence, both of whom I have known for over 20 years. “This election is not about comments made 11 years ago or even 11 months ago, but about the policies represented by the two candidates. Hillary Clinton will continue the assault on the Second Amendment; she will continue to allow the killing of the unborn; she will continue to appoint judges who legislate from the bench; she will continue to issue executive orders not based on law or logic; she will continue to destroy our military and national defense; and she will continue to drive up the national debt and harm economic growth with regulatory burdens. “When every poll shows that over 75-percent of Americans believe the nation is headed in the wrong direction, it should be evident that we need to change direction. That is why I will support Mr. Trump as the Republican nominee, because Hillary Clinton must not be the next president.” ###
10.04.2016	October 4, 2016 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 October Town Hall Notice Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will host seven Town Halls throughout Alabama’s Sixth District in October. The events are open to the public and will afford the people of the Sixth Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. Clay Town Hall Monday, October 10 – 6:30pm Clay City Hall 2441 Old Springville Rd Birmingham, AL 35215 Homewood Town Hall Wednesday, October 12 – 6:00pm Homewood City Hall 2nd Floor Council Chambers 2850 19th Street South Homewood, AL 35209 Hoover Town Hall Thursday, October 13 – 6:30pm Hoover City Hall Council Chambers 100 Municipal Lane Hoover, AL 35216 Columbiana Town Hall Friday, October 14 – 8:30am Columbiana Senior Center 110 Mildred Street Columbiana, AL 35051 Kimberly Town Hall Monday, October 17 – 6:00pm Kimberly Senior Center 8013 Warrior Kimberly Road Kimberly, AL 35091 Pelham Town Hall Monday, October 24 – 7:00pm Pelham High School 2500 Panther Circle Pelham, AL 35124 Graysville Town Hall Tuesday, October 25 – 6:30pm Graysville Public Library 315 South Main Street Graysville, AL 35073 ###
09.29.2016	September 29, 2016 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Statement on H.R. 5303 Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act of 2016: “Yesterday I voted against H.R. 5303, and in support of the people of Alabama,” said Palmer. “Although the bill has some good provisions, section 113 of the bill would undermine our state’s efforts to resolve the water dispute between Georgia, Florida and Alabama. This provision represents one of many reasons people distrust Congress. It was included without debate and inserts the federal government into a matter that can and should be resolved by the states. This is another occasion where states’ rights only matter to certain members when it benefits them.” ###
09.27.2016	For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Announces Center Point Fire Department Grant Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Center Point Fire Department received a $284,532 Assistance to Firefighters Grant for Fiscal Year 2015. The department’s applications competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. “The men and women in our fire departments put their lives on the line to ensure our families and loved ones’ safety,” said Congressman Palmer. “This grant will allow the Center Point Fire Department to strengthen their ability to safely respond to fires and other related hazards. I am proud to support all of our first responders and the work they do.” Fire Chief Donnie West said this grant will be used to purchase self-contained breathing equipment for each fire/medical apparatus. These specialized self-contained breathing devices allow firefighters to enter smoke filled environments for conducting search and rescue efforts. In addition, these devices will also assist in reducing exposure to carcinogens while firefighters are actively extinguishing various types of fires. Funds awarded under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ###
09.20.2016	September 20, 2016 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Statement on FDA Approval of Exondys 51 Washington, DC – On Monday, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a drug for Duchenne muscular dystrophy more than 100 days after the agency’s legally mandated decision date. The drug, Exondys 51 (eteplirsen), is the first of its kind and will benefit patients who have a confirmed mutation of the dystrophin gene amenable to exon 51 skipping. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) offered the following statement: “This was a victory for those affected by Duchenne muscular dystrophy and their families,” said Palmer. “With the FDA approval of Exondys 51, some people impacted by Duchenne have new hope for an improved quality of life and a better tomorrow. I applaud all those who have advocated for this medical advancement, including one of my constituents, Gabe Griffin. While this medical advancement does not treat the cause of Gabe’s muscle degeneration, it is a step in the right direction towards creating and approving the drug that will.” ###
09.13.2016	September 13, 2016 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer To Host A U.S. Service Academy Night Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) will host a U.S. Service Academy Information Night on September 19th, 2016 at 6 PM. Representatives from the U.S. Military Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy will be present, along with representatives from Marion Military Institute in Marion, AL. In addition to interacting with representatives from the academies, interested students and parents will have the opportunity to hear about the Congressional nomination process. WHO: Congressman Gary Palmer, U.S. Service Academy representatives, high school students and their parents in the 6th Congressional District interested in applying for a U.S. Service Academy WHERE: Vestavia Hills City Hall, 1032 Montgomery Highway, Vestavia Hills, AL 35216 WHEN: Monday, September 19th, 6:00-7:00PM Event registration is not required; however, for specific questions parents/students may contact Margaret Kloess at (205) 968-1290 or Margaret.Kloess@mail.house.gov. For more information on the application and nomination process for Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District, please visit our website: palmer.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. ###
09.13.2016	September 13, 2016 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Statement on Quinton Dial Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) offered the following statement after former Alabama football player and current San Francisco 49ers defensive lineman Quinton Dial helped members of the armed forces hold an American flag during the National Anthem: “Last night Quinton Dial took a courageous stance in support of America and our military,” said Palmer. “While his teammate protested the National Anthem by kneeling as it played, Quinton proudly stood by members of our armed forces and helped them display the American flag for all to see. I applaud Quinton’s actions and his pride in our great nation. I'm proud to call him my fellow American.” ###
09.06.2016	September 6, 2016 For Immediate Release Media Contact: Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Remembers Phyllis Schlafly Washington, DC - Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement regarding Phyllis Schlafly: "Yesterday, America lost a conservative leader and an icon," said Palmer. "Phyllis Schlafly was a leader who had an enormous impact on America. I first met Phyllis around 1990 shortly after I began work with the Alabama Family Alliance, which later became the Alabama Policy Institute. I was tremendously impressed by her intellect and her communication skills. She was respected among her peers, even among those who disagreed with her. Ann and my thoughts and prayers are with her family as we mourn her passing and remember her life and accomplishments. Phyllis Schlafly was an incredible woman and truly one of the most influential Americans of the last century." ###
07.30.2016	"In 1864, in the midst of the Civil War, the phrase “In God We Trust” appeared on U.S. coins which has become the unique identifier of American currency. This statement reflected the American sense that we did not trust in our material well-being but in the grace of God. It reflected the sentiments of the 54 men who, with a firm Reliance on the protection of Divine Providence, signed the Declaration of Independence. It was fitting then that, 92 years after putting the motto on our currency, on July 30,1956 President Dwight D. Eisenhower, signed the law making “In God We Trust” our national motto. Today we celebrate 60 years of having a motto that sets us apart from all the other nations of the world in that we officially recognize that our security and our hope for the future still rely on the protection of Divine Providence. I hope and pray that not only for the next 60 years, but as long as our nation exists, that our nation will continue to place its trust in God."
07.27.2016	July 27, 2016 Media Contact For Immediate Release Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer To Hold Town Hall in Chilton County Clanton, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will hold a Town Hall at 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, August 3rd in Clanton, Alabama. The event is open to the public and will afford the people of the 6th Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. Who: Congressman Gary Palmer and the people of the 6th Congressional DistrictWhat: A public town hall eventWhen: Wednesday, August 3rd at 10:30 a.m.Where: Clanton City Hall, 505 2nd Ave N, Clanton, AL 35045Why: An opportunity for the people of the 6th Congressional District to discuss issues directly with Congressman Palmer ###
07.07.2016	July 6, 2016 Media Contact For Immediate Release Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 The Government Reform and Improvement Act Passes the House​ Washington D.C. – Today the House passed Congressman Gary Palmer’s (R-AL) bill H.R. 4361 the Government Reform and Improvement Act with a vote of 240-181. “The House took an important step towards securing Americans’ valuable information and data,” said Palmer. “This bill would empower the heads of federal agencies to protect critical data systems from cyberattacks. Securing hundreds of millions of Americans’ data and millions of federal employees’ data is more important than the convenience of a few federal employees using government computer systems for personal use. When a federal agency acts in the interest of securing Americans’ data, the head of the agency should be confident the action will not be challenged by unions or outside groups because the agency did not engage in bargaining over cybersecurity. The security of Americans’ data is non-negotiable and should not be eligible for bargaining.” Under the Government Reform and Improvement Act, the head of each Agency is responsible for securing its information systems from unauthorized access and other threats posed to our nation’s security and economic vitality. Before this bill, the Federal Labor Relations Authority mistakenly determined federal employee unions can block agencies from taking action to implement cybersecurity protections against direct risks until the agencies first negotiate on them. “I appreciate the opportunity to lead this package of bills,” said Palmer. “This is sensible and responsible legislation to increase federal agencies’ ability to protect their data systems and thus increase protections offered to every federal employees. We were able to accomplish the following: safeguard federal information systems, prohibit access to pornographic websites from government computers, increase accountability for federal employees and force the IRS to comply with the same record keeping requirements that they impose on the American taxpayers. This bill would end the practice of subjecting Americans to a barrage of regulations imposed by an outgoing administration that can no longer be held accountable.” ###
06.23.2016	June 22, 2016 Media Contact For Immediate Release Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Statement on Supreme Court’s Decision on United States v. Texas Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) offered the following statement following the Supreme Court decision on United States v. Texas. “Today the Supreme Court put the power back in the hands of the American people, not President Obama’s,” said Palmer. “Their 4-4 tied decision thwarts the President’s attempt to unconstitutionally overrule current immigration laws. Laws are made by the people through their elected representative, not through executive action. We must work together to enforce our current immigration laws and secure our borders, but today we celebrate this victory for the American people.” ###
06.23.2016	June 22, 2016 Media Contact For Immediate Release Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Stands Up Against the EPA for Alabama Coal Miners Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) shared a video today detailing the stories of Alabama coal miners who have been affected by the Environmental Protection Agency’s overregulation and lack of science-based policy. “If fully implemented the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) regulations will have negligible, if any, positive impact on the environment, but they will have a substantial and detrimental impact to the economy and jobs,” said Palmer. “Moreover these regulations are resulting in higher household energy costs that are especially hard on low-income families and senior citizen households. The EPA should do what I have done – take an opportunity to meet these coal miners and hear their stories about how regulations have impacted their lives and livelihood. The EPA would learn that these are real people with families, not statistics that don’t matter. But what do statistics show? They show that because of rising energy costs, 37% percent of vulnerable, low-income households went without medical or dental care, 34% did not fill a prescription or took less than their full dose of prescribed medication, 24% went without food at least once a day and 19% became sick because their home was too cold. The EPA may view these coal miners and their families as collateral damage in the pursuit of their agenda, but we cannot sit back and accept this. We must stand up for the victims of the EPA’s overreaching and scientifically questionable policies.” See their stories here. ###
06.21.2016	June 21, 2016 Media Contact For Immediate Release Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Protects Religious Freedoms Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) introduced an amendment to H.R. 5485, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act. His amendment protects religious liberty by prohibiting funds from being used to implement DC’s Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Act (RHNDA). “This amendment protects life and religious liberties,” said Palmer. “The Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Act (RHNDA) could force employers in DC to cover abortions in their health insurance plans and require pro-life organizations to hire individuals who advocate for abortion. Freedom of religion does not stop at the District of Columbia’s borders. Federal dollars whether in D.C. or otherwise must not be used to take lives or deny religious freedoms. This amendment would prohibit D.C. from promoting policies to do that.” ###
06.16.2016	June 16, 2016 Media Contact For Immediate Release Cate Cullen (202)225-4921 Palmer Introduces Bill to Hold Federal Agencies Accountable Washington D.C. – Today Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) introduced the Agency Accountability Act (AAA), requiring all fines, fees, penalties, and other unappropriated funds collected by federal agencies to be transferred to the Treasury, and subject to the appropriations process. “This legislation will bring transparency and oversight back to our government,” said Palmer. “Throughout the years, Congress has granted federal agencies the authority to collect fines, fees and other revenues outside of their appropriated funds, but Congress has had little or no say in the way a substantial portion of these monies are spent, which in some instances has led to agency abuse. Congress must begin reclaiming our Article I authority through the power of the purse and put the money back under Congressional oversight where it belongs. I look forward to the support of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle as we work to restore Article I appropriation and oversight authority to Congress.” A sizable portion of the fines, fees and other revenues are used by agencies to self-fund programs or operations outside of the normal appropriations process. For example, entities such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) receive no appropriated funds from Congress. According to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in 2015 the federal government collected $516 billion in user fees alone. Last year U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) intended to fund President Obama’s unconstitutional executive action on illegal immigration through fines and fees and circumvent the will of Congress. The Agency Accountability Act would allow Congress to effectively regain the power of the purse over the actions of federal agencies and bring more transparency and accountability to the federal government. ###
06.13.2016	For Immediate Release Media Contact June 13, 2016 Cate Cullen (202) 225-4921 Palmer Announces 2016 Service Academy Appointments Washington D.C. – Every year I have the honor and privilege of nominating outstanding students from the Sixth District of Alabama for an appointment to our nation’s service academies. Receiving an appointment to a service academy is a competitive process with each academy having an acceptance rate of less than 20%. In order for a student to apply to attend a service academy, the student must receive a nomination from a Congressman, Senator, the Vice President or the President. The service academies include the United States Military Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United States Coast Guard Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy. I am pleased to announce that the following 11 outstanding individuals from Alabama’s Sixth District received a service academy appointment this year: •Jason Asgalud, from Hoover High School and Marion Military Institute, received an official appointment to the United States Military Academy; •Carter Bankston, from Briarwood Christian High School, received an official appointment to the United States Naval Academy; •Julia Buckner, from Oak Mountain High School, received an official appointment to the United States Naval Academy; •Tanner Carter, from Shelby County High School, received an official appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy; •Madison Cole, from Clay-Chalkville High School, received an official appointment to the United States Military Academy; •Grace Endfinger, from Briarwood Christian High School, received an official appointment to the United States Military Academy; •Michael Hagelskamp, from John Carroll Catholic High School, received an official appointment to the United States Military Academy; •Hunter Holstad, from Oak Mountain High School, received an official appointment to the United States Naval Academy; •Marc Newton, from Briarwood Christian High School, received an official appointment to the United States Air Force Academy; •Richard Salser, from Mortimer Jordan High School and Marion Military Institute, received an official appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy; •David Ingels-Thompson, from Alabama School of Math and Sciences, received an official appointment to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Please join me in congratulating these impressive students and their families as they embark on their service to our great country. If you or someone you know is interested in attending a military service academy, please visit my website, palmer.house.gov, for more information. Eligible applicants must be at least 17 years old, a U.S. citizen, have a strong academic background, proven leadership skills, and be of good moral character. ###
06.07.2016	A Forward Thinking Solution for Puerto Rico June 7, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Palmer (R-AL) offered an amendment to H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA), exempting Puerto Rico from the Jones Act. “The Puerto Rico crisis is mostly one of Puerto Rico’s own making, but Congress is not blameless,” said Palmer. “We do need to act, but in a way that frees Puerto Rico from economy stifling regulations to the maximum extent possible to allow them to rebuild their economy. The Jones Act exemption helps Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory with limited access to cheaper transportation such as trains or trucks, by reducing prices for goods transported by water. Two Puerto Rican economists found that from 1991-2010, the Jones Act cost Puerto Rican residents $16.4 billion. For example a vehicle costs $6,000 more in Puerto Rico than on the mainland, and food is twice as expensive as in Florida.” Exempting territories from the Jones Act has been proven as a stable, successful way to improve a territory’s economic environment. Three U.S. territories have currently been exempted from the Jones Act strengthening their economies and encouraging business development. The U.S. Virgin Islands were exempted in 1992 and today shipping costs from the mainland are nearly half that of Puerto Rico. If exempted, Puerto Rico’s power companies would be able to replace foreign-sourced oil with cheaper, cleaner, U.S.-sourced natural gas. Manufacturers in Puerto Rico would also no longer be at a cost disadvantage relative to Asia and other Latin American countries when shipping goods to the U.S. “Relief from the Jones Act would allow the cost of living in Puerto Rico to decline, allowing residents to stretch their wages further than before,” said Palmer. “If Congress wants to help Puerto Rico we must provide them with opportunities to better their economy and lower their cost of living, not bail them out without any forward thinking solutions.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.31.2016	Rep. Gary Palmer to Hold Breakfast Town Hall in Brent, AL May 31, 2016 For Immediate Release Brent, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will hold a Breakfast Town Hall at 8 a.m. on Thursday, June 2nd in Brent, Alabama. The event is open to the public and will afford the people of the 6th Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. Who: Congressman Gary Palmer and the people of the 6th Congressional District.What: A public breakfast town hall eventWhen: Thursday, June 2nd at 8 a.m.Where: Sawmeal Restaurant, 6880 Alabama 5, Brent, AL 35034Why: An opportunity for the people of the 6th Congressional District to discuss the issues directly with Congressman Palmer ### For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.30.2016	Always Remember May 30, 2016 For Immediate Release Birmingham, AL – On Memorial Day, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) remembers the sacrifices of the brave men and women of the United States Armed Forces: A single moment can change a person’s views on the world and the people around them. April 28th, 2010 did that to me. On that day, in the Helmand province of Afghanistan, Lance Corporal Thomas Rivers, Jr. gave his last full measure of devotion. Rivers was a team leader with 1st Squad, 1st Platoon, Alpha Company, 1st Battalion, 2nd Marines Regiment. As he did every morning, LCpl. Rivers’ father Tom finished his morning Bible study and had prayed for Thomas. Just after 7am, he was in the kitchen making coffee when he heard the sound of a car door shut in front of his home. When he looked out, he saw three Marines walking to his front door. Both Tom and his wife Charon knew what the Marines’ visit meant. It meant another sacrifice had been made by another American solider. LCpl. Rivers wasn’t the only one who made a sacrifice; his family had placed a precious gift on the bloodstained altar of freedom. This time, it was their son. LCpl. Rivers died of injuries sustained from an Improvised Explosive Device (IED). He was on the mission that day because a Marine in his company who had just gotten engaged had been up late celebrating with his friends. Rivers knew he was tired so he told him he would take his place. Along with members of the 1st Squad, LCpl. Rivers was carrying out a mission to prevent the enemy from firing on Patrol Base Sofla. According to the account of Cpl. Daniel A. Blatter, "Rivers set up security in a compound just north of Sofla after covering watch for a fellow Marine moments before. When he took over watch, he triggered an anti-personnel improvised explosive device." While other members of his squad held security, three of his best friends, including another team leader LCpl. Matthew Proctor, rushed to his side to give aid. As LCpl. Proctor held his hand, he and Proctor recited Rivers' favorite scripture verse from Psalm 91: He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty. In an interview two weeks later, Proctor said that Rivers was not only one of his best friends, but also a spiritual mentor to him. Together they had started a Bible study in an effort to reach out to fellow Marines to help them any way they could. But he also said that the best part about Rivers was his warrior-like attitude. Proctor said, "... as Marines, we are all warriors, but Rivers stood out among us all. He was one of the best team leaders in the battalion. And I know for sure, the best team leader in Alpha Company." Soldiers never really die alone. Somewhere there are moms and dads, brothers and sisters and other family and friends who die a little too. American soldiers pride themselves on being a "band of brothers," but they are more than that, they are a band of families, especially when one falls. Our country needs young men like Thomas Rivers, but not just to fight our wars. Men like Thomas and his friend Matthew Proctor have something that is missing from our national character and that is the willingness to sacrifice their own interests for the good of others. LCpl. Rivers knew the danger involved and he knew he could stay out of harm's way that day by simply allowing the exhausted Marine to participate in that mission. Instead, he took his place. If that were all there was to this story, it would be enough. But there is more. As the funeral procession drove down I-65 to the Alabama National Cemetery located at the American Village just east of Montevallo, people lined the interstate overpasses holding signs and waving flags in tribute. They lined the sides of the highway leading to the cemetery where more waited for his arrival. Dave Lewis, a minister at Briarwood Presbyterian Church and a retired Marine, said, "I have been very concerned about the future of this country. But seeing all those people that came out to honor this young man has made me realize that at our core, we are OK. We are still Americans." I hope Dave Lewis is right about the country. I hope we are still a people willing to do the hard work of restoring strength and vitality to our nation, willing to get involved and give of our time and resources to make a difference. I hope there is still a measure of patriot blood flowing in our veins and we still hold that there are "self-evident" truths worth fighting and dying for. Because of LCpl. Rivers, Memorial Day means more to me now, not just because he is the first casualty from the War on Terror to be buried at the Alabama National Cemetery, but because he was also the son of a friend of mine. Memorial Day will not be just another day off work; it will be a reminder of the high price LCpl. Rivers paid and that his family and other service men and women and their families have paid and continue to pay to allow this nation to live in liberty and safety. As I visit the Alabama National Cemetery this Memorial Day, I hope and pray that there is still enough courage left. As someone else said, we cannot expect to be the land of the free unless we are the home of the brave. In that regard, there was no question about Thomas Rivers. ### For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.26.2016	Congressman Palmer Announces Grants for 6th Congressional District Fire Departments May 26, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the following fire departments in Alabama’s 6th Congressional District received Assistance to Firefighters (AFG) grants from the Department of Homeland Security: Verbena Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department - $49,191 Locust Fork Fire and Rescue - $98,881 Southeast Shelby County Emergency Medical Rescue - $176,364 Kellyton Volunteer Fire and Rescue - $51,239 West Jefferson Volunteer Fire Department - $262,286 Hanover Volunteer Fire Department - $23,620 The department’s applications competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. “The men and women in our fire departments put their lives on the line to ensure the safety of our communities,” said Congressman Palmer. “These grants will be used to strengthen their overall level of preparedness and enhance their ability to respond to fire and related hazards. I am proud to support all of our first responders.” Funds awarded under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.17.2016	Obama Administration Rhetoric Does Not Match Reality May 17, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Ben Rhodes, a top Obama aide, evoked executive privilege to avoid attending the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing, yet has plenty of time to speak with the New York Times Magazine about the “echo chamber” he created to successfully pass the Iran Deal this past fall. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) issued the following statement after hearing from the remaining witnesses: “The Obama Administration’s rhetoric on the Iran Deal does not match the reality of the situation,” said Palmer. “Time and time again, the Administration has misled the American people about the access that inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) would have to Iranian nuclear sites. Instead of a strong inspection regime with 24/7 access to Iran’s nuclear facilities, IAEA Director General Amano said the deal restricted their ability to report publicly about Iran’s nuclear program.” “The Iran Deal leaves the path open for Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon, a possibility the Administration and Ben Rhodes said was impossible. Moreover, it is clear the Administration was engaged in negotiations with Iran well before the timeline given to Congress and the American people and withheld information about side deals that they were required by law to provide to Congress.” “In addition, the New York Times Magazine article revealed that Rhodes and others inside the Obama Administration were using this deal to disentangle the U.S. from its established system of alliances with Israel and countries like Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Turkey. It is vital that Congress now asks the important questions regarding the ramifications of leaving a pathway for Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon that further destabilizes the region as well as ask questions about the Obama Administration’s plans to disengage from Israel and our Middle East allies.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.13.2016	Obama Overreaches into our Children's Bathrooms May 13, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Today the Obama Administration issued a new guidance over transgender bathroom/shower access in schools. The guidance is designed to require schools receiving federal funds to allow students to use the facility of the gender with which they identify. In order to force public schools to comply, the Administration has threatened to restrict access to federal education funds for schools or states. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) offered the following statement: “This is yet another example of overreach by the Obama Administration,” Palmer said. “The guidance purports to create an environment that is “supportive” and “safe”. It will do neither. In fact, it will create an environment with much more potential for sexual misconduct and harm. No reasonable person could conclude that forcing school children, particularly adolescents, to share bathrooms and showers with individuals of the opposite sex, no matter how they might self-identify, is a smart idea. The safety implications for sexual predation have been well documented, but this Administration apparently has no concern about the sexual predators.” “This guidance does not have the force of law and schools all over America should reject it. Alabama schools should reject it. The Obama Administration is engaging in an ideological war against our nation that not only is ripping our moral foundations apart, but now threatens our children’s safety and privacy. This action should cause all people of strong faith and moral convictions to come together across racial, religious and political lines to stop it. Members of Congress regardless of political affiliation who have the moral courage and conviction to do so, should stand to together and use every viable tool, including the power of the purse to stop the Administration from bullying states and local schools into adopting practices that the vast majority of Americans reject. This action should be seen for what it is, an act intended to force Americans to conform to the will of an increasingly extremist and provocative Administration.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.04.2016	Birmingham, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced Emery Walton, a student at Indian Springs School, as the winner of the 6th District’s 2016 Art Competition last night. Walton’s artwork titled “Hide and Seek” was selected as the grand prize winner by three local artists: Amy Crews, Melanie Morris and David Nichols. "There's incredible creativity in the sixth district, and really throughout the state of Alabama. Every year this competition displays a great deal of talent, something our district and indeed the state can be proud of,” Palmer said. “I want to especially congratulate Emery Walton for being selected as our overall winner of the Art Competition." Walton, along with the other congressional district winners, will be invited to attend an award ceremony in Washington, DC on June 23rd where her art work will be unveiled before being displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year. 84 students from 24 high schools submitted original artwork for this year’s Congressional Art Competition. Their artwork was displayed at the Riverchase Galleria Mall for a week. For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.29.2016	Since 2013, 86,288 released criminal aliens have committed 231,074 crimes, yet the Obama Administration’s policies and the President’s executive actions continue to jeopardize public safety. Alabama has not been spared by this epidemic. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) seized the opportunity at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing to question the Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Sarah Saldaña, about the 124 illegal aliens in the United States who have committed murders. WATCH HERE For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – The Senate Democrats blocked on Wednesday the Senate from considering an Energy and Water Appropriations bill because they did not want to vote on an amendment offered by Senator Cotton. This amendment would prohibit the Administration from spending $8.6 million to purchase heavy water from Iran. Congressman Palmer (R-AL) is dismayed by the action and offers the following statement: “Before the ink was dry on the nuclear deal, Iran was already violating it by conducting ballistic missile tests. Instead of holding Iran accountable, this Administration has decided to aid and abet Iran by helping to finance the effort. Spending tax dollars to subsidize Iran’s efforts to further de-stabilize the region and pursue a nuclear weapon is irresponsible. America has more than one location that produces heavy water. The Obama Administration and Senate Democrats should be held accountable for these irresponsible actions.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.27.2016	Washington D.C. – On the 5 year anniversary of the tornados that tore through Alabama and killed 252 people, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) offers the following statement: “Today we remember the 252 people who lost their lives 5 years ago when 62 tornadoes ripped through Alabama destroying homes, communities, and families. The tornadoes severely damaged my hometown of Hackleburg, and our community lost 18 friends and neighbors that day,” said Congressman Palmer. “In one of our state’s darkest hours, we saw neighbors come together to rebuild the place they call home, not because they had to but because that’s who the people of Alabama are. As we look back, let us pray for the families of those who lost loved ones as they continue to rebuild their community and their lives.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.27.2016	Birmingham, AL – Each spring, high school students from across Alabama’s 6th Congressional District submit their artwork to the annual Congressional Art Competition. Submitted art work will be on display at Hoover’s Riverchase Galleria Mall (lower level near the entrance to Belk and JC Penney) until Monday, May 2. The winning artist will have his or her work displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and the artist and family members will be invited to attend a reception in Washington D.C. with Congressman Gary Palmer to be recognized for their work, along with the winners from each Congressional District. This year’s competition was judged by local artists Amy Crews, Melanie Morris, and David Nichols. All artists will be recognized and the winner will be announced at a reception hosted by Congressman Palmer at the Hoover Library on Tuesday, May 3. “The Congressional Art Competition encourages students to embrace their creative talents and aids in their personal development,” said Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL). “I look forward to honoring and sharing all of their hard work with our district.” More than 650,000 high school students have participated in the Congressional Art Competition since it began in 1982. What: Congressional Art Competition Reception When: May 3, 2016 at 6-7PM Where: Hoover Library, 200 Municipal Drive For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.03.2016	April 3, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) will hold a Town Hall at 8 a.m. on Wednesday, April 6th in Blount County. The event is open to the public and will afford the people of the 6th Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. Who: Congressman Gary Palmer and the people of the 6th Congressional District.What: A public town hall eventWhen: Wednesday, April 6th at 8 a.m.Where: Little Brick Church, 204 2nd St N, Oneonta, AL 35121Why: An opportunity for the people of the 6th Congressional District to discuss the issues directly with Congressman Palmer ### For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.22.2016	Palmer: Acts This Morning Go Beyond Terror March 22, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement following the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Belgium this morning: “Ann and I send our thoughts and prayers to the victims and their families of the attacks in Brussels. The acts this morning go beyond terror. ISIS has declared war on anyone not willing to submit to its regime. The U.S. and our allies must respond to this growing threat by searching out and destroying those who would engage in such heartless acts. This is the only way to ensure our security and prevent future attacks.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.16.2016	Palmer: Budget Misses Mark March 16, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) released the following statement after the House Budget Committee approved the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget. “My vote for the budget in the Committee today should not surprise anyone. I kept my word to the Chairman that if I were placed on the Committee, I would support moving the process forward for full House consideration. There are some provisions in this budget we can be proud of. Implementing work requirements for able-bodied individuals receiving food stamps and Medicaid is a significant reform for out of control programs. Prohibiting the EPA from implementing the Clean Power Plan, ozone standards, and Waters of the U.S. are important steps in reigning in the significant regulatory overreach of the agency. Unfortunately, the budget adheres to spending levels that I opposed last year, because they were too high. I will not support a budget at the current levels on the House floor. Twenty-two government agencies made close to $125 billion in improper payments in 2014 and we failed to collect at least $380 billion in taxes owed the same year. This alone tells us that spending increases are not necessary. The process has been moved forward, but significant changes are required before I can support this budget or the process any further. The facts are plain and simple: it’s time we get our fiscal house in order.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.01.2016	Palmer: FISS Act Enhances Security of Agencies’ Networks March 1, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform reported favorably Congressman Gary Palmer’s (R-AL) bill H.R. 4361, the Federal Information Systems Safeguards (FISS) Act of 2016, by recorded vote (21-16) today. “Agencies should not be required to collectively bargain in order to take steps to secure data protecting federal agencies information systems and the personal information of federal employees,” Palmer said. “The directors of federal agencies have a responsibility to protect their IT systems and they should be able to carry out that responsibility without unnecessary interference. This bill will enhance the security of Federal information systems, and help prevent cyberattacks.” Following the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) breach, OPM tightened defenses against future cyberattacks by restricting access to Facebook, Gmail and other sites on the OPM federal network. This effort to improve security was hindered by union representatives citing a 2014 ruling by the Federal Labor Relations Authority, a loophole in current federal law preventing agencies from swiftly acting to reduce or eliminate security risks to their information systems. The FISS Act will clarify the authority of agencies to take the appropriate action to enhance the security of their information technology networks and protect critical information databases as well as the information of federal employees. Agencies will not be required to first provide unions with the opportunity to bargain, protecting the security of their networks by preventing lengthy and expensive negotiations. Congressman Palmer with Congressman Chaffetz recently published an editorial describing the problem which can be found here. For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.23.2016	Palmer: Plan to Close Guantanamo Bay Irresponsible February 23, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today the Pentagon submitted a plan to Congress to close the military prison at Guantanamo Bay. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) issued the following statement: “Closing Guantanamo Bay would be irresponsible and detrimental to America’s national security, and the authority to do so resides with Congress, not the President,” Palmer said. “Congress has consistently expressed the position, most recently in the National Defense Authorization Act, that those dangerous detainees should not be brought to facilities in our homeland. Our priority is to keep Americans safe and our enemies off American soil. I strongly urge the President to reconsider this plan and to put the safety of this great nation’s citizens first.”For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.13.2016	Palmer Saddened By Passing of Supreme Court Justice Scalia Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) expresses his sadness on the passing of Justice Antonin Scalia, and offers this comment: “I am saddened to hear the news of Justice Antonin Scalia's passing. Justice Scalia, who was appointed by President Ronald Reagan, was one of our nation's most brilliant and staunchest defenders of the Constitution. “He was an avid defender of life, religious liberty, and the First Amendment. His work in defending against judicial activism can not be overstated. Justice Scalia's influence crossed generational and party lines, inspiring those of us who are committed to restoring constitutional government and the rule of law to our nation. His legal opinions will be studied for years and he will undoubtedly be remembered as one of America's greatest Supreme Court justices. Ann and I will lift up his family and our nation in our prayers as we mourn the passing of this great man.” For any additional questions, contact: Cate Cullen, (202) 225-4921, cate.cullen@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology.
02.10.2016	Palmer Applauds Stay of Clean Power Plan Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, issued the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s decision to stay the EPA's implementation of an overreaching Clean Power Plan designed to cut carbon dioxide emissions from power plants. “Implementing the Clean Power Plan would have far reaching impacts and profoundly negative consequences for American families and the economy,” Palmer said. “It would cause power plant closures, which will result in lost jobs and higher electricity costs. In addition, according to an analysis from the Heritage Foundation, the Clean Power Plan would result in 300 thousand in annual job losses by 2030, a loss of $2.5 trillion in aggregate gross domestic product, and would reduce individual income by $7,000, while having no measurable impact on climate change. According to the EPA’s own estimates, the plan would limit global temperature rise by less than 0.02% of a degree. “I applaud the decision, which is a victory for individuals and families, sparing them, at least temporarily, from the harmful effects of implementation, while challenges to the rule make their way through the judicial process.” For any additional questions, contact: William Smith, (202) 225-4921, william.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology.
02.09.2016	Palmer: President’s Budget Proposal Irresponsible Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s FY 2017 budget proposal. “Increasing spending, while the Congressional Budget Office projects a shortfall in revenues, is not a path to fiscal responsibility, but that’s exactly what President Obama is proposing,” Palmer said. “His priorities do not represent the priorities of the American people. Whether it is the government or an individual, it is irresponsible to continue spending more than you earn. “A responsible budget would balance without gimmicks, would cut spending, and would not raise taxes on the hard working American people. President Obama’s proposal fails in every category.” According to the House Budget Committee, President Obama’s proposal would increase spending by $2.5 trillion and raise taxes by $3.4 trillion over the ten year budget window. For any additional questions, contact: William Smith, (202) 225-4921, william.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology.
02.05.2016	Rep. Palmer Congratulates U.S. Military Academy Nominees February 3, 2015 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – The Office of U.S. Rep. Gary Palmer (AL-06) has nominated 23 young men and women to America’s great service academies. They were recognized in a recent ceremony with their families and members of the nomination selection committee. “I’m grateful to these young men and women for their sincere desire to serve their country,’’ Palmer said. “We need a great group of young men and women who want to serve in our armed services. We need people of character and of courage who have a vision for our country. I think we have that in this group.” These students received nominations to attend one of the U.S. Military Academies: United States Military Academy (West Point); the United States Naval Academy; the United States Air Force Academy; the United States Merchant Marine Academy; and the United States Coast Guard Academy. A picture of 20 of the 23 nominees is attached. Their names and high schools are: Back Row L-R: Tanner Carter, Shelby County High; Brooks Garrett, Evangel Classical; John Goolsby, Thompson High; Carter Bankston, Briarwood Christian; Gavin Allen, Spain Park High; Madison Cole, Clay-Chalkville High; Hunter Holstad, Oak Mountain High; John Lusk, Westminster at Oak Mountain; William Morhard, Vestavia Hills High; Elliott Chen, The Altamont School. Front Row L-R: Jason Agsalud, Hoover High; Grace Endfinger, Briarwood Christian; Nick Dutton, Homewood High; Marc Newton, Briarwood Christian; Imani King-Berry, Clay-Chalkville High; Congressman Gary Palmer; Ford Patronas, Spain Park High; Morgan Long, Vestavia Hills High; Michael Hagelskamp, John Carroll Catholic High; Kaley Ann Fulton, Hewitt-Trussville High; Julia Buckner, Oak Mountain High. Not pictured: David Mock, Chelsea High (currently attending Auburn University); Jon Paul Ogle, JP Pennington High; Richard Salser, Mortimer Jordan High (currently attending Marion Military Institute). For any additional questions, contact: Ray Melick, (205) 968-1290, Ray.Melick@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.04.2016	Palmer Votes to Override Presidential Veto of Bill to Repeal Obamacare February 2, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) expressed disappointment in the fact that his Democratic colleagues refused to provide a sufficient number of votes to override President Obama’s veto of H.R. 3762, Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015, a budget “reconciliation” bill that repeals critical components of the Affordable Care Act and ends funding for Planned Parenthood. “This is another missed opportunity to protect life and provide the American people common sense choices in their healthcare decisions,” said Palmer. “The failure to repeal this burdensome and unaffordable Act lies solely at the feet of my Democratic colleagues and the President. The American people, for now, will continue to pay more for healthcare and receive fewer benefits, but the fight to repeal this law does not end today.” H.R. 3762 would have repealed the individual and employer mandates, repealed all taxes associated with the original legislation, repealed Medicaid expansion, premium tax credits, and cost-sharing subsidies after two years. It would have also ended federal funding to Planned Parenthood for one year by prohibiting Medicaid reimbursements to the organization. View Congressman Palmer’s floor speech about the vote here. For any additional questions, contact: William Smith, (202) 225-4921, william.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology.
02.04.2016	Palmer Announces Membership in Article 1 Project February 3, 2016 For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) is a member of the Article I Project (A1P), a group of Senators and Representatives led by Senator Mike Lee. Article I of the Constitution vests all legislative powers in the Congress of the United States, and the goal of A1P is to restore constitutional governance by reclaiming the legislative power from the executive branch, reasserting the power of the purse and exercising regulatory accountability. “Although President Obama is guilty of overreaching, Congress is also responsible for ceding some of its authority to federal agencies,” Palmer said. “Every member of Congress is an elected representative. We’re not elected bystanders and we’re accountable to the people; federal agencies are not. Our Founding Fathers wisely separated the powers to avoid tyranny, and now more than ever, Congress must not only protect, but exercise the powers it has been given, including controlling the purse. I’m honored to be a part of A1P and look forward to putting forth a bold agenda to restore constitutional governance.” A1P members will focus on legislative reforms designed to reduce regulatory burden, limit the executive authority, and create budget reforms which restrain, not excel spending. Informational one pagers about the Project are attached. For any additional questions, contact: William Smith, (202) 225-4921, william.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology.
02.04.2016	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, participated in a hearing today that examined the EPA’s failure to intervene in the drinking water crisis that left the citizens of Flint, Michigan exposed to lead poisoning. The EPA had been aware that the city’s water systems had inadequate corrosion protection but took no direct action for nearly one year. "Families are suffering because of the malfeasance of the EPA, but no one within the organization is willing to accept responsibility,” Palmer said. Instead of trying to regulate rain water in ditches, the EPA should focus on the responsibilities it has been given, like updating regulations associated with the Safe Water Drinking Act. Our focus now should be on fixing the problems so that people never have to appear again before this Committee, with their children, to try to get the government to do what it’s supposed to do.” Congressman Palmer’s questions of witnesses can be seen here. For any additional questions, contact: William Smith, (202) 225-4921, william.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology.
01.20.2016	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gary Palmer (AL-06) is hosting a reception to recognize the young men and women who received nominations to the U.S. Military Academies, and who desire to serve our nation. Congressman Palmer and the Nomination Committee will both be present. Who: The Military Academy Nominees, Congressman Gary Palmer, and the Nominating CommitteeWhere: Heardmont Park Senior Center, 5458 Cahaba Valley Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35242When: Thursday, January 21st, 6:00-7PM Refreshments will be provided. Names and information about the nominees will be released after the reception. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.13.2016	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Interior and the House Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Environment, voted for S.J. Res. 22 which would nullify the so-called “Waters of the United States” rule that allows for onerous environmental regulations that apply to even the smallest bodies of water, such as ponds and ditches, which will cause great harm to many farmers and ranchers. “Reining in executive branch overreach, particularly at the EPA which is one of the worst offenders, remains one of my highest priorities in Congress,” Palmer said. “The EPA has not listened to the public, which overwhelmingly rejects the idea that the EPA should be able to regulate ponds and ditches and other small bodies of water on private land. This is another example of EPA overreach and I am pleased to join my colleagues in voting to stop it.” Palmer previously called on Congress to take further action to stop the Waters of the US Rule. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.07.2016	Washington D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) supported H.R. 712, the Sunshine for Regulatory Degrees and Settlements Act, which passed the house today. This bill is aimed at curbing so called “Sue and Settle” abuses in the regulatory system, whereby an outside entity, oftentimes a special interest group, sues a regulatory agency, and the agency agrees to a settlement that would accomplish the agency’s regulatory goals without going through the normal regulatory process. “Sue and settle lawsuits represent the worst of our federal government, “ Palmer said. “Sue and settle lawsuits make our already out-of-control regulatory regime worse by removing the ability of most Americans threatened by the regulation to have any input in the process. The EPA in particular has abused this process, choosing not to defend itself in 60 lawsuits from special interest advocacy groups, which resulted in more than 100 new regulations. “While I believe this bill should go further, it does take steps to improve the process and invites more transparency and accountability into this shadowy process. Congress should take this as a first step toward further changes in our out-of-control regulatory regime.” H.R. 712 would not allow for any consent decree to be filed until after interested parties have had the opportunity to intervene in the legislation and join settlement negotiations. It would also require the Attorney General, or other relevant agency head, to certify that he has approved relevant consent decrees. The bill also requires courts to take into account public comments and compliance with regulatory process statutes when approving consent decrees. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.06.2016	Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) applauded the passage of Senate amendments to H.R. 3762, a budget “reconciliation” bill that repeals critical components of Obamacare. The bill also places a one-year moratorium on Planned Parenthood funding. The bill will now go to President Obama’s desk. “Obamacare is a massive federal takeover of our health care industry that takes away choices from people and limits our freedom, “ Palmer said. “What’s more, it has been a failure. When Obamacare was passed, the American people were told if they liked their doctor, they could keep their doctor. They were told that medical care costs would be cut. They were told that Obamacare would reduce the deficit. They were told that premium prices would drop. They were told that it would not fund abortion, nor force anyone to violate their conscience. We now know the opposite of all these things is true. “The House has voted to repeal Obamacare before, but because of opposition by Senate Democrats, it has never gone further. Now, through the reconciliation process, both bodies voted to repeal major components of Obamacare and send it to President Obama’s desk. “I have no illusions about whether the President will sign the bill. But by putting this in front of him, Congress has proven it has the will and the ability to repeal Obamacare, and put that choice before the American people when it comes time to elect a new President.” H.R. 3762 would repeal the individual and employer mandates, repeal all tax hikes associated with the original legislation, repeal Medicaid expansion, premium tax credits, and cost-sharing subsidies after two years. Palmer previously supported a stand-alone bill that placed a moratorium on Planned Parenthood funding. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.05.2016	Washington D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), a gun owner and a supporter of the Second Amendment, condemned President Obama’s executive orders concerning firearms as being both beyond the scope of his Constitutional power and ineffective at stopping gun violence. “The President’s Executive Actions are beyond the scope of his Constitutional powers,” Palmer said. “This President has developed a pattern over the past seven years of ignoring the Constitution whenever it suits him. This is wrong. Nothing in the President’s Executive Actions would have done anything to stop the most recent incidents of gun violence. “I have always been and will continue to be a strong defender of our Second Amendment rights, and will fight any attempt to infringe upon them. Executive actions are not law and, on January 20, 2017, can be rescinded by the next President.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
12.18.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the House Budget Committee, voted against H.R. 2029, the “Omnibus” spending bill, because it doesn’t abide by the budget resolution passed by the House and it failed to include necessary policy corrections. “A spending bill should reflect the priorities of our nation,” Palmer said. “This $1.1 trillion bill does not. It continues to pile debt on our children without sufficient reforms. “Furthermore, it fails to include numerous policy priorities that should have been included. Recently, a veto-proof majority of the House passed legislation to strengthen the vetting of Syrian refugees. This reform should have been included in this bill, but was not. This bill also allows funds to continue to flow to Planned Parenthood and does nothing to defund Obama’s unlawful administrative amnesty. “The bill does have a few good provisions, like lifting the ban on crude oil exports, which I have long supported. Unfortunately even this significant victory is overcome by the numerous deficiencies. “The process to get to this point was no better than the underlying legislation it produced. I hope that going forward, the process will be different.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
12.17.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing entitled “Terrorist Travel: Vetting for National Security Concerns,” Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), questioned Obama Administration officials about threats from terrorists entering our country by taking advantage of our visa laws. This threat has become more urgent after the recent attack in San Bernardino, California, where one perpetrator, Tashfeen Malik, was a foreign national who was cleared to enter the U.S. by exploiting weak points in our visa laws. “National security is the first and most important responsibility of the federal government,” Palmer said. “This hearing demonstrated that, when it comes to this Administration thoroughly evaluating persons seeking to come to the U.S. as refugees or with a visa, there are still too many holes in the bucket. Ensuring that people seeking entry to the US are thoroughly vetted should be one of Congress’s top priorities in the next year.” In response to questions by Congressman Palmer, Administration officials stated that current law dictates that refugees are granted citizenship more quickly than other legal immigrants seeking citizenship. You can watch Congressman Palmer’s questions at the hearing below:https://youtu.be/-DHvtRgYH0c Palmer previously supported H.R. 158 the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act, which restricted access to certain high-risk individuals to visa waivers to come to the United States, and provided incentives for certain countries to provide more timely intelligence on potential terrorist threats. Palmer has also repeatedly expressed skepticism of passing any spending bill that would fund our current refugee programs without a provision ensuring that the FBI certifies that all refugees coming to America have been thoroughly vetted and not deemed to be a threat. He is also a co-sponsor of H.R. 3314, introduced by Rep. Brian Babin, which would create a pause on admitting more refugees until Congress passes a joint resolution giving the Department of Homeland Security the authority to admit refugees. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
12.10.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), notes the coming end of the 21st session of the Conference of Parties, part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Paris, France, and calls on the Obama Administration to submit any agreement reached to the Senate for ratification, as required under the Constitution. This week, Congressman Palmer gave a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives on executive overreach, including discussing the signals by the Obama Administration that it intends to attempt to work around Congress concerning an agreement pursuant to the Paris talks. You can watch the speech by clicking below:https://youtu.be/rhvZrIbVqQU​“As the people’s elected representatives - and I want to emphasize elected Representatives and not elected bystanders - it should be one of our top priorities to reassert Congress as the originator of laws and reassert Congressional accountability for the regulations issued by federal agencies by requiring a Congressional vote on the regulations that have a significant impact on the economy.” A full transcript of his speech is below. Palmer has been a consistent critic of executive overreach. He has recently focused on the EPA’s attempts to regulate greenhouse gasses. Last month, Palmer introduced H.R. 3880, the Stopping EPA Overreach Act, which would strip the EPA of the authority to regulate so-called “greenhouse gasses.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. Text of Speech: Thank you Mr. Speaker, and I want to thank my colleague from Pennsylvania, Mr. Rothfus, and I want to commend my colleague and friend Mr. Kelley for his eloquent and passionate defense of Constitutional government. It’s not just the Administration’s efforts to ratify something and bypass Congress without any input from us, but they are also making laws through agencies such as EPA. We’re engaged right now in a debate over the Clean Power Plan, which is a reiteration of Cap and Trade, it’s all about regulating greenhouse gasses. And they’ve started this process because in 2007, the Supreme Court, in a 5-4 decision, said the Clean Air Act gave the EPA the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Not everyone agrees with that. As you see here on the easel, I have a quote from former Michigan Representative John Dingell, and this is what he had to say about the Supreme Court’s decision in Massachusetts v. EPA: “Like most members of this committee, I think the Supreme Court came up with a very much erroneous decision on whether the Clean Air Act covers greenhouse gases. Like many of the members of this committee I was present when we wrote that legislation. We thought it was clear enough that it did not, that we didn’t clarify it thinking that even the Supreme Court was not stupid enough to make that finding.” I want to state for the record, Mr. Speaker, that I am in no way making personal references to the members of the court, particularly the five who voted for that decision. That’s Mr. Dingell’s opinion. But I think it’s clear that it was never Congress’s intent to allow the EPA to do this. The point here is, we’ve had a debate over regulating greenhouse gasses; we did that in 2010 in the form of the Cap and Trade bill. And Congress, with Democrat majorities in both houses, said “No.” And yet the President is intent on making the United States party to a legally binding agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that will have almost no measurable impact on global temperatures. The EPA has admitted that in testimony before the Science Committee. This is basically a public relations effort to encourage other nations to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. And as Mr. Rothfus has pointed out, the cost on the American economy, particularly low income families, will be enormous; also on single income households and senior citizens. Even the former lead author of the International Panel on Climate Change report, Philip Lloyd, who is one of the former lead authors, asserted in a new paper that there is a strong likelihood that the major portion of the observed warming is due to natural variation. If it’s due to natural variation, there is little to nothing we can do about it. Congress has been bypassed by the EPA and other federal agencies for too long. It’s time to stand up and reassert ourselves as the sole body empowered to make law under the Constitution. The debate over greenhouse gasses and climate change is not the central issue. This is really about the EPA and this administration usurping the authority of Congress to make law. As my friend from Pennsylvania, Mr. Kelly, explained, the issue is that the authority of Congress - and consequently the right of Americans to representation - to writes this nations laws is being seriously diminished. Under our Constitution, Congress makes the law, and is held accountable by the people through elections. The effort to restrain the EPA is more than a policy position on an issue, but a matter of the fidelity to the Constitution and the clear separation of powers doctrine that is essential to the successful functioning of our Government. As the people’s elected representatives - and I want to emphasize elected Representatives and not elected bystanders - it should be one of our top priorities to reassert Congress as the originator of laws and reassert Congressional accountability for the regulations issued by federal agencies by requiring a Congressional vote on the regulations that have a significant impact on the economy. This would have a devastating impact on the economy. By doing so, not only would the economy benefit, but the representative and accountable government will be restored in the process. I urge all my colleagues to support my friend from Pennsylvania’s resolution to require that the President submit any agreement reached in Paris to the Senate for their advice and consent. I yield the balance of my time.
12.08.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on Interior, attended a hearing on the Department of the Interior’s (DOI) recently proposed Stream Protection Rule, which would have significant negative effects on energy production. The original version of the rule, passed in 1979, created a buffer zone around year-round streams near mining operations. The new, more stringent rule would have significant negative economic effects. Estimates say it could cost up to 280,000 Americans their jobs. “Coal Miners are not made-up stats, they are real people,” Palmer said. “The DOI needs to come to Alabama and talk to some of the coal mining families, particularly the kids, who are facing the prospect of Christmas with no presents; or young people who are withdrawing from college. Instead, the Department of the Interior has frozen out states and industry in the rulemaking process.” You can watch Congressman Palmer’s questions at the hearing below:https://youtu.be/4squ-ihTlFo For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
12.01.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) supported S.J. Res 23 and S.J. Res 24, which are aimed at stopping the EPA’s New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) and Clean Power Plan (CPP) regulations that will have significant negative effects on the economy. These resolutions are brought pursuant to the Congressional Review Act, which creates an expedited procedure by which Congress can vote to disapprove of regulations that have an economic impact of more than $100 million. The Senate has already passed these resolutions. “The EPA’s regulations on power plants are well beyond the authority Congress delegated to the agency,” Palmer said, “If the President vetoes these resolutions and these regulations are allowed to stay in place, they will significantly increase energy costs for millions of American households and will be particularly hard on low-income families and senior citizens. “In addition to these resolutions of disapproval, Congress should affirmatively remove the EPA’s ability to regulate so-called greenhouse gasses, authority Congress never granted to the agency in the first place. That is why I have introduced H.R. 3880, The Stopping EPA Overreach Act of 2015, which would permanently remove the ability of the EPA to pass these kinds of regulations.” The EPA’s New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) requires new power plants to meet CO2 emissions standards using technology that is not commercially viable and is not being used by any commercial-scale coal-fired power plant in the U.S. The Clean Power Plan (CPP) requires existing power plants to make massive, unattainable cuts to carbon emissions that will cause large increases in the price of energy. Palmer introduced The Stopping EPA Overreach Act in November. It currently has 122 co-sponsors. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
11.30.2015	Washington D.C. – U.S. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) is pleased that Congress passed H.R. 3490, the NCFI Authorization Act, which fully authorizes The National Computer Forensics Institute in Hoover, Alabama. “The National Computer Forensics Institute is a one-of-a-kind facility that trains scores of officers, prosecutors and judges from all 50 states in cyber-security, and has graduates from hundreds of agencies,” Palmer said. “I am pleased that the House supports its full authorization.” Palmer previously noted his co-sponsorship of H.R. 3490. The bill was approved in the House today by a voice vote. You can watch Palmer’s floor speech on the bill here: https://youtu.be/iGGFkflSOEY​For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
11.19.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), supported H.R. 3189, The Fed Oversight Reform and Modernization (FORM) Act. This bill increases transparency at the Federal Reserve, requiring the organization to explain its decisions, while protecting it from excessive politicization. It would also place tighter controls on the Federal Reserve’s ability to conduct bailouts. “Our government is founded on the idea of checks and balances,” Palmer said. “Under the Obama Administration, the Federal Reserve has gained additional powers without additional checks. This bill would increase checks and balances on the Federal Reserve and ensure it works in a less arbitrary fashion, creating more predictability and more transparency, while still allowing for a monetary policy that is not unduly influenced by politics.” Among other things, this bill would require the Federal Reserve to generate a monetary policy rule that would show why a particular monetary policy is being adopted. This would provide greater predictability and understanding among the public. It would also reform emergency lending powers (a.k.a. “bailouts”) by limiting them to when an “unusual and exigent circumstances exist that pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States,” which is stricter than the current standard. It also requires five out of seven members of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, and nine out of twelve District Federal Reserve Bank Presidents, approve of an action before authorizing any emergency lending.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
11.18.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), supported H.R. 1737, Reforming CFPB Indirect Auto Financing Guidance Act. This bill would revoke the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) 2013 auto lending guidance bulletin, which has hampered the availability of indirect auto loans (loans facilitated by car dealers), particularly to the most vulnerable. Using a flawed model that bases decisions on what loans are authorized using nothing more than last names and zip codes, CFPB’s enforcement has led to rising costs for consumers. The bill was supported by a wide, bipartisan majority. “The CFPB is an agency with very little accountability, to Congress or even the President,” Palmer said. “Because of this, it should come as no great surprise that its power is being abused. Congress should take action to stop these kinds of damaging regulations that hurt the consumers.” Because the CFPB lacks accountability and is prone to abuse its authority, Congressman Palmer previously co-sponsored a bill to repeal the CFPB entirely. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
11.10.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) joins Americans all over the country celebrating our nation’s veterans this Veterans Day, and offers the following statement: “I want to wholeheartedly express my appreciation to each and every one of our veterans, both in Alabama and throughout America,” Palmer said. “Our national anthem calls the America the ‘land of the free and the home of the brave.’ A popular rephrasing of that is that America is ‘Land of the free because of the brave.’ It remains free because brave citizens choose to join our armed forced and serve their country sacrificially.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
11.03.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Environment and the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on the Interior, introduced H.R. 3880, the Stopping EPA Overreach Act of 2015. This bill would remove the ability of the EPA to regulate so-called “greenhouse gasses,” an authority the EPA assumed after Massachusetts v. EPA, a controversial 5-4 Supreme Court decision which interpreted the Clean Air Act to allow regulations of common and necessary compounds that were not contemplated when the act was originally passed. “The Stopping EPA Overreach Act of 2015 will reassert that Congress never intended that the EPA would regulate greenhouse gasses,” Palmer said. “The EPA has repeatedly claimed fighting climate change as justification for crafting onerous regulations that limit carbon dioxide, water vapor, and other compounds that are both essentially harmless and in fact required for life to flourish. This is done using statutes Congress never contemplated could be read to regulate such common and essential substances. This bill reasserts Congress’s authority by prohibiting the EPA from unilaterally continuing to cause severe economic damage by regulating greenhouse gases.” In addition to amending the Clean Air Act to clarify that that the term “air pollutant” does not include the greenhouse gasses listed in the bill, the bill also would clarify that nothing in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, or the Solid Waste Disposal Act authorizes or requires the regulation of climate change or global warming. The bill also would require the EPA to provide an analysis of the impact on employment in the United States before proposing or finalizing any regulation, rule, or policy. It would also require any proposal that will have a negative impact on employment be approved by Congress and signed by the President. The bill has 107 original co-sponsors.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.29.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), supported Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) for Speaker of the House. “Speaker Ryan has been granted the opportunity by a majority of his colleagues to lead the House,” Palmer said. “I believe he is capable. This has never been about the person or personality, but about process, about restoring regular order and having the House function as the Founders designed it to and as it should. We can restore constitutional governance, representative government, which is what we have all been elected to do. After hearing Speaker Ryan’s speech, I believe we have taken a major step forward. I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan and all of my colleagues as we pursue this goal.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.28.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the House Budget Committee, voted against H.R. 1314, The Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015. The bill would increase spending caps established by the Budget Control Act (a.k.a. sequestration) for the fiscal year 2016-2017 by a combined $80 billion, divided between defense and non-defense spending, and suspends the debt limit until March 15, 2017, allowing for approximately $1.5 trillion in new federal debt. “Our national debt currently exceeds $18 trillion and this budget deal would guarantee it increases,” Palmer said. “It continues the too familiar trend of spending money now with hopes of finding ways to pay for it in the future. For instance, $35 billion of the 'pay-for’s' occur in 2025, which is simply unacceptable. Instead of passing this bill, which pushes us in the wrong direction by increasing spending and raising the debt limit, we should have answered the call of the American people to reduce the national debt and balance our budget.” “Equally as bad is the fact that this agreement was negotiated behind closed doors with few participants at the last minute. ”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.22.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Environment and the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on the Interior, both of which have jurisdiction over the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), sent a letter along with Science, Space and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith concerning the EPA’s Clean Power Plan (CPP) to the Governors and Attorneys General of all 50 states. The letter urges the states to delay submitting a State Implementation Plan (SIP) until all of the numerous legal challenges to the rule are exhausted. Submitting a SIP is optional under the law. “The Clean Power Plan will do enormous harm to America’s economy, necessitating the loss of millions of jobs and substantially increasing household energy costs that disproportionately hurt low-income and fixed income families,” Palmer said. “The hope that the CPP will ‘trigger global action’ on climate change is an insufficient reason to damage the economic opportunities and future aspirations of millions of Americans. The Supreme Court recently halted the EPA’s Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS), since it did not adequately consider the costs of the rule along with the benefits. Additionally, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has also enjoined the EPA’s Waters of the U.S. rule. States are not required to help implement this onerous rule and they should not do so, at least until the rule’s legal future is decided, since they risk incurring billions in costs for a rule that may not survive legal scrutiny.” EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy recently testified before the Science, Space and Technology Committee and said the value of the Clean Power Plan was not measured by potential temperature drops, but “(M)easured in showing strong domestic action which can actually trigger global action.” According to data provided by the Energy Information Administration, the Clean Power Plan will lower U.S. GDP by nearly one trillion dollars in the next 25 years. Former Obama Administration Assistant Secretary Charles McConnell estimates that the rule will result in less than .001% drop in global warming by 2050. The text of the letter is below: Dear ___________, The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recently released the final version of its Clean Power Plan, intended to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants. The negative economic consequences of the Clean Power Plan are well documented. The plan increases energy prices, decreases employment, and has almost no measurable impact on climate change. The plan would be particularly harmful to lower income American families, who spend a disproportionate amount of their earnings on energy. The EPA would like states to believe that they have only two options: submit a State Implementation Plan (SIP) or become subject to a more stringent Federal Implementation Plan. However, there is strong reason to believe that the courts will ultimately rule that the Clean Power Plan oversteps the EPA’s legal authority. The U.S. Supreme Court’s June ruling on the Administration’s Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) should serve as a lesson to states considering submitting a plan. The Supreme Court rebuked the Administration for failing to adequately consider the costs of this rule. However, the decision came too late for those utilities that have already implemented costly pollution control measures or decided to shut down power plants altogether. The Clean Air Act gives states the right to submit a SIP at any point in the process. We urge you not to move forward until after legitimate legal challenges to the Clean Power Plan have been resolved. Sincerely, Gary Palmer Lamar Smith Member of Congress Member of Congress For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.22.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), who supported the National Defense Authorization Act of 2016 (NDAA) in the House, strongly disagrees with the Obama Administration’s veto of the NDAA and urges Congress to override his veto. “With his veto, the President is not only placing our national security at risk by failing to authorize funding for our military, but is undermining our national security by demanding more domestic spending that further increases our national debt,” Palmer said. “As former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Michael Mullen said, ‘The most significant threat to our national security is our debt.’ “The NDAA was passed with overwhelming bipartisan majorities in both the House and Senate, and I support overriding the President’s veto.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee and a longtime supporter of expanded educational options, voted for H.R. 10, the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results Reauthorization Act. This bill would reauthorize the District of Columbia’s Opportunity Scholarship Program (DC OSP) which gives scholarships to low-income families in the District of Columbia to attend a private school of their choice. “Ensuring our children receive a good education is essential, both for each individual child and for the future of our nation,” Palmer said. “But for many of our most disadvantaged children, a clear pathway to receiving a good education is hampered by being unable to choose the school that is right for them. This law would ensure the continuation of the already successful DC Opportunity Scholarship Program. “I am a longtime advocate for more options in education. I was pleased when Alabama recently enacted a tax credit scholarship program that is similar in some ways to the DC Opportunity Scholarship Program. I am hopeful that the continued success of these programs will lead to more educational choices for all.” The DC OSP provides a set amount of disadvantaged students (below 185 percent of the poverty level) who live in the District of Columbia a scholarship worth about $8,300 for K-8 and 12,300 for high school. For the 2013-2014 school year, OSP participants had a graduation rate of 89%, compared with 58% of those attending public schools in DC. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the House Budget Committee, is a cosponsor of H.R. 692, the Default Prevention Act. Introduced by Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA), the bill passed the House today by a vote of 235 to 194. This bill would ensure that the debt of the United States is always paid, and default is always avoided, by ensuring that the Treasury can always borrow for the sole purpose of paying the principal and interest on the debt held by the public, or the Social Security Trust Fund. “The federal government needs to get its fiscal house in order,” Palmer said. “Instead, for far too long, we have simply lifted the debt ceiling every time it has gotten in the way of more spending, because the specter of defaulting on our sovereign debt and Social Security recipients not being paid hamper attempts to change our spending habits. This bill would ensure that those obligations are always covered, while not allowing the threat of default to hamstring those who are not inclined to lift the debt ceiling without serious reforms.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.09.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, applauds Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in issuing a nationwide stay blocking EPA’s Waters of the U.S. rule. A group of 18 states have sued, arguing the rule is well beyond EPA’s legal authority to issue. “I am pleased that the Sixth Circuit has placed a stay on this onerous rule,” Palmer said. “It is well beyond the authority that Congress delegated to the EPA. This rule would allow the EPA to regulate almost any body of water, even ditches and isolated bodies on private land. This rule faces strong legal challenges. A nationwide stay ensures this rule is not implemented while litigation is ongoing, which will protect the American economy from EPA’s overreach.” Palmer has previously expressed his opposition to the Waters of the U.S. rule (also known as the Clean Water Rule), and supported H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, which would block the rule’s implementation. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.09.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, voted for H.R. 702, the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, a bill which would end the ban on the export of crude oil. With advances in oil extraction recovery technology creating major increases in U.S. oil and the discovery of major oil fields in the United States, the ban now hampers America’s ability to compete in international energy markets. “I am strongly in favor of ending the ban on the export of crude oil,” Palmer said. “America is in the middle of the energy renaissance. New technology has led to extensive new energy production and America is now the biggest producer of crude oil in the world, providing jobs for many Americans and lower prices for everyone. However, we are not taking advantage of enormous economic benefits because of the crude oil export ban, which compromises American competitiveness and forces American families to spend more on energy. ” As a member of the Budget Committee, Palmer successfully fought to add a policy statement that called for ending the crude oil export ban to the fiscal year 2016 budget. Palmer supported the budget, which passed in March by a vote of 228-199. According to IHS, a business consulting firm, ending the ban on crude oil will create an average of 394,000 additional U.S. jobs between 2016 and 2030. Management consulting firm ICF International finds that removing the ban would reduce fuel costs an estimated $5.8 billion per year, up to a 2.3 cents per-gallon price decline, which would directly benefit American families. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.07.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, voted for H.Res. 461, Establishing a Select Investigative Panel of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. Introduced by Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC), this resolution establishes panel to investigate issues surrounding fetal tissue procurement, federal funding that goes to abortion providing organizations, and medical procedures in the case of children born alive during an attempted abortion. The legislation passed by a vote of 242 to 184. “We have an obligation to protect the unborn and should take every opportunity to do so,” Palmer said. “This includes the congressional oversight that is necessary to make sure that tax dollars are not used by Planned Parenthood or any other organization to profit from the sale of fetal body parts, or that fails to follow laws aimed at protecting born alive infants. This resolution will create a panel to focus on that specific goal.” This investigative panel was prompted by the videos made by the Center for Medical Progress, which contain strong evidence that Planned Parenthood and its affiliates broke the law by engaging in illegal sale of fetal body parts, and by failing to give lifesaving treatment to children born alive during an attempted abortion. Subsequent hearings have also raised questions about Planned Parenthood’s proliferate spending on travel, parties and executive salaries, and use of funds for political purposes in light of the federal funds they receive. Congressman Palmer previously supported legislation to defund Planned Parenthood and protect infants born alive after an abortion. He also supported efforts to ensure states could legally withhold Medicaid funding from entities that provide abortions, and called for an independent counsel to investigate Planned Parenthood. Finally, Congressman Palmer questioned Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards at an Oversight and Government Reform Committee hearing on Planned Parenthood’s federal funding, particularly in light of their political activity and exorbitant spending.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
10.01.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) voted for H.R. 3457, the Justice for Victims of Iranian Terrorism Act. Introduced by Rep. Pat Meehan (R-PA) and co-sponsored by Palmer, this bill would prohibit the lifting of any U.S. sanctions targeting Iran unless Iran pays an estimated $43.5 billion it owes in unpaid judgements as ordered by U.S. Courts, the result of civil actions taken by victims of Iranian sponsored terrorism. U.S. courts have held Iran liable for a number of attacks carried out by its terrorist proxies, including the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Marine Barracks in Beirut and 1996 bombing of the Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia, which together killed 260 American servicemen. “The recent ‘Iran Deal’, allows for billions in sanctions relief without compensating victims of Iranian sponsored terrorism,” Palmer said. “This is wrong. Iran is the world’s leading state-sponsor of terrorism, and they should not receive one cent of sanctions relief, especially before they pay for the damage they have caused to so many innocent victims.” Congressman Palmer has consistently opposed the Join Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPA) executive agreement, known as the ‘Iran Deal,’ and has previously called on the Administration to provide the text of the ‘side deals’ concerning the agreement. He has also co-sponsored legislation that would require the deal to be treated as a treaty. A video including information on numerous victims of Iranian sponsored terrorism can be viewed here:https://youtu.be/DJwQ3ivy2Lg Palmer also supported the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which passed today. The House previously passed the NDAA, which was later passed in the Senate, with some modifications. You can read his previous statement here. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.29.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), participated in the Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s hearing on Planned Parenthood’s federal funding. Palmer questioned Planned Parenthood Federation of America’s President, Cecile Richards, about the group’s extensive political activities. You can watch his questions here:https://youtu.be/44cEWWfbmYo "Planned Parenthood claims to be dedicated to women's health, but they are also a well-funded and powerful political operation,” Palmer said. “Planned Parenthood’s political arm spends a significant amount of its time and money helping to elect candidates who they know will keep sending taxpayers money to them. While supposedly nonpartisan, Planned Parenthood's political action committee (PAC) is in fact almost totally partisan. Its most recent report indicates that Planned Parenthood's PAC gave 100% of the money to Democratic candidates in 2014, 99% in 2012 and 98% in the 2010 election cycle. “For a long time, Planned Parenthood has spent billions of taxpayer dollars when in fact it could be argued that they do not need the money. According to their own reports, Planned Parenthood's net revenue for last year was over $127 million. They also show $1.4 billion in net assets while also holding an endowment worth more than $100 million. “Over the years Planned Parenthood has engaged in excessive spending for travel, entertainment, fundraising and executive salaries. For instance, there are 28 Planned Parenthood executives whose salaries are over $200,000, which is more than the pay for every member the President's cabinet. Eleven more Planned Parenthood executives make over $300,000 per year which is more than the Speaker of the House, every Supreme Court Justice, including the Chief Justice, and more than the Vice President of United States. Five other Planned Parenthood executives earn over $400,000 per-year, which is more than the president of the United States. Ms. Richards earns over $520,000 per-year. "Considering that Planned Parenthood has received billions of dollars from the federal government, there should be a much closer examination of their political activities, as well as a closer examination a Planned Parenthood's exorbitant spending." For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.29.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), is a cosponsor of H.R.3495, the Women's Public Health and Safety Act. Introduced by Rep. Sean Duffy (R-WI), this bill allows states to exclude organizations that perform abortions from participating in Medicaid programs. Congressman Palmer voted for this bill on the House floor today. The bill passed by a vote of 236 to 193. “We are told that no federal funding goes to abortion, but the truth is that millions of dollars are given every year to organizations that perform abortions,” Palmer said. “Money is fungible. A dollar that goes to a legitimate purpose is a dollar that is freed up to pay for something else, including possibly abortion. I do not believe that any organization that performs abortions should receive federal dollars. I certainly believe that states like Alabama should be able to exclude any such organizations from their Medicaid programs.” Several states, including Alabama, have faced lawsuits for terminating their Medicaid contracts with Planned Parenthood, an organization that provides abortions. These cases are still pending. According to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that came out this year, Planned Parenthood alone received $1.18 billion in state and federal Medicaid dollars from 2010 to 2012.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.29.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) congratulates Crestline Elementary School in Mountain Brook and Shades Cahaba Elementary School in Homewood, for being recognized today by the Department of Education as National Blue Ribbon Schools for 2015. “I am very pleased that Crestline Elementary and Shades Cahaba Elementary were recognized for their excellence and I congratulate the faculty and administration on their exceptional service to their students,” Palmer said. “The real reward, however, will be the achievements of their students in their lives going forward.” The National Blue Ribbon Schools program was created in 1982 to honor schools which have achieved high levels of performance or made significant improvements in closing the achievement gap in schools where at least 40% of the student population is classified as disadvantaged. Three additional schools in Alabama were also recognized.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.25.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) says the following concerning Speaker Boehner’s announcement that he will resign as Speaker of the House and from Congress at the end of October: “Speaker Boehner’s decision to step down as Speaker is an extraordinary act of leadership. He did something that is very rare in politics, and among others who hold power: he voluntarily gave it up. In doing so, he put what was in the best interest of the people he was leading ahead of his own interests. And it is for this that he should be remembered.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.18.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), voted today for H.R. 3134 the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, which would create a moratorium on any funding for Planned Parenthood, as well as H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which provides greater protection for infants that survive the abortion procedure. “The videos by the Center for Medical Progress contain strong evidence that Planned Parenthood is illegally engaged in the sale of body parts from aborted babies,” Palmer said. Palmer has called for an independent investigation of Planned Parenthood. “These videos provide strong evidence that Planned Parenthood and their affiliates are violating laws aimed at ensuring that every child born alive, including those who survive an abortion procedure, is given all the life saving and life sustaining standard medical care that any other born alive infant would have. Because of this, I support H.R. 3504, the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which would make failure to help a born alive infant a crime.” Rep. Palmer also supports H.R. 3134. This bill would, for one year, bar federal funding going to Planned Parenthood unless they certify that the affiliates and clinics will not perform, and will not provide any funds to any other entity that performs, an abortion. You can watch Congressman Palmer’s remarks in support of these bills on the House floor here:https://youtu.be/gBH5rteQ3mw For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.17.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), releases the following statement on Constitution Day: “On this day in 1787, the members of the Constitutional Convention came together and signed the document they had spent months debating and crafting. The debate was fierce and the discussion passionate, but the end result was that they crafted a system of government that balanced many important principles; the will of the majority vs. the rights of the minority, the unity of the federal government vs. the sovereignty of the states, and so on. In so doing, they created a governing document that has successfully guided our great country for centuries. “Returning to Constitutional governance is one of my top priorities. I believe we need to return to the original understanding of the Constitution that creates a carefully balanced separation of powers where each branch of the Government has all of the power it is due, but no more. This Constitution Day, let us remember the wisdom of our founders in crafting this document that has served us so well by protecting our rights and creating a separation of powers, and let us rededicate ourselves to preserving the results of their wisdom.” The 114th Congress opened on January 9, 2015 with a reading of the Constitution by members of the House of Representatives. Congressman Palmer participated in this event.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.17.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, participated in a joint hearing between the Oversight and Government Reform Committee and the Natural Resources Committee on the Animas River spill, an environmental spill of contaminated mine water that was created by contractors working on the behest of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy testified at this hearing. “The EPA needs to be held accountable for its actions,” Palmer said. “Unfortunately, Administrator McCarthy does not seem inclined to hold anyone accountable. During her testimony, McCarthy indicated that the same contractors who created this disaster will continue to work for the EPA and that nobody at the EPA will lose their job as a result of this disaster. If a privately owned company had engaged in this kind of conduct, I have little doubt that the EPA would already be imposing harsh sanctions and people would lose their jobs. This double standard is a serious problem. ” Palmer previously participated in a Science, Space, and Technology Committee hearing on the Animas River spill. You can read his previous statement and watch his previous testimony here. You can watch Congressman Palmer’s questions of Administrator McCarthy, and Navajo Tribal Leaders, at the Oversight/Natural Resources hearing here:https://youtu.be/IX9c3zk0f2sFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.15.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Verbena Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department will receive an Assistance to Firefighters Operations and Safety grant for $69,715 from the Department of Homeland Security. The department’s application competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. “I am pleased that the Verbena Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department was successful in this competitive grant process,” Palmer said. “I know it will increase their preparedness to keep their community safe.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.15.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Town of West Jefferson Volunteer Fire Department received an Assistance to Firefighters Operations and Safety grant for $29,286 from the Department of Homeland Security. The department’s application competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. Fire Chief James Nix said that the funds would be used to purchase new supply hoses, nozzles, and appliances. This new equipment will replace existing items that are decades old. “I am pleased that the West Jefferson Volunteer Fire Department was chosen for this competitive grant,” Palmer said. “I know this will increase their level of preparedness for fire and other emergencies.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.15.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Cahaba Valley Fire and EMR District received an Assistance to Firefighters Operations and Safety grant for $172,927 from the Department of Homeland Security. The department’s application competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. Chief Jim Witherington said that the funds would be used to purchase: • Five new heart monitors that will provide the highest level of care in a pre-hospital setting. The monitors will be able to send information directly to an emergency facility from the scene to receive direction from a physician and allow them to properly prepare for the arriving patient. • New vehicle extrication equipment that will allow first responders to gain entry to patients faster and more easily. • Training for staff that will include Alabama Fire College approved courses in rope rescue and vehicle extrication. “I am pleased that the work by the Cahaba Valley Fire and EMR District is recognized in this way,” Palmer said. “That they received a grant in this competitive process speaks well of their work and I know it will enhance their ability to respond to fire and other emergency situations.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.15.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), is a co-sponsor of H.R.3490, the NCFI Authorization Act. This act would ensure the continuation of The National Computer Forensics Institute (NCFI), which is located in Hoover, AL. “I am proud to support the mission of The National Computer Forensics Institute, which trains state and local officials on ways to protect Americans from cyber-crime,” Palmer said. “This bill recognizes the success of NCFI and would fully authorize the training it provides going forward.” No additional funds are authorized by this act. The NCFI opened in 2008 and is dedicated to instructing state and local officials in digital evidence and cyber-crime investigations. Today, the NCFI is operated by the United States Secret Service (USSS) and the Alabama District Attorneys Association, but it has not yet been authorized and instead exists pursuant to the directives of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). This bill would be part of a larger DHS Management Efficiencies Act. To date, the NCFI has trained and equipped more than 4,590 local officials from all 50 states and three U.S. Territories. These NCFI graduates represent more than 1,500 agencies nationwide. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.11.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) voted twice today in opposition to the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) or the ‘Iran Deal.’ The first vote, on H.R.3461, would affirmatively approve the terms of the ‘Iran Deal.’ Congressman Palmer voted against this measure, which failed by a vote of 162 to 269. The second vote, on H.R. 3460, would bar the President, till the end of his administration, from waiving the sanctions imposed under Iran sanctions laws. Palmer supported this measure, which passed by a vote of 247 to 186. “The Iran deal is not a deal, it’s a capitulation,” Palmer said. “I do not trust Iran to abide by any agreement that seriously hampers its nuclear ambitions, and the inspections plan is far too lax to ensure Iran does not violate the agreement. Even assuming the agreement is adhered to perfectly, it will only delay Iran from developing the capability to make a nuclear weapon a few years. “Instead of promoting nuclear disarmament, this agreement will create a nuclear arms race in the region where other nations, such as Saudi Arabia and Egypt, will face pressure to obtain nuclear weapons to counteract Iran. The sanctions relief will also allow for Iran to further fund terrorism in the region. This is not a choice between war and this deal; it is a choice between this and a better deal. We should increase sanctions and redouble our efforts to hamper Iran’s nuclear program, not give them billions of dollars to finance terrorism and their nuclear ambitions.” The agreement requires that Iran be given 24 days’ notice before inspections can take place. They may not be allowed at all, since any dispute over inspections would be referred to an eight nation commission where decisions would require a majority vote. This agreement also lifts prohibitions on Iran building intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM’s) after eight years, and gives Iran up to $150 billion in sanctions relief, which can be used to fund terrorism or their nuclear ambitions. Iran has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism since 1984, and the most recent State Department Country Report on Terrorism states that Iran’s support for terrorism is “undiminished.” You can watch Congressman Palmer’s floor speech on the Iran Deal here:https://youtu.be/ri8YfAJcIjYFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.11.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Subcommittee on Environment, participated in a hearing with various state experts on the effects of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ‘Clean Power Plan,’ a rule which would require states to meet certain standards for carbon emissions. State experts testified that that this rule will harm the economies of their states and destroy jobs. “The Clean Power Plan is one of the worst examples of EPA overreach,” Palmer said. “This is not about air quality, but climate change, on which this rule will have no real impact. The EPA’s own policy analysis model says that the plan will only decrease global temperatures by 0.019°C by the year 2100. “Moreover, this plan will increase electricity rates and will have a have a disproportionate effect on poor Black and Hispanic Americans. A study commissioned by the Black Chamber of Commerce concludes that, by 2035, the Clean Power Plan will increase black poverty rates by 23 percent and cause the loss of 7 million jobs for black Americans and would increase Hispanic poverty by 26 percent and cause the loss of 12 million jobs for Hispanic Americans. Seventeen states are now suing the EPA to overturn the Clean Power Plan on the grounds that the EPA lacks the statutory authority to craft this rule. “The EPA’s plan is on shaky legal ground, and may well be overturned by the courts,” Palmer said. “However, even the threat of implementation will have serious economic consequences. Therefore, states should consider not implementing the rule until the Courts decide the issue.” You can watch Congressman Palmer’s remarks here:https://youtu.be/I6p2bucJw2UFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.10.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), voted today for H.Res. 411. This resolution states that the Corker-Cardin law, which provided for Congressional review of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) or the ‘Iran Deal,’ has not been complied with since some of the relevant materials have not been provided to Congress. Subsequently, the review period has not commenced. The measure passed by a vote of 245 to 186. “The Corker-Cardin law is clear,” Palmer said. “It requires that the President to transmit to Congress ‘the agreement … including all related materials and annexes’ before any sanctions can be waived. The President has failed to transmit the ‘side agreements’ concerning the exact terms of the nuclear inspections. I joined 93 of my colleagues in a letter to the President concerning this issue last month. Unfortunately, these materials have still not been transmitted to Congress. The President needs to comply with the law and give Congress access to all of the documents that are part of this deal with Iran.” The Corker-Cardin bill was passed and signed into law in May. Key elements of the Iran deal’s inspections program, which is executed by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), are part of ‘side agreements’ between the IAEA and Iran, have not been transmitted to Congress, a violation of the Corker-Cardin law. Reports indicate that these agreements allow inspections of the Parchin military site, a key location for Iran’s nuclear program, to be based on information and samples provided by the Iranian regime, not independent investigators. Congressman Palmer is also a co-sponsor of H.R. 3199, which would require this agreement to receive a two-thirds vote in the Senate, as if it were a treaty. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.10.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) notes the 14th anniversary of the 9/11/2001 terrorist attacks on the U.S. and encourages all Americans to remember the men and women who died that day, as well as those who gave their lives fighting Al-Quada and their allies. Palmer says the following: “The tragic events of 9/11, in which nearly 3000 Americans died, forced our nation to confront the reality that we were at war with a radical and fanatical sect of Islam. This anniversary is another reminder that Americans need to remain vigilant in opposing all those who threaten our freedom and security.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.09.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, participated in a hearing on the Animas River spill. The Animas River spill occurred when government contractors, working on behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), spilled an estimated 3 million gallons of wastewater full of heavy metals from the Gold King Mine into the Animas River, which empties into the San Juan River. The result has been massive contamination in three states: Colorado, Utah and New Mexico. “The EPA is in charge of protecting our environment, yet it is the EPA that created this environmental disaster,” Palmer said. “I am concerned that there is a double standard. The EPA has not held itself to the same standard that it would have if a private company had engaged in similar conduct. Private companies have been fined hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars for similar conduct. But EPA seems to want to downplay the situation. It has not been fully forthcoming and has been slow to respond to requests for information. This is unacceptable. Congress should make sure the EPA is aware of the gravity of the situation and work to ensure this doesn’t happen again.” This spill caused the temporary closure of public drinking water systems, irrigation equipment for farming, and a number of local businesses in downstream communities. The long-term effects are still unknown, but there is a significant possibility that sludge and heavy metals will be churned up by heavy rain or snow melt and could cause serious problems for various communities in the area. You can watch Congressman Palmer’s questions here:https://youtu.be/J-zuDiy0QXIFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
09.01.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Helena Fire Department received an Assistance to Firefighters grant for $176,191 from the Department of Homeland Security. The department’s application competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. "The grant will allow us to purchase a new rescue truck that will advance our special operations and emergency medical capabilities in the event of inclement weather, disaster or mass casualty incident,” Helena Fire Chief John Wilder said. “We would like to thank U.S. Representative Palmer for his support of this beneficial grant." “I am grateful for the efforts of the Helena Fire Department,” Palmer said. “I am pleased they were successful in this competitive grant process. I know this grant will be used to strengthen the overall level of preparedness and enhance their ability to respond to fire and related emergency situations.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.24.2015	For Immediate Release Alabaster, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) will hold a Town Hall event at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, September 1st in Alabaster, AL. The event is open to the public and will afford the people of the 6th Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. This event is being hosted by Mayor Marty Handlon and the City of Alabaster.Who: Congressman Gary Palmer and the people of the 6th Congressional District.What: A public town hall eventWhen: Tuesday, September 1st – 7:30pmWhere: Alabaster City Hall, 1953 Municipal Way, Alabaster, AL 35007Why: An opportunity for the people of the 6th Congressional District to discuss the issues directly with Congressman Palmer For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.24.2015	For Immediate Release Vestavia Hills, AL – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) will hold a Town Hall event at 6:30 p.m. on Monday, August 31st in Vestavia Hills, AL. The event is open to the public and will afford the people of the 6th Congressional District the opportunity to ask questions and share their opinion on current events with Congressman Palmer. This event is being hosted by Mayor Butch Zaragoza and the City of Vestavia Hills. Who: Congressman Gary Palmer and members of the public.What: A public town hall eventWhen: Monday, August 31 – 6:30pmWhere: Vestavia City Hall, 513 Montgomery Highway, Vestavia Hills, AL 35216Why: An opportunity for the people of the 6th District to discuss the issues directly with Congressman Palmer For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Indian Ford Fire District located in Bessemer received an Assistance to Firefighters - Operations and Safety grant for $70,858, awarded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). According to Deputy Chief Kevin Allred, the funds will be used to purchase 12 Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) and 12 spare bottles. The new SCBAs will meet National Fire Protection Association standards. “I am happy that Fire Chief James McDougal and the other public servants at the Indian Ford Fire District were successful in this competitive grant process,” said Congressman Palmer. “Alabama Firefighters put their lives at risk to protect their communities and I am proud to support them.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Straight Mountain Volunteer Fire and Rescue located in Blount County received an Assistance to Firefighters - Operations and Safety grant for $60,567, awarded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). According the Captain Jeremy Peek, the Department will use the grant funds to purchase 23 sets of turnout gear, to include helmets, gloves, jackets, and other necessary protection equipment. “Volunteer Firefighters like Straight Mountain Fire Chief Charles Tipton, Captain Jeremy Peek, and the men and women who work with them demonstrate the excellent community leadership and the willingness to put themselves at risk to protect their community,” said Congressman Palmer. “I am happy they were successful in this competitive grant process and I am glad to support their work.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the West Blount County Fire Department in Hayden a received an Assistance to Firefighters Grant for received an Assistance to Firefighters - Operations and Safety grant for $153,334, awarded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). According to Chief JJ Ivey, the funds will be used to purchase a Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) fill station and 20 SCBAs. This will allow the Department to fill their own SCBAs and not be dependent on neighboring fire departments for this important process. “I am pleased that the West Blount County Fire Department succeeded in this competitive grant process,” said Congressman Palmer. “The men and women who work there put their lives on the line to protect their community and I am proud to support their efforts.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the Isabella Fire and Rescue Department located in Chilton County received an Assistance to Firefighters - Operations and Safety grant for $39,048, awarded by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The Isabella Fire and Rescue Department will use the grant funds to purchase a Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) fill station. According to Chief Brent Conway, this will allow the Department to fill SCBAs at any time of the day and not be dependent on neighboring fire departments for this need. In addition, having the fill process in-house will further enhance the skills of the firefighters. “I appreciate the efforts of the Isabella Fire and Rescue Department and am pleased they were successful in this competitive grant process,” Palmer said. “I am proud to support the firefighters of the 6th Congressional District.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), a member of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Environment, strongly opposes the EPA’s newly proposed rule on methane emissions that will apply to new or modified oil or natural gas sources. The effect will be to discourage the development of America’s vast untapped energy reserves and to increase the cost of energy. This will disproportionately hurt the poorest and most vulnerable Americans. Citing a study conducted by the University of Texas in coordination with the Environmental Defense Fund, Palmer noted that methane emissions represented approximately 0.38 percent of the total natural gas withdrawal and production in 2012. “In 2014, the EPA noted that methane emission from fracking has fallen 73 percent since 2011, and overall methane emission from U.S. natural gas emissions has declined by at least 15% percent since 1990,’’ Palmer said. “The research noted that a small number of sites accounted for the majority of those emissions, suggesting that technology already in use across the industry is effectively managing methane leakage.” Scientists agree that methane emissions need to be kept under 2-3 percent of total production and, according to the EPA’s own data, the current leakage rate is only about 1.5 percent. Because of that, many experts claim the EPA’s proposed rule is unnecessary. The EPA’s own study seems to agree. “EPA’s data seems to agree that we’re controlling methane leakage,’’ Palmer said. “And data from a high profile environmental group like the Environmental Defense Fund implies methane emissions are not a problem. So this begs the question, why is the EPA proposing unnecessary regulations?” Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX), Chairman of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, said this is another sign of the EPA’s opposition to responsible energy development. “The EPA's proposed methane rule is yet another example of the Obama administration's war on American energy jobs,” Smith said. “The EPA's own data shows that methane emissions in the United States decreased by almost 15% between 1990 and 2013, yet EPA is forging ahead with this extraneous and unnecessary regulation. EPA should stop punishing cooperative industry stakeholders and start partnering with them in their current efforts to capture methane in a responsible manner. The EPA’s opposition to responsible, market-driven, ‘all-of-the-above’ domestic energy development is on full display with the announcement of this new regulation.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.13.2015	U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL), along with 12 other members of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, signed a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy challenging claims she made during testimony before the Committee in July about the impact of the EPA’s regulatory agenda. “During the hearing, Administrator McCarthy appears to have made false and misleading statements regarding the slate of new rules and regulations being pursued by the EPA,” Palmer said. “These statements underscore my concerns about the lengths that the EPA is willing to go to in order to justify regulations not supported by science, but that will have an enormously negative impact on individuals, families, and the economy as a whole.” In her appearance before the Committee, McCarthy claimed that the figures in the final “Waters of the United States” rule promulgated by the EPA were based on sound science. This claim is contradicted by internal memos from the Army Corps of Engineers. She also claimed that states are not penalized for ozone emissions that are out of their control, such as background levels of ozone, saying that this would not present a compliance issue for states. However, Ms. McCarthy failed to mention that EPA has made statements to the contrary. Additionally, the Administrator claimed that the EPA has never taken action to withhold Department of Transportation funds from states and localities for failure to comply with EPA regulations. Evidence shows these sanctions have been imposed as many as 13 times. For any additional questions, contact:Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.06.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), signed a letter along with 93 other members of Congress, sent to President Barack Obama, requesting the text of the “side deals” made between the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the Iranian Government as part of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), otherwise known as the "Iran Deal." “Voting on this agreement may be one of the most important votes Congress makes in a generation,” Palmer said. “Congress has a legal right to these side agreements, and to have all of its questions about this agreement answered before it comes up for a vote.” The full text of the letter is available here. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
08.03.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) opposes the rule announced by the Obama Administration that would force power plants to make major cuts to carbon dioxide emissions. Experts say it will be one of the most costly rules of all time. “The EPA's release of its final rule to regulate emissions from power plants continues the overreaching, agenda-driven policy that we have seen frequently from the EPA under this administration,” Palmer said. “American workers and their families, particularly the most economically vulnerable, can ill afford the real-life costs of this rule, which will result in significant utility rate increases and lost jobs with little to no measurable environmental impact. With my support, the House has already taken action by passing a bill to delay this costly rule, which faces serious legal challenges. I will continue to work to fight this rule and protect the American people from this costly agenda.” The final rule mandates that power plants cut an average of 32 percent of their carbon dioxide emissions by 2030. The EPA estimates that it will cost more than $8 billion per-year. Other estimates are higher. According to the NERA, an economic consulting and analysis firm, this proposal would cost between $41 and $73 billion per year. In either case it would be one of the most costly rules of all time. In June, the House passed H.R. 2042, The Ratepayer Protection Act, by a vote of 247-180. The act would delay the implementation of the rule until all judicial and administrative reviews are final and no longer eligible for appeal. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.31.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) announced today that the City of Warrior Fire Department received an Assistance to Firefighters - Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant for $968,400 awarded by the Department of Homeland Security. The department’s application competed against other, similar departments through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. The Warrior Fire Department will use the grant to increase staffing to a level recommended by National Fire Protection Association guidelines. It will provide for a total of nine full-time firefighter positions to be hired, which in conjunction with the current staffing, will bring the department to four firefighters per shift, 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. The grant provides funds for a two year period. According to the Warrior Fire Department, “these funds will go to greatly enhance the safety of the citizens in and around Warrior, as well as the I-65 corridor through the city which has had many tragic accidents and tanker fires in the last year.” “I am pleased that Warrior was awarded this competitive grant and will be able to achieve the staffing levels recommended by the National Fire Protection Association guidelines,” Palmer said. “This will ensure that The Warrior Fire Department has the personnel and equipment to respond to any emergency.” Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Additional information is attached. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.31.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 3199, To prohibit statutory sanctions relief by the United States with respect to Iran unless the Senate provides its advice and consent to ratification of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. This bill, introduced by Rep. Dave Brat (R-VA), would not allow the Administration to lift sanctions on Iran unless the Senate gives its consent under Article II Section 2 of the Constitution, which requires a two-thirds vote in the upper chamber. “The Administration’s agreement with Iran is a bad deal,” Palmer said. “It does not prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon. Even if it is executed perfectly, and Iran acts in good faith – both of which are doubtful - it only delays their efforts. The agreement also lifts the conventional arms embargo, which was not part of the original purpose of the negotiations. When combined with billions of dollars in sanctions relief, this agreement will allow for Iran to continue to be the world’s leading sponsor of terrorist organizations.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.30.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. –Disturbed by recent videos concerning Planned Parenthood, Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) led 55 House colleagues in writing a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, requesting that an independent counsel be appointed to fully investigate the possibility that the Planned Parenthood Foundation of America broke the law by selling parts of aborted babies, and by altering their abortion techniques to ensure the right body parts remained intact. “The videos distributed by the Center or Medical Progress provide strong evidence that Planned Parenthood may have broken federal law by selling fetal body parts for profit,” Palmer said. “If this is the case, the entities that purchased the fetal organs and tissue may have also violated federal law. Consequently, the investigation goes beyond Planned Parenthood. We are calling for an independent counsel to ensure an impartial and thorough investigation is conducted." During the 2007 United States Supreme Court case of Gonzales v. Carhart, Attorney General Lynch signed onto a brief supporting Planned Parenthood’s opposition to a partial birth abortion ban. Regrettably, because of this support, there is a justifiable public perception that she cannot conduct an impartial investigation of Planned Parenthood. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.29.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), voted for H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015, which passed the House today. The bill is aimed at remedying some of the abuses that have been revealed as part of the Veteran’s Affairs (VA) scandal. “Our military veterans deserve our very best,” Palmer said. “The scandals at the VA demonstrate they have instead received some of our worst. This is wrong.” “Correcting misconduct requires that people are held accountable for misbehavior. This bill will ensure greater accountability for VA employees by allowing for timely dismissal of employees who engage in misconduct, while ensuring whistleblower protection.” VA employees allegedly manipulated data to hide considerable wait times for healthcare. Reports say that at least 40 veterans died at the Phoenix VA facility while waiting for care between April of 2013 and April of 2014. A 2014 VA internal audit estimated 120,000 veterans were left waiting or never received care. Other instances of mismanagement and misconduct by VA employees have also been uncovered. Yet, a recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found it took an average of six months to remove a civil servant. This bill makes it easier to remove or demote VA employees based on misconduct or poor performance. It provides for protection for whistleblowers by curbing this power if the person in question has alleged illegal or improper practices occurring at the VA. It also limits paid administrative leave to 14 days a year, and allows for a reduction in retirement pension if an employee is convicted of a felony. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.28.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) is a co-sponsor of H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, which passed the House today. This act would require Congressional approval of major administrative regulations, and create a process for expedited congressional consideration of these regulations. “Major regulations created by administrative agencies, such as EPA, impose large costs on the economy, and often go beyond what Congress intended,” Palmer said. “Many of these regulations would never pass if subject to the democratic process. By increasing Congressional input, the REINS Act is a good step toward correcting this problem and lessening the costs these expensive regulations place on the backs of working class Americans.” The REINS Act defines a major regulation as one which has: An annual economic effect of $100 million or more, would create a major increase in the costs or prices for consumers, industries, regions or government agencies, or that would have a significant negative effect on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation or competitiveness with foreign enterprises in the U.S. or abroad. An average of 82 major regulations are promulgated each year. The act creates an expedited process for Congress to consider these regulations by limiting debate in Congress and allows for expedited procedure in the Senate. The REINS Act also allows for major regulations to be implemented without Congressional approval, provided it would enforce criminal laws, protect national security, implement a trade agreement, or respond to an imminent threat to health and safety.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.27.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) joins his fellow members of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee in calling for President Obama to remove IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. Mr. Koskinen repeatedly gave misleading and false testimony to Congress, and failed to preserve evidence related to the troubling scandal where various conservative non-profit organizations were targeted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for exercising their right to freedom of speech. “Mr. Koskinen has repeatedly provided misleading testimony to Congress and has failed to comply with a Congressional subpoena. This behavior is unacceptable, particularly for someone in such a powerful position,” said Palmer. Mr. Koskinen testified before Congress that the IRS had gone to “great lengths” and had spent a “significant amount of money” to preserve and produce all of former IRS Commissioner Lois Learner’s emails. However, further investigation has shown that the IRS had only examined Ms. Learner’s crashed hard drive, and did not examine her blackberry or laptop; nor had the IRS examined email servers or backup tapes. The U.S. Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) found 744 backup tapes, some containing missing emails from Ms. Learner, in just 15 days. These tapes lead to over 1000 unique emails being recovered, and revealed that there could be up to 24,000 additional missing emails. Commissioner Koskinen also failed to preserve tapes that included back-ups of Ms. Learner’s emails, even though these emails were subject to a Congressional subpoena. Backup tapes, which had been subpoenaed in August 2013, were destroyed in March, 2014 under his watch. Mr. Koskinen promised that the IRS would produce all of Ms. Learner’s emails, yet he failed to inform Congress that many of them were missing and withheld this information for approximately four months. You can view Congressman Palmer’s remarks at the Oversight and Government Reform Committee press conference by clicking the link below:https://youtu.be/zl5RhIZMkAI For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), supported H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, which passed the House today. This bill cuts off specific federal law enforcement grants for “sanctuary” cities, that is, cities which refuse to cooperate with the Immigration and Naturalization Services (INS) or other government agencies charged with immigration, or have laws that bar law enforcement from inquiring about a suspect’s immigration status. “If a city chooses not to cooperate with the federal government in enforcing immigration law, then they should not receive the benefit of federal law enforcement funding,” said Palmer, “The rule of law must always remain a high priority for every elected official if we are to maintain our constitutional order.” According to the Center for Immigration Studies, 200 cities nationwide could be classified as sanctuary cities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) estimate that January 1 to August 31, 2014, more than 8,100 deportable aliens were released after being arrested by sanctuary jurisdictions. Of the 8,100 aliens released by sanctuary jurisdictions, approximately 1,900 were later arrested yet again. In many instances, these illegal immigrants were subsequently arrested more than once. This issue has been brought to the forefront by a number of recent events, most notably the murder of Kate Steinle in San Francisco on July 1st. Steinle’s accused killer, Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, is an illegal immigrant with multiple felony convictions who had been deported multiple times. He was in police custody in San Francisco this past March on drug charges, but was not turned over to ICE due to sanctuary city laws. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.22.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) a member of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on Environment, supported H.R. 1734, the Improving Coal Combustion Residuals Regulation Act, which passed the House today. This bill would allow for states to implement their own programs to manage and dispose of coal ash, rather than have the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) run such a program. Coal ash disposal programs are mandated by law. “The EPA frequently claims more authority than they rightfully ought to have. Unfortunately, this often leads to the EPA ignoring the concerns of state governments, and not making use of their expertise. H.R. 1734 recognizes that State Governments are closer to the people and generally better at solving problems than Washington. It is a small but welcome step toward returning more authority to the state governments.” Under H.R. 1734, the state-run program would still have to meet all of the statutory environmental requirements concerning coal ash. It would not create a duel regulatory system; either the state or the federal government would be in charge of implementing the program. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.22.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL), is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 3118, the Repeal CFPB Act, introduced this week by Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX). This bill would repeal the misleadingly named Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a federal agency fundamentally unaccountable to Congress, the President, and the Courts. “I support repealing the CFPB because it has too much power and is insufficiently accountable,” said Palmer. “It’s accountability to the President is limited, as the head of the agency can be removed only for cause. It has little accountability to Congress, because it is not subject to Congressional funding, and instead funded directly by the Federal Reserve. It is also insulated from accountability to the courts, as the laws governing it specifically grant its interpretations of consumer protection law deference over other interpretations. History teaches us that power which is not held accountable, no matter how well intentioned, is often abused.” Whistleblowers confirm that the unaccountable nature of the CFPB has created a situation where regulators have moved from cooperatively working with banks and bank customers to an increasingly antagonistic relationship between the government, regulated industries, and the customers they serve. Mr. Ali Naraghi, a career Bank examiner in the Southeast Region of CFPB, the region that oversees Alabama, testified before Congress that he was instructed that he did not do his job appropriately if he did not find violations, and that members of his team were instructed to increase their sample size of the documents they reviewed if they didn’t find a violation. This was contrary to the established procedure. H.R. 3118 would return authority from CFPB back to the seven agencies previously tasked with such duties, allowing for more accountability to the President, Congress and the Courts. It would not remove any authority that existed in the agencies prior to the creation of the CFPB. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.10.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, agrees with the decision of former Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Director Katherine Archuleta to resign in the wake of the massive data breach that resulted in millions of current and former federal employees having sensitive personal information stolen. Palmer says the following: “The OPM data breach is a major problem, and we are only beginning to understand the full implications. At a hearing where Director Archuleta was a witness, I asked if it was possible that more than the then-estimated 4 million people were affected, and was not given an answer. The latest estimates are that roughly 21.5 million people were affected, and the number could grow larger. “Director Archuleta has been either unable or unwilling to do what is necessary to solve this serious problem. It is appropriate that she has now chosen to step aside and allow someone who is more qualified to take the lead.” You can watch Congressman Palmer’s questions at the hearing below.https://youtu.be/7sY3sPn6JVcFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.09.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, questioned EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy at a hearing today on EPA overreach: “The EPA is an agency that increasingly claims more authority than it rightfully ought to have. It claims the authority to regulate ditches and small ponds as ‘navigable waters.’ It is busy crafting some of the most expensive regulations in history on power plants. It unreasonably refuses to consider the potential costs of regulations on to the economy,” said Palmer. “The EPA’s agenda is destroying jobs and hurting the poorest Americans disproportionately. This is especially true in the minority community. According to a report by the National Black Chamber of Commerce, due to the EPA’s regulatory agenda, by 2025, blacks will lose almost 2.2 million jobs and Hispanics 3.8 million. Also, the poverty rate will increase for blacks by 23% and Hispanics by 26%.” During her testimony, Administrator McCarthy admitted that the proposed new ozone standard would be achieved by the majority of counties without additional regulations. Additionally, Administrator McCarthy admitted that the previous standard has yet to be implemented. Palmer asked why, if this were true, the EPA is now proposing a new standard which cannot be met by many counties using currently available technology. You can watch Congressman Palmer’s exchange with Administrator McCarthy by clicking the link below:https://youtu.be/VKwNlpeHquk For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.09.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) is a co-sponsor of H.R. 2647, The Resilient Federal Forests Act, which passed the House today. The bill addresses the growing economic and environmental threat of catastrophic wildfires to our nation’s forests. Congressman Palmer gives the following statement: “Alabama is home to over 1000 square miles of federal forests. These forests are a vital part of our environment, our recreation, and our industry. Just one catastrophic wildfire can do massive damage to these natural resources, as they have in other states in recent years. Alabama is not immune to these problems, as we have seen in the recent Orange Beach fire that burned 500 acres of forested land. This bill will cut bureaucratic red tape and will help prevent catastrophic wildfires, as well as allow for faster recovery in the event of a wildfire. “ The bill has numerous provisions aimed at preventing wildfires and expediting recovery. The bill expands exclusions from environmental impact reviews and reduces the threat of lawsuits from outside groups, both of which will expedite important forest management activities that prevent wildfires. It also allows swifter wildlife habitat improvement for forest dependent species in the event of a wildfire. The bill passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support by a vote of 262 to 167. It was introduced by Congressman Bruce Westerman (R-AR), who is the only certified forester in Congress. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.08.2015	For Immediate Release Committee asserts Rafael Moure-Eraso lied under oath and made false statements to Congress. See Oversight Video below:https://youtu.be/7PkPSR6dQuwWASHINGTON— Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, supports the decision of the Committee to refer former Chemical Safety Board (CSB) Chairman Rafael Moure-Eraso to the U.S. Attorney General for criminal prosecution. This criminal referral follows hearings in June 2014 and March 2015 where in his sworn testimony, Mr. Moure-Eraso may have violated federal statutes that prohibit lying under oath and making false statements to Congress. “Oversight is an important part of Congress’s job, and dishonesty on behalf of any Administrative branch employee makes it significantly harder to do oversight effectively. I have serious concerns about the veracity of Mr. Moure-Eraso’s testimony before the committee, and it is appropriate that we notify the Attorney General about this issue,” said Rep. Palmer. You can watch a video of Congressman Palmer's questions of Mr. Moure-Eraso during the Committee hearing on March 4th:https://youtu.be/WA7O2_vfdqY Key excerpts from the letter sent to DOJ by the Oversight Committee: We are writing to ask the Department of Justice to investigate whether Rafael Moure-Eraso, the former Chairman of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (CSB), committed perjury and made knowingly false statements during the course of the Committee’s investigation of his agency. First, Mr. Moure-Eraso testified, under oath, that he consulted with the General Counsel of the CSB before approving a request to access the emails of two CSB employees. However, the agency’s General Counsel told the Committee that the Chairman did not do so. Second, Mr. Moure-Eraso testified, under oath, that the CSB’s former Chief Information Officer (CIO) was responsible for overseeing a production of emails to the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Inspector General. According to the Inspector General, Mr. Moure-Eraso’s testimony is contradicted by the former CIO’s sworn statement. Third, Mr. Moure-Eraso testified, under oath, that he stopped using his personal email account for official business “about a year and a half” before the Committee’s June 2014 hearing. Documents and information provided to the Committee by the Inspector General’s office indicate that Mr. Moure-Eraso in fact continued using his personal email account for official business until a much later date. The inconsistencies between Mr. Moure-Eraso’s testimony and other information received by the Committee raise significant concerns about the truthfulness of Mr. Moure-Eraso’s testimony. Furthermore, the testimony in question is related to key aspects of the Committee’s investigation, and in each case, Mr. Moure-Eraso appeared to answer questions in such a way as to avoid additional scrutiny. Read the full report here.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
07.07.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL) agrees with the recently announced decision of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to create a year-long transition period during the implementation of ICD-10, the coding system tied to Medicare and Medicaid. This decision largely mirrors Congressman Palmer’s own bill, H.R. 2652, The Protecting Patients and Physicians Against Coding Act, which would mandate a two-year transition period. Many rural hospitals and smaller practices remain unready to implement ICD-10, and without a grace period, patients could face disruptions in health care services where they live. “I applaud CMS for recognizing that the implementation of ICD-10 without a transition period threatened to disrupt health care for smaller practices and in rural areas. A more gradual transition to this new system will minimize disruptions in health care services for many patients in Alabama and across America. I am pleased that the medical sector and Congress came together to bring concerns about patient care to the forefront, leading to this transition period.” H.R. 2652, The Protecting Patients and Physicians Against Coding Act, introduced by Congressman Palmer, attracted 45 co-sponsors including two Congressional Committee chairmen. Medical industry officials indicated that pressure from Congress lead directly to CMS’s decision to create this transition period. “We appreciate Congressman Palmer’s leadership on this issue and know his efforts weighed significantly into CMS’s decision to allow an ICD-10 grace period for physicians,” Medical Association of Alabama President Buddy Smith, M.D., said, “and we look forward to working with him to further mitigate the negative effects of ICD-10 and the myriad of other unnecessary and burdensome federal mandates levied on medical practices.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.30.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – U.S. Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL) notes the Supreme Court‘s decision in Michigan v. EPA, where the court concluded that the Environmental Protection Agency ‘unreasonably’ failed to take into account the costs of the new mercury emissions standards aimed at coal-fired power plants before deciding to pursue them and gives the following statement: “When deciding whether or not to propose new regulations, the first step should always be determining whether the benefits outweigh the costs. The EPA’s decision to move forward without considering the impact on individuals and the economy was ill-advised and I am pleased the Supreme Court recognized that. “This Administration has been open about the fact that they want to put the coal industry out of business, regardless of what reasonable standards they may meet. This case is a blow to those efforts. I will continue to work in Congress to rein in the EPA when they overreach on environmental policy.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.26.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer strongly disagrees with the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, which strikes down as unconstitutional state laws defining marriage as it has been defined for thousands of years, and says the following: “I strongly disagree with the Supreme Court’s decision in this case and believe it represents the height of Judicial activism. Two years ago, in U.S. v Windsor, the Supreme Court struck down the Defense of Marriage Act as unconstitutional because they claimed that it interfered with the right of states to define marriage as each state saw fit. Now that same Court has summarily invalidated the right of every state, such as Alabama, that defines marriage as between one man and one woman. “Nonetheless, it is important to remember that in a larger sense, neither the Supreme Court nor any government entity can redefine marriage, because the definition of marriage pre-exists government. No one can change the fundamental nature of what marriage is: the union of a man and woman and the formation of family which is the foundation of every civilization. The Court’s ruling cannot change that. Because of this ruling I have grave concerns about the assault against the religious liberties of the millions of Americans for whom marriage is a religious institution and will always remain one. Congress should act to ensure that the religious liberties of all Americans are protected so that no one is ever be forced or coerced into violating their conscience.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.25.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer comments on the Supreme Court’s Decision on King v. Burwell: “ I’ve long been an advocate for repealing this unworkable and unaffordable law. Today’s decision by SCOTUS makes it even more imperative that Congress work to fully repeal it. As far as the opinion is concerned, I agree with Justice Scalia when he writes in dissent:“The Court holds that when the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act says 'Exchange established by the State' it means 'Exchange established by the State or the Federal Government.' That is of course quite absurd, and the Court’s 21 pages of explanation make it no less so …. This Court, however, concludes that this limitation would prevent the rest of the Act from working as well as hoped. So it rewrites the law to make tax credits available everywhere. We should start calling this law SCOTUScare." For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.24.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Science, Space and Technology Subcommittee on the Environment, supported H.R. 2042, the Ratepayer Protection Act. This legislation would delay implementation of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed rule under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act (CAA), aimed at regulating greenhouse gasses. He says the following: “The EPA makes a habit out of claiming more authority than it rightfully has, particularly under this Administration. The EPA’s proposed “Clean Power Plant” rule is an example of this. This rule would require power plants to reduce emissions by 30% in the next 15 years in order to achieve little to no environmental benefit. According to the NERA, an economic consulting and analysis firm, this proposal would cost between $41 and $73 billion per year. There is a strong possibility this rule will be struck down in court. In the meantime, it could do significant economic damage. “This rule amounts to a massive tax increase on those Americans least able to pay it. The Ratepayer Protection Act would shield states from being forced or coerced into complying with this unwise and possibly illegal rule. I am glad to support this first step toward rolling back EPA’s overregulation.” Congressman Palmer also participated today in a Science, Space and Technology Subcommittees on Environment and Energy hearing on the impact of the EPA’ “Clean Power Plant” rule, where he discussed the impact of the rule. You can watch his remarks below:https://youtu.be/FQ0tMpSJy0kFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.24.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer says the following with regards to Governor Bentley removing the Confederate Battle Flag from the Capitol Grounds: “I support Governor Bentley’s action removing the Confederate Battle Flag from the Capitol Grounds. I believe only two flags should be flying on the capitol grounds: the flag of the United States of America and the flag of Alabama. “At this point, it appears impossible to separate the Confederate Battle Flag from the historical injustices of slavery and Jim Crow. These injustices are inconsistent with my personal beliefs.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.18.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – The House voted today in favor of H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015, a repeal of the so-called medical device tax in The Affordable Care Act (Obamacare). Congressman Gary Palmer, a co-sponsor of H.R. 160, voted in favor and says the following: “This tax should never have been passed. This tax actively works against the interests of those with serious but treatable medical conditions by stifling innovation. “Medical devices, such as pacemakers, MRI scanners, artificial joints and heart valves, have made a positive difference in the lives of countless Americans. There have been extraordinary advances in the medical device industry and there is no limit to what new innovation can bring, provided we do not deter such innovation with unwise taxes. On top of all this, the tax also threatens the jobs of almost 40,000 Americans. It should be repealed with the rest of Obamacare.” Obamacare imposed a tax equal to 2.3 percent on the sale of any taxable medical device by the manufacturer, producer, or importer of such device. A bipartisan coalition supported repeal, and the bill was passed by a vote of 280 to 140.For any additional questions, contact:Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4991, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.18.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer is an original co-sponsor of H.R. 2802, The First Amendment Defense Act, introduced this week. The bill preserves the right for all Americans to hold religious or moral beliefs about marriage without being threatened with legal consequences. Congressman Palmer says the following: “The First Amendment to the Constitution guarantees the free exercise of religion as our first right. Indeed, the freedom to live according to the dictates of one’s own conscience is the reason the pilgrims came to this country centuries ago. It is a right given to us, not by government, but by God. “I oppose efforts to redefine Marriage. However, should the courts or any state decide differently, the millions of Americans who believe Marriage is between one man and one woman should not be discriminated against or penalized. The definition of marriage preexists government and for millions of Americans it is a religious union.” This bill would ensure that people who affirm the faith based definition of marriage cannot be discriminated against, denied a benefit such as a license or certification, or otherwise penalized, for their beliefs about Marriage. It was introduced by Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID). A companion bill, S.1598, was introduced by Sen. Mike Lee (R-UT).For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.16.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, questioned government officials at a hearing on the recent data breach of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM). On June 4, OPM announced a data breach that affected approximately four million former and current government employees. However, the hearing confirmed that the breach may have been much larger and many more people’s personal information may be at risk. “The breach of data at OPM is a major blow to America’s national security, as well as the personal security of millions of Americans. Also troubling is that OPM has not been transparent concerning the number of people at risk or who is at risk due to this breach,” Palmer said. “Members of my Congressional staff received letters in the mail saying their information may have been compromised. Yet neither of them fit OPM’s publicly announced criteria for who is at risk. OPM needs to take immediate action to increase safeguards on this information, minimize the damage from this breach and be straightforward with Congress and the American people, particularly those who are now at risk due to this breach.” You can watch Congressman Palmer’s questions at the hearing below.https://youtu.be/7sY3sPn6JVcFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.16.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Today the Medical Association of the State of Alabama (MASA) officially endorsed H.R. 2652, the Protecting Patients and Physicians Against Coding Act, authored and introduced by Congressman Gary Palmer. The bill is aimed at protecting access to health care with the pending implementation of ICD-10, the new coding system linked to Medicare and Medicaid. Many smaller practices, particularly in rural areas, are not yet ready to fully implement this new system, which threatens patient access and quality of care. “We are very concerned about the ICD-10 mandate,” George “Buddy” Smith Jr., M.D., president of the Medical Association of the State of Alabama, said. “Not only does it not improve patient care, but it may provide insurers four times as many reasons to deny necessary medical services and procedures because of coding errors,” Dr. John Meigs, a family physician from Centerville, Alabama and a member of the board of censors at MASA, anticipates serious problems if H.R. 2652 is not adopted. “The new coding system does nothing for patients or doctors, it’s for insurance companies and bean counters,” said Dr. Meigs. “It will get in the way of the care patients in rural areas badly need. There hasn’t been much in terms of a trial run. To avoid serious disruptions, there’s going to need to be a grace period where physicians get a chance to get used to this new system.” Congressman Palmer expressed appreciation to MASA for endorsing his bill. “Many medical practices are facing serious problems with the implementation of ICD-10 and we should act to ensure there is no disruption in patient care. The Protecting Patients and Physicians Against Coding Act will help to ensure that patients will still have access to healthcare during this period of transition,” said Palmer. Congressman Palmer discusses his bill further in the video below:https://youtu.be/ONPQgZjRnXkFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.11.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer supported H.R. 2685, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, which includes a 2.3% pay raise for US Military personnel, as well as $88.4 billion for fighting the greater War on Terror. “I am proud to support funding our brave men and women in uniform,” said Palmer. “While I do not support every single expenditure in the bill, I believe this bill was necessary to fully fund our military and protect our national security. “Furthermore, our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line to defend our country. Their families also make great sacrifices on our behalf. Although we could never repay them for all they do, I support this pay raise for our troops.” The bill passed by a vote of 278-149. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.11.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer sent a letter to Ambassador Michael Froman, the United States Trade Representative, asking for greater access to the current draft of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), specifically, that he be emailed a copy for further review. “I had the opportunity to review TPP, but only someone with a photographic memory could recall all that is necessary to make a decision on whether to support over 500 pages of legislative text,” stated Palmer in the letter. Palmer later noted that the security language written on the actual document indicated it could be faxed or emailed in an unclassified manner. “That the document can be transmitted through unsecure means appears to indicate that the material is not really classified.” “I sent this letter to the US Trade Representative because I believe greater transparency is needed,” said Palmer. “Congress should have complete access to the details of any agreement that Congress will eventually be asked to vote on.” Congressman Palmer was able to spend some time reviewing the draft agreement earlier this week in a closed, secure room. No notes are permitted to be taken outside of the room, nor are members allowed to take a copy for further review. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.05.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer commemorates the sacrifices that many of our fellow countrymen made on our behalf 71 years ago on D-Day, and says the following: “Seventy one years ago, the invasion of Normandy marked the beginning of the end of the Nazi regime; a regime which represented one of the greatest threats to peace and freedom in history. This was made possible because thousands of brave men chose to fight, bleed and die for their country, and for the cause of freedom. The D-Day invasion claimed the lives of 2,499 Americans, while 1,914 from our allied nations also paid the ultimate price. “Since we have remembered their victory for so many years, it is easy to forget that at the time, victory was not inevitable. While the leader of the invasion, General Dwight Eisenhower, famously said ‘We will accept nothing less than full victory,’ history also tells us that he had written a letter taking full responsibility in the event of defeat. Their sacrifice was not made because they knew they would win. It was made because they knew their cause was right, and that peace and freedom are worth the price. “There are still those among us that served on that fateful day. Men like Sherwin Callander of Madison, Alabama, age 95, who joined the Navy in 1939 and whose ship was on its way to Pearl Harbor when it was attacked. He was later part of the landing on Utah Beach on D-Day. Additionally, men like Nathan Smith, a Marine who made four landings in the South Pacific and was wounded on the fourth day of Iwo Jima, and Carl Cooper, also a Marine who fought in the Battle of Okinawa. Let us remember heroes like them on this day, thank them for their service, and remember the spirit in which they served. If America is to live up to its potential and remain as a beacon of freedom, it will be in large part because we remember the values that men like these fought for, and still represent today.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.05.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer notes the 11th Anniversary of the death of President Ronald Reagan, and says the following: “President Reagan took office during a time of economic turmoil and American retreat internationally. Many thought America was in a state of irreversible decline. Yet under Reagan’s watch, the economy boomed, inflation was tamed, and the Cold War was all but won. “During his tenure, President Reagan faced bipartisan doubt and was criticized widely, both by his political friends and foes. But Reagan maintained the trust of the American people. Ultimately, his legacy outlasted his critics. His impact was such that, today, people across the ideological spectrum must take into account his point of view and many former critics say positive things about him. When his body was laid to rest in Southern California, people lined the streets for miles and miles in a final act of appreciation for all he did. “As Ronald Reagan said, ‘Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didn’t pass it on to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same.’ So as we remember Reagan’s legacy on this anniversary, let us not look backwards with nostalgia, but look forward and focus on what is required by our generation to protect freedom for those who will come after us.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.04.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, participated in a hearing on major pending EPA regulations and the potential for EPA overreach, and says the following: “The EPA has long been an agency that makes a habit out of claiming more authority than it should rightfully have. In the next six months, the EPA is poised to issue three of the most expensive and wide-ranging regulations it has ever issued: the so-called ‘Clean Power Plan,’ the ‘National Ambient Air Quality Standards’ (NAAQS) for Ozone, and the ‘Waters of the United States’ rule, which was recently rebranded the ‘Clean Water Rule’ after the public became aware it would allow the EPA to regulate even things like puddles and ditches. “Expansive rules such as these are beyond the rightful authority of the EPA to implement without the consent of Congress. Moreover, as testimony before the committee clearly demonstrated, the EPA ignored the laws in order to implement these regulations. This was done because Congress would not give consent to such rules as they are expensive, will cost jobs, and come with no significant environmental benefit. “I have repeatedly voted to restrict EPA’s authority when it overreaches, and I will continue efforts to slow down and reverse the EPA’s unlawful regulatory agenda.” You can see Congressman Palmer’s Questions of the witnesses before the Committee here: https://youtu.be/5d0nDqyLu7k For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.04.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Gary Palmer (R-AL 06) introduced the “Protecting Patients and Physicians Against Coding Act,” aimed at ensuring that patient care in rural and small town areas does not suffer with the implementation of the 10th revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10). ICD-10 is the newest version of the medical coding system, which includes 55,000 more physician diagnostic codes than ICD-9, as well as 87,000 additional procedural codes. It is tied directly to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. The bill would create a two-year grace period that would ensure healthcare providers can continue to focus on patient care instead of coding and receiving compensation for their care while ICD-10 is being fully implemented. ICD-10 has created significant administrative problems for healthcare providers, who already face heavy burdens dealing with new electronic health records (EHR) systems and Medicare compliance programs. “The ongoing implementation of ICD-10 creates significant hurdles for rural and small town healthcare providers,” Palmer said. “ICD-10 includes a five-fold increase in coding, which threatens to hurt productivity, increase mistakes either from human or technological errors, and create confusion and difficulties as a result. “These problems threaten to prevent healthcare providers from receiving what they are owed. Current law could prevent them from being reimbursed by the government because of simple coding mistakes or systemic failures. This is especially true concerning physicians with small practices and rural hospitals, which, unlike larger and more established institutions, are less likely to have sufficient resources to fully prepare for the implementation of ICD-10. This threatens to disrupt health care for many Americans. “This bill is simple. It provides for a two-year grace period during which healthcare providers cannot be denied payment for services rendered due to mistakes or errors in the system. This will provide time for the system to be implemented and kinks worked out without threatening the quality or availability of healthcare for Americans who live in small towns or rural areas. Physicians are in medicine to provide patient care, not to focus on implementing a complicated and burdensome federally mandated coding system. Everyone who is concerned about small-town and rural health care should support this common sense bill.” The bill has 32 original cosponsors, including Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price, Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions and fellow Alabama Representatives Mo Brooks, Mike Rogers, Robert Aderholt and Bradley Byrne. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
06.02.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, participated in a hearing concerning abuse of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and says the following: “Congress created the Freedom of Information Act because, as Justice Brandeis believed, sunlight is one of the best disinfectants. FOIA was intended to be a tool to be used by everyday citizens and the media to hold their Government accountable, simply by making most government documents available upon request. “However, as today’s hearing demonstrated, the public has not been afforded the full benefit of the law. Instead, they have faced unlawful denials, delays and stonewalling. This problem has been ongoing for some time, but it has accelerated under the Obama Administration. At the end of fiscal year 2014, nearly 160,000 requests were reported as backlogged. Even when documents are provided, they are often heavily redacted in ways that violate both the spirit and letter of the law. “Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan said ‘Excessive secrecy has significant consequences for the national interest when, as a result, policymakers are not fully informed, government is not held accountable for its actions, and the public cannot engage in informed debate.’ I could not agree more. A culture of secrecy has seized the federal bureaucracy. Congress should work to change this culture through aggressive oversight and revisions to the law to ensure there is less abuse of the process.” Today’s hearing focused on requesters of documents through FOIA. A subsequent hearing will follow tomorrow that will focus on Administration officials charged with administrating FOIA. A video of Congressman Palmer’s Testimony is available below: https://youtu.be/QQGMcRoUCXwFor any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov
06.01.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer voted for H.R. 1335, “The Strengthening Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act” (Magnuson-Stevens Reauthorization) and says the following: “Fishing is important in Alabama, both for commerce and for recreation. This bill will provide for more opportunities for Alabamians to have a stronger voice in the process of deciding how our fisheries are managed by replacing the current one-size-fits-all approach to a state managed approach by requiring state and local data in decision-making. The bill also extends, from 3 miles to 9 miles, the control of state fisheries over red snapper stocks. These improvements will be an economic boon to Alabama’s fisherman as well as the public consumer.” This bill requires no additional federal spending. Additionally, the bill has support of fisherman, as well as the Alabama Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.29.2015	For Immediate Release Graysville, AL – The Office of Congressman Gary Palmer congratulates the Graysville Fire and Rescue Service on being awarded a $23,334 grant by the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The department’s application competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. Graysville Fire Chief Kenny Booth said the funds will be used to replace multiple supply hoses. Many of the current hoses are older and susceptible to leaking. “I know this AFG grant will strengthen the overall level of preparedness of the men and women of the Graysville Fire and Rescue Service and their ability to respond to fire and related hazards,” said Palmer. Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. CONTACT: For Gary Palmer, contact Communications Director Cliff Smith, 202-225-4921, Clifford.Smith@mail.house.gov, or District Director Ray Melick, (205) 968-1290, Ray.Melick@mail.house.gov. U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.29.2015	For Immediate Release Oneonta, AL – The Office of Congressman Gary Palmer congratulates the Oneonta Fire and Rescue Service on being awarded a $174,286 grant by the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The department’s application competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. “When I visited the Oneonta Fire and Rescue Service, I was impressed by the comradery and professionalism of the men and women who are serving that community,” said Palmer. “I am pleased DHS gave due consideration to the Oneonta Fire Department and chose to assist Oneonta FD in helping the community.” Oneonta Fire and Rescue Chief Arthur Willis said a portion of the grant will be used to replace 20 Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA). The SCBA is used by firefighters for airway protection against the heat, smoke, and contaminants associated with firefighting. “The SCBA’s currently in use weigh approximately 30 pounds,’’ Willis said. “And many of them, by industry standards, are outdated. Replacing the existing SCBA’s with newer, lighter equipment will decrease the weight by almost 50 percent, which in turn decreases the physical stress placed on the individual firefighter.” Willis said the remainder of the AFG award will be used to purchase two Electrocardiogram monitors (ECG). More than 65% of Oneonta Fire and Rescue Service’s incidents are emergency medical service (EMS) related, making these monitors an important diagnostic tool used to treat patients. “The new monitors and SCBA’s will allow Oneonta Fire and Rescue Service to continue to provide the best care available to the citizens and visitors of Oneonta in a safe and efficient manner,’’ Willis said. Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. CONTACT: For Gary Palmer, contact Communications Director Cliff Smith, 202-225-4921, Clifford.Smith@mail.house.gov, or District Director Ray Melick, (205) 968-1290, Ray.Melick@mail.house.gov. U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Science, Space and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.27.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals on Tuesday denied a request by the Obama Administration to implement its unconstitutional executive amnesty plan. Congressman Gary Palmer (AL-06) released the following statement. “There are three coequal branches of government, not the executive and two subservient bodies. The Fifth Circuit opinion is about more than immigration policy. It reigns in the abuse of executive power, and tells the Obama Administration, and administrations to come, that overreaching executive orders cannot circumvent the authority to the Congress. “This opinion, without question, affirms the constitutional separation of powers and the principle that legislative authority resides with the Congress. The President does not have the authority to make laws on immigration, or any other matter, and must not be allowed to abuse his authority.” The President’s executive order would have granted amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants and provided them access to government benefits like social security, tax credits and driver’s license. Alabama joined Texas and 26 other states in opposing the President’s unconstitutional act. While this opinion only upholds a preliminary injunction, courts have repeatedly said that a preliminary injunction is only granted or upheld when one party has a high likelihood of success on the merits of the case. Thus, final victory for those challenging the order is likely. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.27.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee and the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee on the Interior, opposes the EPA’s most recent “Waters of the US” rule, released Wednesday and recently renamed the “Clean Water Rule”, and says the following: “Returning to Constitutional Governance is one of my highest priorities. The EPA is an organization that makes a habit out of claiming authority beyond that which it has under the Constitution and the laws established by Congress. This rule is an example of that fact. “This expansive rule would allow the EPA to place onerous regulations on almost any body of water. While the EPA claimed to listen to the extensive public outcry over this proposal by making cosmetic changes, the rule is still well beyond EPA’s rightful authority. I have voted to roll back this rule by supporting H.R.1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, which would block its implementation, and I hope further action will be taken to stop this rule from being implemented.” In addition to this, the EPA has been widely criticized by actors across the political spectrum, including the New York Times, for actively manufacturing public regulatory comments in favor of this rule, possibly violating laws that prohibit executive agencies from conducting “grass roots” lobbying. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.15.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer is proud to support the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016, which passed the House today by a vote of 269-151. “Keeping America safe and protecting our national interests is one of the most important jobs of the federal government. It is a top priority. A strong America is vital to our national security, and to that of our allies. The men and women who wear the uniform deserve to be given the equipment and training they need and the pay and benefits they earn. “This bill authorizes spending adequate to meet the military’s needs. I believe it is necessary to keep our military on the cutting edge. I am pleased that the Congress passed an amendment I co-sponsored offered by Rep. Mo Brooks (R-AL). This amendment stripped a provision that would have allowed illegal immigrants granted amnesty under the President’s unconstitutional executive order to join the military. I do not believe Congress should ratify the Administration’s illegal action, nor do I believe that the NDAA is the appropriate place to legislate concerning illegal immigration. “I am pleased that a large, bipartisan majority of Congress passed this bill and I encourage the Senate to do the same. I hope the President will sign it promptly.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.14.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Rep. Gary Palmer supported H.R.1191, known as the Corker-Cardin bill, which came before the House today. Noting that Iran is the foremost state sponsor of terrorism in the world, he says the following: “I am deeply concerned about the Administration’s pending deal with Iran. I have no faith that Iran will abide by any agreement. The limited details of the agreement the Administration is negotiating that have been announced so far indicate that the deal is does not achieve the goal of ending Iran’s nuclear program. “It is unfortunate that the process by which this bill was considered did not allow for committee consideration or opportunities to propose amendments. I believe Congress should have a much stronger role in any deal with Iran. The President should understand that we will have an opportunity to disapprove of any deal he would make and I hope Congress will act on the disapproval authority should the deal come out in a manner that is harmful to America and our allies.” H.R. 1191 allows for a 60 day review period before congressionally passed sanctions are lifted. Currently, the President has unilateral authority to lift sanctions without any review. The bill also allows for Congress to pass a resolution of disapproval. Since President Obama can veto such a resolution, it will take a two-thirds vote to stop the President from lifting sanctions. It would take a separate, affirmative vote by Congress to make any agreement, such as a treaty, that would bind a future President. The bill passed by a vote of 400 to 25.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.13.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer voted for H.R. 2048, the USA Freedom Act, which reforms and reauthorizes the Patriot Act, and states the following: “America’s founders long recognized there is a delicate balance between national security and individual liberty. Protecting Americans from foreign aggressors one of the most important roles of the federal government under the Constitution. The government must seek to do this without our violating our Fourth Amendment rights against unlawful searches and seizures being compromised. “I believe this bill strikes the right balance. This bill makes significant reforms, such as ending bulk data collection by the federal government, but also reauthorizes parts of the Patriot Act that have proved important in fighting terrorism. The bill also updates the law, closing a loophole that requires the government to stop tracking foreign members of ISIS or other terrorist groups once they reach American soil and increasing sentences for those who provide material support for terrorism.” This bill also includes several other reforms, including declassifying Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) Courts opinions that include major interpretations of law, and creates a panel of amicus curie to advise the FISA court concerning civil liberties. It also provides additional protections for privacy, such as allowing challenges to national security gag orders and restricting large-scale collection of records without specific targets. H.R. 2048 passed by a vote of 338-88. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
05.13.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer is committed to protection of the innocent, particularly those who cannot speak for themselves, and voted for H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act today which bans abortion after 20 weeks: “The right to life is central to everything I believe. Abortions that occur more than halfway through pregnancy are particularly abhorrent, which is when science informs us the unborn child can feel pain. There is widespread agreement that abortions after 20 weeks should be prohibited. “America was horrified by the crimes of Dr. Kermit Gosnell, who, two years ago this week, received three first-degree murder convictions for killing babies in his abortion clinic. Whether the child is killed inside or outside of the womb makes little difference, I am proud to support this measure as well as others to protect the unborn and move our society in a direction of one that respects life.” H.R. 36 passed by a vote of 242-184. Several polls show that about 60% of Americans, (Quinnipiac, Nov. 2014; Gallup, January 2013, Huffington Post, July 2013) and even 51% of Democrats (ABC/Washington Post, July 2013), support the 20 week restriction. America is one of just seven countries that allow for abortion after 20 weeks. The House has passed 3 pro-life measures this year, also including H.R. 7, the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015”, and H.J. Res. 43, “Disapproving the action of the District of Columbia Council in approving the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act of 2014.” Congressman Palmer supported all three measures. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.30.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the House Budget Committee, voted for the budget resolution that was a result of the House/Senate Budget conference and which passed by a vote of 226 to 197 today: “As I have repeatedly stressed, we face a fiscal crisis in America. Righting our fiscal ship is one of my top priorities. The Conference Budget is substantially the same as the House Budget resolution I previously supported. This budget creates a framework for reducing the size and scope of government by repealing Obamacare, strengthening Medicare by providing market incentives for both better and less expensive care and creating work requirements for welfare.” “This is the first time since 2008 that both Houses of Congress have passed a budget resolution. I hope this is a step toward a government that lives within its means and plans for the future, rather than just does what is expedient and ignores our ongoing fiscal crisis.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.30.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, supported the NASA Authorization Act for 2016 and 2017 which authorizes the National Aeronautic and Space Administration (NASA) for an additional two years. The bill was marked up in committee today and passed by a vote of 19-15. “I am proud to support space exploration and the mission of NASA. This bill will authorize NASA for an additional two years, while honoring the Budget Control Act (BCA) spending limits. This bill would fully fund the Space Launch System at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, which will keep America at the forefront of space exploration for years to come. It will also give appropriate policy guidance to ensure our mission in space exploration remains NASA’s top priority.” Congressman Palmer previously supported the NASA Authorization Act of 2015, a one-year authorization which passed by a voice vote in February.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.30.2015	Hoover, AL - Area high school students who submitted artwork for the annual Congressional Art Competition will be recognized at a reception at the Hoover Library, May 4 at 6 p.m., CST. Congressman Gary Palmer (R-Hoover) will congratulate the students at the event. The winning submission from Alabama’s Sixth District will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol with student artwork from other Congressional districts across America. High school students from more than 200 congressional districts participate in the annual contest. Partners in sponsoring this event are Vulcan Material, Alabama Power, Cadence Bank, and Magic City Art Connection. The University of Montevallo is awarding a special prize to the winners. Media are welcome to cover the event. WHO: Congressman Gary PalmerWHAT: Congressional Art Competition receptionWHEN: Monday, May 4, 6-7 p.m.WHERE: Hoover Library, 200 Municipal Drive, Hoover, AL 35216PRIZES: First Place: $100 from funds donated by our event partners; $300 from the University of Montevallo; trip to Washington DC for winner and parent(s) – flight courtesy of Southwest Airline; complete with a hotel and money for expenses to attend a reception with Congressman. The artwork will hang in the Capitol for the following year.Second Place: $75 from funds donated by our event partners, $200 from the University of Montevallo. Third Place: $50 from funds donated by our event partners, $100 from the University of Montevallo.CONTACT: Cliff Smith, Communications Director, 202-225-4921 or Ray Melick, District Director, at (205) 968-1290. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.29.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, participated in a hearing on the “gyrocopter” incident that occurred on the west lawn of the Capitol last month, and says the following: “The recent gyrocopter landing on the Capitol lawn was a wakeup call. As it turned out, the pilot was a misguided protestor rather than a serious threat. But the fact that he progressed as far as he did exposed gaps in our security. Congress must ensure, through effective oversight, accountability for the agencies responsible for the safety and security of federal employees and the thousands who visit the capitol.” On March 15, 2015, Doug Hughes, a 61-year-old Florida mailman, piloted a small gyrocopter through over 30 miles of highly-restricted air zones around the National Capital Region. His slow moving aircraft barely registered on radar and was dismissed as an anomaly. The Capitol Police only became aware of his flight minutes before he landed. A decision was made by the Capitol Police not to shoot down his aircraft. Hughes was immediately arrested upon landing, and his aircraft was carefully inspected for threats. Alerts were sent to some members of the Capitol Hill community immediately, but not to others. There were breakdowns in communication between agencies responsible for security of the Capitol. Previously, Hughes communicated his desire to execute this plan openly. He had been interviewed by the Secret Service twice in the last two years concerning his plans, but was not deemed a credible threat. More recently, he had communicated to the Tampa Bay Times about his plans, seeking publicity, and live-streamed his flight on the internet. The Tampa Bay Times alerted the Secret Service about the potential threat, but beyond the Secret Service sending information to the Capitol Police, no further action was taken. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.28.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. – The Supreme Court is hearing oral arguments today on question on whether the Constitution requires the redefinition of marriage to include two members of the same sex, and Congressman Palmer provides the following remarks: “I believe that marriage is correctly defined as being between one man and one woman. This definition is rooted both in sacred truths and in history. I believe the Supreme Court wrongly decided the Windsor case holding that the federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) was unconstitutional. “However, in Windsor, the Court correctly noted that the definition of marriage was an area traditionally left to the states. The overwhelming majority of Alabamians agree with me that marriage is between one man and one woman. We enshrined this truth in our State Constitution by more than a 4-1 margin in 2006. “Now, the Supreme Court is being asked to invalidate all state laws that have a politically incorrect definition of marriage. If the Court strikes down as unconstitutional laws it specifically hailed as sacrosanct less than two years ago, we would see the height of judicial overreach. It would be legislating from the bench. The Supreme Court should honor its own precedent and respect the will of the people in the states which hold a traditional view of marriage.” Congressman Palmer is a co-sponsor of H.R. 824, the State Defense of Marriage Act, which will require all administrative agencies to respect the role of states by using the definition of marriage where the individual lives with regard to all federal laws that involve marriage. States can still choose to define marriage as they wish. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.24.2015	For Immediate Release Hoover, AL – High school students who submitted artwork for the annual Sixth District Congressional Art Competition will have their artwork displayed at the Riverchase Galleria Mall in Hoover from Saturday, April 25, through Saturday, May 2. Students from any high school within the Sixth District are eligible. The office of Congressman Gary Palmer (R-Hoover) is spearheading the event. The winning submission from Alabama’s Sixth District will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol with student artwork from other Congressional districts across America. High school students from more than 200 congressional districts participate in the annual contest. Students submitted entries to the District office, and a panel of local artists will select the winning entries. Winners are recognized both in their district and at an annual awards ceremony in Washington, DC. The winning works are displayed for one year at the U.S. Capitol. “I am proud to support education and the young artists that are participating in this competition,” said Palmer, “The Birmingham area has a thriving arts community and these young people already are part of it. They will continue to make important contributions in the years to come.” Everyone is encouraged to view the artwork. WHO: Local High School Artists & Office of Congressman Gary PalmerWHAT: Congressional Art Competition displayWHEN: Saturday, April 25th through Monday May 2nd.WHERE: 2000 Riverchase Galleria Hoover, Alabama 35244 (The artwork will be on display on the lower level outside the entrance to Belk’s.) This artwork and winning artists will be recognized by Congressman Palmer at a reception at the Hoover Library, May 4 at 6 p.m., CST. Further information on the reception to follow.CONTACT: Cliff Smith, Communications Director, 202-225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov or Ray Melick, District Director, at (205) 968-1290, ray.melick@mail.house.gov. U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.23.2015	For Immediate Release Vestavia Hills, AL – The Office of Congressman Gary Palmer announces that a $160,740 grant has been awarded to VHFD by the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG). The department’s application competed against thousands through a peer review process for a portion of federal funding. “The men and women at VHFD put their lives on the line to ensure the safety of the members of their community,” said Palmer. “While this request predates my time in office, it is appropriate that public officials in Alabama work together with our fire departments like Vestavia Hills in an effort to support their good work.” The grant will be used for equipment designed specifically for wild land firefighting. The VHFD responded to numerous wild land incidents in 2014 which challenged the department’s capabilities and showed the need for improvement. This equipment, combined with additional training which has already been conducted, will better prepare VHFD to serve our community. Funds awarded under the Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) program are used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical services organizations. Only the applications most closely conforming to program priorities are considered and scored by peer review panels. The program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. CONTACT: Communications Director Cliff Smith, 202-225-4921, Clifford.Smith@mail.house.gov, or District Director Ray Melick, (205) 968-1290, Ray.Melick@mail.house.gov. U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, participated in a hearing entitled “Hydraulic Fracturing: Banning Proven Technologies on Possibilities Instead of Probabilities,” and offers the following statement: “One of my first priorities in Congress is getting our fiscal house in order. Between 2007-2013, the economy has seen increased gains of $74 billion per year as a result of fracking. During this same period, consumer gas bills dropped by $13 billion in a result of increased fracking. This is just the beginning. Advances in fracking technology have made America an energy superpower. Accessing our energy reserves must be a major part of our economic recovery plan. “As the evidence at the hearing demonstrated, there are no confirmed instances of fracking polluting ground water and no demonstrated link between earthquakes and fracking, and advances in fracking technology has resulted in a 73% reduction in methane emissions since 2011. I encourage Congress to work toward making safe utilization of our natural resources a priority by lifting artificial barriers that prevent development.” The Congressman’s remarks at the hearing can be seen here: https://youtu.be/6b-30TGmGVU For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.21.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, strongly supports H.J. Res. 43, “Disapproving the action of the District of Columbia Council in approving the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act of 2014,” and issues the following statement: “The right to life and the right to free exercise of religion are fundamental to everything I believe. The Declaration of Independence says that we have certain unalienable rights, including the right to life. The First Amendment to the Constitution enshrines the right to free exercise of religion. Whenever these rights are threatened, Congress should take action. H.J. Res. 43 would ensure that these rights are protected, and I am proud to support it.” On January 23, 2015, newly elected D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) signed the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act of 2014. Outgoing Mayor Vincent Gray (D) opposed the bill on the grounds that it was “legally problematic” under the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act and the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The bill adds “reproductive health decisions” to D.C.’s nondiscrimination laws. This could force religious, pro-life and similar organizations to hire people who support abortion, and even force them to provide insurance coverage for abortion. In 1973, Congress passed the Home Rule Act, which gave the D.C. Government considerable autonomy. However, it also provided for a 30 day congressional review period of all D.C. legislation. The bill was sent to Congress for review on March 6, 2015. The period for this review lasts until April 30, 2014. If enacted into law, H.J. Res. 43 would block implementation of D.C.’s Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act. The Oversight Committee recently held a markup of the bill, and Congressman Palmer supported the bill at the markup. The bill passed by a 20-16 margin.For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.16.2015	For Immediate Release Rep. Palmer voted today for H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act, and gives the following statement: “The bill we passed today would permanently eliminate the death tax. This is long overdue. The death tax presents a significant danger to family farms and other small business. The death tax, originally created to fund the World War I, was intended to be temporary. I doubt it was ever good policy, but in any event, the purpose for it has long passed and it is time it meet its permanent end.” “After her father was killed in a tragic farming accident, my colleague, Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD) had to drop out of college and take out a large loan to save her family farm from the death tax. It affected nearly every decision her family made for a decade. This should never happen. “I have worked behind the scenes for repeal of the death tax for almost 20 years. Today was my first opportunity to step forward and cast a vote for full and permanent repeal. This legislation also lowers the rate of the gift tax from 40 percent to 35 percent. Reducing it five percent is a good start, although it should be even lower.” Currently, the death tax is a 40 percent tax on an individual’s transfer of assets upon their death. The death tax has forced small businesses and family farms to have to sell all or part of the business or farm, lay off workers, or take out large loans, to pay the tax. The tax amounts to double taxation, since the money has already been taxed in the regular course of business. It is the fourth highest death tax in the world. Countries like Australia and Canada have no death tax. The bill passed the House by a vote of 240-179. Congresswoman Noem’s personal testimony on the issue can be viewed here: https://youtu.be/xYOYONA5wVo For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.15.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee, took part in a Science Committee hearing on the President’s unilateral commitment to the U.N. to reduce carbon emissions by 28% in the next decade, and offers the following statement: “I have a long history of advocating for common sense environmentalism while fighting environmental alarmism. This hearing demonstrated that our current path is based on alarmism. As Dr. Curry testified at the hearing, climate has always changed and always will change, and the models that proponents of vastly reduced carbon emissions rely upon to justify their preferred policies, have proven inaccurate. “The unilateral, arbitrary commitment by the Administration, if implemented, will have devastating effect on our economy, especially on lower income Americans. The Administration has also relied upon unconstitutional executive overreach in efforts to attain this goal. Congress should consider every possible method of fighting back against this overreach to solve an uncertain problem.” Dr. Judith Curry is a Professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology’s the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences and is the former Chair of the School of Earth and Atmospheric Science and the President of Climate Forecast Applications Network (CFAN). Her full bio and testimony is attached. Congressman Palmer’s hearing questions can be seen here: https://youtu.be/WuHGv1uan_I For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.14.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, commends the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on its new report, and calls for the elimination of on duplicative spending and waste and for the implementation of cost savings and revenue enhancement plans: “GAO’s 2015 report identifies $80 Billion in real savings and proposes substantial financial solutions. One of my highest priorities in Congress is getting our fiscal house in order by reducing government spending, and there is near universal agreement that the kind of overlapping, unnecessary spending identified by GAO should be eliminated. Also, we should utilize our own resources, such as the strategic petroleum reserve and ensure people pay the taxes they owe, to enhance revenue without raising taxes. The GAO’s recommendations should be implemented as part of our effort to balance the budget.” The 2015 GAO report can be viewed here: https://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-15-404SP#mt=summary&st=2 Congressman Palmer’s hearing questions can be seen here: https://youtu.be/41aeSWte0TI For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.14.2015	For Immediate Release Washington D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, expresses deep concern over the allegations of sexual misconduct and bureaucratic unaccountability at the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA). Serious allegations have arisen that DEA agents have been involved in soliciting prostitutes and other sexual misconduct while in Cartagena, Colombia. This conduct may have also led to communications devices and credentials being compromised: “The hearings today demonstrate that there are serious issues with the culture at the DEA and equally serious problems concerning accountability. The DEA Administrator claimed she lacked authority to fire or even seriously discipline agents who had conducted themselves in deplorable ways, such as soliciting underage prostitutes. Further, she admitted there was no policy that required a DEA agent to keep weapons or devices with sensitive information out of control of foreign nationals. Clearly, there needs to be more accountability in the agency.” These allegations are even more troubling given the difficulty that the DOJ’s Inspector General (IG) has faced in investigating these problems. He was unable to obtain documents requested from either the DEA or the FBI. When asked directly whether or not his investigation had been obstructed, the DOJ IG said, “Yes.” The IG’s report can be accessed here:https://www.justice.gov/oig/reports/2015/e1504.pdf Congressman Palmer’s hearing questions can be seen here:https://youtu.be/vt5pBOtn0-w For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.13.2015	For Immediate Release Congressman Gary Palmer (R-Hoover) was pleased to meet today with Ashley DeRamus to discuss issues related to Down syndrome and special needs. “Ashley DeRamus’s life is a testament to the wonderful contributions people with disabilities can make to all of us. She is a courageous advocate for the betterment of the lives of those with disabilities and is an inspiration. Tragically, many who have Down syndrome are not ever born. I believe that all life is sacred and deserves protection. The world is a much better place because Ashley’s parents chose life.” Ashley DeRamus is a resident of Hoover, Alabama who was born with Down syndrome. She created the Ashley DeRamus foundation dedicated to advocating for those with Down syndrome and special needs. She also successfully launched a clothing line aimed at people with Down syndrome, and was honored by Hoover Mayor Gary Ivey for her efforts to raise awareness of those with Down syndrome. Pictures of Congressman Palmer and Ashley DeRamus are attached. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
04.03.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer is deeply concerned about the announced ‘framework’ agreement concerning Iran’s nuclear program. Noting that Iran is the foremost state sponsor of terrorism in the world and that it is responsible for the deaths of many Americans, he issues the following statement: “Iran’s drive to obtain nuclear capability is a serious problem and there is bipartisan concern about this grave threat. Although the deal has limited details, even those limited ones leave cause for concern. The framework, on its face, is far from the original purpose of the talks. Furthermore, I do not believe Iran intends to abide by any agreement it makes. “The multi-party talks were intended to discuss dismantling the Iranian nuclear program, but the President has now announced a ‘framework’ of an agreement which allows Iran to keep over 6000 centrifuges and requires them to be only one year away from a nuclear weapon for 10 years. It does not dismantle Iran’s nuclear program and the ambitions of Iran’s radical clerics are not likely to end in 10 years. “The President claims this agreement is the only alternative to war. This statement itself is indicative of how the tables have turned in respect to the lack of fear and respect Iran has for this Administration. It should have been Iran who came to the table to negotiate in good faith as an alternative to a strategic and decisive response from the United States and our allies. “The failure of this Administration to force Iran to definitively abandon its nuclear weapons program leaves Congress as the backstop against this grave threat to the security of the United States, Israel and Europe. As the letter drafted by Sen. Tom Cotton (R- AR) and signed by 47 United States Senators reminded the Iranian government, Congress must have final approval of any agreement, and any agreement that does not stop Iran from achieving nuclear weapons capability is unacceptable.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.26.2015	For Immediate Release: Alabama Congressman Gary Palmer wishes to welcome President Obama to the State of Alabama, and offer the following statement: “As an Alabamian, I want to welcome President Obama to my state. Alabama is a diverse state, famous for its wonderful people, thriving industries, top-flight institutions of higher education, and world-class sports. I hope President Obama enjoys our southern hospitality. “I understand that the purpose of the President’s trip is to give a speech on economic development. I agree that economic development is of paramount importance, particularly for lower and middle income Americans. “However, after more than six years of President Obama’s Administration, I believe he has taken the wrong approach. Recovery from the recession has been historically slow, and millions have dropped out of the workforce. The brunt of this stagnant economy has fallen primarily on the poor. “The President’s response to this has been to impose economy stifling environmental regulations that are driving up energy costs that are particularly hard on senior citizens and low to middle income families. This is precisely the wrong approach. Recovery from the most recent recession is the slowest in the past 70 years, but utilizing America’s vast energy resources within a framework of reasonable regulations will unleash our potential as an energy super power and launch the economic recovery we desperately need. “So while I welcome President Obama to Alabama, I also encourage him to take another look at what his policies thus far have meant for the economy, and to chart a different course than he has taken for his first six years in office. Only sustained growth in our economy, which has been lacking under his Administration, will provide lower and middle income Americans with the opportunities they need to better their situation and share fully in the promise of America.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, Clifford.Smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.25.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer voted for the Republican budget resolution that was passed by the House today and offers the following statement: “We face a fiscal crisis in America. We spend more than we earn and then try to pretend deficits don’t matter. Our national debt is now over $18 trillion, and the deficit is set to rise massively in coming years due to structural problems with Medicare, Social Security, and other entitlement programs. Because of this, righting our fiscal ship is one of my top priorities. “This budget was not perfect. I believe this budget, like the Republican Study Committee budget which I also supported, could have been more aggressive in fixing our fiscal problems. However, this budget creates a framework for reducing the size and scope of government by proposing serious reforms that steer us in the right direction. It repeals Obamacare, strengthens Medicare by providing market incentives for both better and less expensive care, lifts the ban on crude oil exports and creates work requirements for welfare. The House should act on each of these provisions and fully implement the budget. If this is done, I believe that the savings and economic growth that will occur as a result will exceed projections and further contribute to fixing the federal deficit and debt. “I applaud the leadership of Chairman Tom Price and the hard work of the Budget Committee and Budget Committee staff in creating this budget and I hope we continue on the path of shrinking the size and scope of the federal government while empowering Americans to live up to their full potential.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer notes the five year anniversary of the so-called Affordable Care Act and offers the following statement: “The Affordable Care Act (ACA), also known as Obamacare, was passed on a strictly partisan vote over the clear and obvious objections of the American people, who continue to oppose this government takeover of the health care industry. It was a mistake of historic proportions. “Five years later, the ACA has not lived up to its promises. People are losing their health care plans, are seeing their premiums rise rapidly, being forced to buy coverage they cannot afford, and being penalized if they don’t. It is also adding billions to the deficit. Unfortunately, this is just the start of the problems it will create. “Congress should continue the fight to replace the ACA with free market reforms like buying insurance across state lines and ensuring people can take their health care plans from one job to another. Doing so will remain a priority for me until the goal is accomplished.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.18.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman Gary Palmer voted for two bills on the House floor, H.R. 1029, The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act, and H.R. 1030, The Secret Science Reform Act, which he had previously supported as a member of the Science, Space and Technology Committee. These bills make positive reforms to the EPA to enforce accountability and transparency. “The EPA is an agency with serious and systemic problems. It has abused its power to achieve goals which are not supported by the American people, and too often does so without sufficient transparency or public input. These bills will resolve some of these ongoing problems, and move us in the right direction by ensuring the EPA does not rely on secret, unverifiable science, and by ensuring scientific review does not become politicized. “I have a long history of advocating for sound environmental policies while rejecting environmental extremism. I look forward to supporting more EPA reforms.” Background information: H.R. 1029: The Science Advisory Board was established in 1978 to review the scientific foundations of EPA’s decisions. Recently, the board has limited public participation and EPA has interfered with the board’s work. H.R. 1029 allows for greater public participation in the board’s activities, and reinforces peer-review requirements and reducing conflicts of interests. It also limits the board’s ability to make non-scientific policy advice. H.R. 1030: This bill restricts the ability of the EPA to rely on non-public science to justify their regulations, which has been an issue repeatedly in recent years. The bill includes protections to ensure that personal and confidential information remains private. It is supported by a wide array of groups and scientific experts, including Ivy League professors and two former chairs of the EPA science committee. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.17.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, questioned FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler today, and offers the following statement: “The FCC’s ‘Net Neutrality’ rules have been handled with little to no transparency. FCC Chairman Wheeler told me today that he said that he cannot remember talking with White House senior counselor John Podesta, even though such a discussion occurred according to the FCC’s calendar. He also claims he cannot recall the substance of other discussions that records indicate he had with the White House. “Commissioner Ajit Pai has publicly stated that this issue was only brought up again because the Obama White House wanted it resurrected after the FCC suffered a defeat in court regarding an earlier attempt to craft similar rules. Commissioner Wheeler and the other commissioners who passed these damaging and unnecessary regulations need to honor their commitment and be transparent with the American people.” You can watch Congressman Palmer’s questions in their entirety here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=an3LBa5hAJY For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.17.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the Budget Committee, offers the following statement on the proposed budget released today: “One of my first priorities as a member of Congress is getting the country’s fiscal house in order. We must end the era of endless deficits and debt that is spiraling out of control. The national debt has risen by almost 50% in the past six years alone, and while the deficit has been temporarily reduced, it has not been eliminated and all projections indicate that it will resume a steep and continuous rise unless serious reforms are made as to how Washington spends the taxpayer’s hard-earned dollars. “There are several positive aspects of this proposal. This budget strengthens Medicare by creating a premium support system that will provide market incentives for both better and less expensive care, while not making any changes for those at or near retirement. It repeals Obamacare in full, including repealing the Medicaid expansion under Obamacare which will save over $900 billion by 2025. It also reforms Medicaid by giving greater flexibility to the states to ensure it is spent only on those who need it most. It starts the process of addressing Social Security insolvency by stopping any raids on the retirement trust fund and by setting up a framework for further structural reforms. “I think we can do more. Federal spending still exceeds revenues in the coming years in this proposal, but I believe there will be good opportunities from the framework the committee has created. Congress should act on them.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.06.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer commemorates the 50th anniversary of the events surrounding the march for civil rights from Selma to Montgomery, and offers the following thoughts: “The events in Selma 50 years ago showed America at both its best and at its worst. Yet ultimately, it was the best of America that triumphed. Men and women of all races stood up, against scorn, intimidation, and violence to uphold the truth of an idea that was laid out by America’s founders in the Declaration of Independence, ‘that all men are created equal, and endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights.’ It was for those rights, enshrined in our founding documents but not fully realized, that they marched. It was only with faith in God and in solidarity with one another, they were eventually victorious in helping to realize Dr. Martin Luther King’s dream that people are judged, not by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character. We honor those men and women who marched as we continue to strive to live the ideals expressed both in the Declaration and so eloquently by Dr. King.” Congressman Palmer will be taking part in events sponsored by the Faith & Politics Institute at the Birmingham Civil Rights Institute to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Selma march. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.04.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Congressman Gary Palmer, a co-founder and former President of the Alabama Policy Institute, applauds the Alabama Supreme Court’s decision concerning Alabama’s marriage laws, and further applauds the Alabama Policy Institute for bringing the case: “I believe that marriage is correctly defined as being between one man and one woman. The overwhelming majority of the people of Alabama agree with me. We enshrined this truth into the Alabama State Constitution by more than a 4-1 margin in 2006. The Alabama Supreme Court has sided with the will of the people, not one unelected federal judge. “As legal experts and many prior appellate court decisions have recognized, a federal district judge cannot bind a state supreme court. The Alabama Supreme Court affirmed this, and thus correctly ruled that, ‘Alabama probate judges have a ministerial duty not to issue any marriage license contrary to (Alabama) law. Nothing in the United States Constitution alters or overrides this duty.’ “I appreciate the leadership at the Alabama Policy Institute, along with the Alabama Citizens Action Program, for taking the lead on this issue and bringing this case to the Alabama Supreme Court. They chose to stand strongly for the values of the people of Alabama, knowing that such a decision will not be popular with many elites. I know that the people of Alabama will be well served by the Alabama Policy Institute’s continued hard work on behalf of common sense conservative ideas and bold leadership.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram
03.03.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer met with Major General Theodore Harrison, the Commanding General of the Army Contracting Command stationed in Redstone Arsenal, Alabama. Major General Harrison presented Palmer with an Army seal and congratulations from the Army: “I believe strongly in the mission of the U.S. Army and have nothing but admiration for the men and women who put their lives on the line in service to their country. It is an honor to accept this recognition on behalf of the people of Alabama’s Sixth Congressional District from the US Army, particularly from someone as distinguished as Major General Harrison. “The first and most important duty of the federal government is national defense. I am a friend of our Armed Forces and I look forward to working with leaders like Major General Harrison to ensure our soldiers are taken care of and our national security challenges are met from a position of strength.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.03.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Gary Palmer voted against a bill that would allow for Department of Homeland Security (DHS) funds to go toward President Obama’s unconstitutional executive action concerning immigration, and is deeply disappointed that the bill passed: “I have no higher priority as a member of Congress than restoring Constitutional governance. When it comes to funding DHS, the focus has been on immigration, but that is really not the issue. The real issue is the separation of powers set up by our Constitution. I believe the President, the Congress and the Courts should have the power given to them by the Constitution but not one power more. “I am pleased that a court has given an injunction against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive order, and I hope that will result in this illegal order being permanently struck down. However, it is not the sole function of the judiciary to uphold the Constitution. Congressmen also take an oath to uphold and defend the Constitution. This vote was not about politics, but about keeping my oath. “Congress can and should pass legislation to secure our borders and fix our immigration system, but nothing in the law justifies unilateral action by the executive. The Constitution forbids the executive from unilaterally making law, and that is precisely what the President is attempting to do. I have consistently opposed measures that would legitimize President Obama’s unlawful executive action and I am deeply disappointed that this bill has passed. “If Congress does not stand up for its own Constitutional role in the process of governance, no one else will. I fear this vote today will lead to further lawless action by the executive branch and further erosion of the powers granted to the Congress by the Constitution.”For Further Information, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.02.2015	March 2, 2015 For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer issued the following statement in regards to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s speech before Congress: “The diplomatic relationship between the United States and Israel is one of America’s most important. This is based not just on common interests, but common values. Like America, Israel is democratic, guarantees religious freedom, and is governed by the rule of law. Like America, not only was Israel born out of adversity, but is based not only on geography, but on an idea. Unlike America, Israel is not bordered by two large oceans and two friendly neighbors. Instead, Israel has many hostile neighbors who wish to do it harm. Our friend and ally Israel faces a grave threat from the Islamic Republic of Iran, which has explicitly threatened to wipe Israel off the map and is aggressively pursuing the capability to carry out that threat. Threats to Israel’s very existence are a daily reality. There is little hope for diplomacy with Iran succeeding, and any agreement that does not include Iran dismantling its nuclear program is futile. Negotiations are being used as tools by the militant Mullahs of Iran to hide their intentions and buy time. It is unfortunate that the Prime Minister’s speech has become politicized, and some Democrats are boycotting the speech. Support for Israel is historically bipartisan, and it should remain as such. Even senior Democratic leaders, such as Sen. Bob Menendez, the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, have had profound differences with this Administration’s approach to Iran. I urge those Democrats who are boycotting the speech to reconsider and show support for our ally Israel. I look forward to hearing Prime Minister Netanyahu address colleagues on both sides of the isle concerning this grave threat. The friendship between Israel and America runs deep, and we must ensure it always will.” For any additional questions, contact:Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
03.02.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer strongly disagrees with the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) “net neutrality” order as both an unnecessary and beyond the scope of power prescribed to the FCC by Congress, and issued the following statement: “The FCC’s ‘net neutrality’ erodes the authority of Congress. The FCC, an independent federal agency, does not have the authority to write laws, but in a 3-2 ruling has done just that. Moreover, as FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai pointed out in his dissenting statement, this order opens the door to taxing the internet, is likely to increase rates, and was previously rejected by the FCC, only to have it resurrected at the behest of the White House. Finally, by putting internet content under the thumb of federal bureaucrats, this ruling threatens free speech. This ruling cannot be allowed to stand. “The internet is one of the great success stories of free enterprise. It has grown rapidly in the past two decades precisely because it is unfettered by intrusive regulations. Free markets have ensured low prices for consumers and entrepreneurs alike. The internet will not be made ‘more free’ through government intrusion, particularly as we already have laws to stop the hypothetical anti-competitive practices that this order is supposedly intended to fix. “That unelected FCC Commissioners are using a 1930’s law written to regulate an entirely different industry to justify this order demonstrates that their order is purely political. Any change in the law requires action from Congress, not federal bureaucrats. “Commissioner Pai said it best in his dissent, when he said, ‘because this Order imposes intrusive government regulations that won’t work to solve a problem that doesn’t exist using legal authority the FCC doesn’t have, I dissent.’ I could not have put it better.”For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.24.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Gary Palmer expressed disappointment and strong disapproval of President Obama’s decision to veto S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act: “The Keystone Pipeline Approval Act was passed by large, bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress, and more importantly, with the overwhelming support of the American people. Polls indicate that people support building Keystone by a three-to-one margin. Even amongst Democrats, polls indicate that only ‘solid liberals’ were opposed to Keystone while other Democrats were supportive. Construction of Keystone would mean thousands of jobs for an economy still struggling nearly six years after the great recession.” The President’s veto validates criticism that his Administration is not interested in further utilization of the vast and not yet fully realized potential of America’s energy sector. When it comes to energy resources -- oil, natural gas, and coal -- the U.S. is one of the wealthiest nations in the world. Only a small but vocal minority opposes responsible use of these resources. “America’s energy resources should be used responsibly to help grow our economy. But if we cannot build a simple pipeline because of the objections of the extreme environmental lobby, it hampers our ability to move forward in growing our energy sector. I urge the members of the House and Senate to listen to the American people, not special interest lobbyists with an extreme agenda, and override this veto.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.govU.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.18.2015	For Immediate Release Congressman Gary Palmer, a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, released a letter today sent to the U.S. Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) regarding serious ongoing concerns with the railroad occupational disability program. Palmer, in his first oversight letter, cites a Seven-Day Letter to Congress from the RRB Inspector General (IG). Seven-Day Letters are required by law for “particularly serious or flagrant problems, abuses, or deficiencies.” The IG’s letter notes a 98% national occupational disability approval rate. In one case cited in the letter, the RRB re-adjudicated a number of claims put forth by the Long Island Rail Road employees under “increased scrutiny,” all of the claims were reapproved, despite the fact that those employees eventually entered guilty pleas to committing fraud against the RRB. “It is necessary that disability programs of the federal government serve those with true needs. However, it is my understanding that a person does not have to be ‘disabled,’ as the term is generally understood, in order to qualify for an occupational disability. “The RRB’s occupational disability program might be in the category of programs that have served a purpose and now need serious examination of their utility and effectiveness in the modern workforce.” Background Information: The Railroad Retirement Act provides two types of disability annuities: total and occupational. The Railroad Retirement Board is in charge of investigating and determining whether an individual is disabled. Under the current structure, the Board approves more than 90% of those applying for occupational disability. Both the U.S. Government and Accountability Office and RRB Inspector General have raised concerns about fraud within the system, but the Board has done little to address the problems. There does not appear to be any other industry where employees can apply for occupational disability. Unlike total disability, where a person can no longer work, under occupational disability the individual can receive a check from the government and find another job making more than he made in the railroad industry. He is considered to be occupationally disabled, simply because he can no longer do the railroad job he was doing, even if he could perform a separate railroad job. There are questions as to whether this category should have ever existed, but circumstances have definitely changed since it was created in 1945. The 1990 Commission on Railroad Retirement Reform recommended limiting recovery under occupational disability to 24 months. “The country is $18 trillion in debt. RRB might seem like a small program in Washington terms, but Congress has an obligation to make sure every dime we spend breeds public confidence. This program does not appear to meet that standard.” A copy of the letter from Congressman Palmer to the RRB is attached. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.17.2015	February 17, 2015 For Immediate Release Congressman Gary Palmer issued the following statement after a court in the Southern District of Texas issued a ruling to enjoin President Obama’s unilateral and unconstitutional executive action related to immigration. “This ruling is the first step in restoring constitutional governance by respecting and upholding the separation of powers. The ruling should come as no surprise to the Obama Administration or members of Congress given the clear lack of constitutional authority to support President Obama’s executive order. Now that a federal judge has stayed the Obama Administration from implementing the executive order to grant amnesty to almost five million illegal aliens, there is no need for the Senate to delay passage of the DHS funding bill passed by the House of Representatives. The fact that the House bill did not include funding for the processing and assimilating the illegal aliens should be a moot point and should not prevent passage of the bill. Unless the Democrats in the Senate wish to ignore the decision of the court, they should end their filibuster and allow the DHS funding bill to go to the Senate floor. The House-passed DHS funding bill is consistent with the federal judge’s order and provides the funding necessary for ensuring that DHS can carry out its mission without undue and unnecessary interruption. The court decision affirms what President Obama had previously said; he had no authority to act unilaterally. Now is the time for the Senate to pass the DHS Appropriations bill that has already cleared the House and would restore separation of powers.” The President’s executive action was challenged by 26 states, including Alabama.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.06.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer issued the following statement after three attempts to pass a bill funding the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) were filibustered in the Senate: “One of the first votes I took as a new member of Congress was to fund DHS to ensure our borders are secure and that the American people are protected against threats to our homeland. I also took a strong stand to fulfill my oath of office to defend the Constitution by voting to provide no funds to implement the President’s unconstitutional executive action concerning immigration. Unfortunately, in the Senate, the DHS funding bill has faced repeated filibusters this week by a minority of Senators, a number of which are on-record as opposing the Presidents unconstitutional executive action. This is simply wrong. No one who has taken an oath to uphold the Constitution should take extreme obstructionist measures to protect an unconstitutional action for the sake of politics. Fidelity to the Constitution should always trump politics and partisanship. The Senate should immediately pass the DHS funding bill to ensure our security, and to defend the Constitution.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.03.2015	For Immediate Release "I believe marriage is between one man and one woman, as do a large majority of the people of Alabama. The recent court decisions are troubling and disappointing. Unelected judges are achieving a political end that has been rejected by the electorate. I applaud Attorney General Luther Strange for appealing to the Supreme Court for a stay and hope that a stay is granted pending the resolution of the issue before the Supreme Court." For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.03.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer issued the following statement after voting to repeal Obamacare: “The Affordable Care Act, commonly referred to as Obamacare, represents a federal takeover of our health care system. As its critics predicted, it has not improved access to health care. It has, however, forced many Americans to purchase policies they do not want or need at higher premiums. The effort to fully repeal it must continue. I appreciate the leadership of Congressman Bradley Byrne in continuing this effort. The bill we passed today would fully repeal Obamacare and instruct the Congress to replace it with common sense solutions. We need a health care plan that allows market competition between health insurance providers that will result in more choices for plans and at lower costs. I hope the Senate will take up this legislation and send it to the President.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer, a member of the House Budget Committee, offers the following statement concerning the budget proposed by President Obama: “What President Obama has proposed is not a budget, it is a conglomeration of policies and programs that Congress has rejected during his first six years in office. The primary purpose of the nation's budget should be to secure our financial future and assure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely. Instead, the President's proposal continues the path to economic ruin. I will give him credit for remaining consistent with his spending visions, which have been consistently rejected by the Congress every time he has proposed them. If the President were serious about working with the Congress, he would have set some reasonable priorities. What he’s produced is rhetoric about helping the middle class and a document that does not match that rhetoric. Increasing taxes and spending is not the way to help the middle class. We need to find ways to reduce the tax burden across the board. In a few months, the nation will be faced with another debt limit increase. We cannot look the American people in the eyes and tell them we need to increase the debt limit, while continuing to spend more. This budget proposes $4 trillion in spending, but the Administration acknowledges that projected revenues are only $3.52 trillion. Thus, if the numbers were true, we would be looking at a $474 billion deficit. Given this is only a projection, the deficit would be even higher. Finally, economic growth does not come from bigger government, but from fiscal discipline. This budget is anything but disciplined.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.28.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary offers the following statement concerning the rally for school choice taking place Wednesday in Montgomery, and the wider School Choice Week that is taking place all over the nation: “Having been an advocate for school choice for more than two decades, I am pleased that citizens in Alabama, and all over America, are choosing to highlight the importance of this issue. Alabama has made significant progress in recent years expanding school choice, but there is still a long way to go. The broad-based coalition of organizations supporting school choice in Alabama, which includes the Alabama Opportunity Scholarship Fund, the Black Alliance for Educational Options, Students First Alabama, the American Federation for Children, the Alabama Business Education Alliance, the Alabama Public Charter School Alliance, and the Business Council of Alabama, is very encouraging for the future of school choice in Alabama. I’m certain their efforts will have a big impact and will continue to create more opportunities for students in Alabama to achieve the education they need and deserve.” This week is the fifth Annual School Choice Week, which was started in 2011. There are approximately 11,000 independently planned events happening around the country in support of school choice as a result. More than 2000 people are expected to attend the rally in Montgomery today. The organizers intend to support choices ranging from traditional public schools to public charter schools, magnet schools, private schools, online learning, and homeschooling. The Alabama State Legislature is expected to take up school choice measures in the upcoming legislative session. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.24.2015	For Immediate Release "I'm more than disappointed by the ruling. This is yet another attempt to usurp the will of the people through judicial fiat. I hope the 11th Circuit will quickly reverse the decision." For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.23.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer is currently participating in a Congressional delegation that is visiting America’s southwest border in the next few days. The delegation will visit several stops along the southwest border, including stops in San Diego, California, Tucson and Sierra Vista, Arizona, and McAllen, Texas. The visit is being led by House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul, and members will examine the evolving national security threats to the Homeland; security at our southwest border; best practices to secure land and sea borders; technology currently deployed at the border; and analyze and assess inter-governmental integration and cooperation to secure the U.S. border with critical components including the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Defense. The visit will conclude on January 26th. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.22.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer released the following statement in relation to his appointment to represent the states of Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina on the Republican Policy Committee: “I am honored and appreciate the opportunity to serve in the Republican Policy Committee.” The mission of the House Republican Policy Committee is to serve the nation by working with House leadership, Committee leadership, Members, staff and results-focused outside groups to equip leaders with sound conservative policy research for the purpose of developing solutions to the issues our nation faces. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to help develop policy solutions for the people of Alabama’s 6th Congressional District and the nation.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.22.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer released the following statement on choice of Birmingham, Alabama to be the host of the 2021 World Games: “I am delighted that Birmingham has been chosen to host the 2021 World Games. The World Games has not been held inside the United States since it was founded 1981, and it is a fantastic opportunity for the people of Birmingham and surrounding areas to display true southern hospitality. Also, the tourism and publicity it will generate will be a big boost to the economy of the region. The people of Birmingham are welcoming, hardworking and huge sports fans. The city features state of the art athletic facilities that will make for a fantastic event. The thousands of athletes that participate as well as the fans and spectators that will come from all over the world will find that they could have made no better choice.” The World Games was originally created to highlight athletic events that were not part of the Olympic Games, although some have since been included in the Olympics. Approximately 4000 athletes from around the world compete every 4 years. 500,000 fans attended the last World Games in Columbia and the event is expected to generate approximately $250 million for the city. Birmingham beat Lima, Peru and Ufa, Russia in the final round for the honor of holding the games. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram.
01.16.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer, a member of the Oversight and Government Reform, and Space, Science and Technology Committees has received three subcommittee assignments. Palmer will serve on the Space, Science and Technology Subcommittees on Environment, and Research and Technology. He will also serve on the Interior Subcommittee for Oversight and Government Reform. The Subcommittee on Research and Technology has jurisdiction over matters relating to science policy, mathematics, education, university research and biomedical engineering. Subcommittee Chairwoman Barbara Comstock (R-VA) said, “I am pleased to work with Congressman Palmer and I am certain his decades of experience in policy will be very valuable in helping the subcommittee find ways to improve our research and technology policy.” The Subcommittee on Environment has jurisdiction over the EPA, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and NASA earth science. Congressman Jim Bridenstine (R-OK), the subcommittee chairman, welcomed his new colleague, saying “Gary Palmer is a strong conservative voice that has been outspoken against EPA overreach for years. I look forward to working with him both on the Environment subcommittee and in Congress.” The Subcommittee on Interior has jurisdiction over the EPA, the Department of Energy, the Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior. “I look forward to working with Congressman Palmer on the Interior subcommittee and I believe he will be a strong voice in holding government accountable to the American people,” said Congressman Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), the Chairman of the Interior subcommittee. “I am pleased with each of these subcommittee assignments. Each fits well with my background, and the issues they deal with are particularly relevant to the people of Alabama’s 6th Congressional District. I am looking forward to working with the other members on these subcommittees.” said Palmer. Palmer is also a member of the Committee on the Budget, which has no subcommittees. For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook, Twitter or Instagram.
01.14.2015	For Immediate Release Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer made the following remarks today concerning his vote in favor of the Department of Homeland Security funding bill that blocks President Obama’s unconstitutional executive order concerning immigration. “On Wednesday I voted for five amendments to H.R. 240, the bill authorizing funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The amendments have been wrongly characterized as anti-immigrant. The five amendments were not about immigration. By using an executive order to give amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants President Obama created a constitutional crisis that every member of Congress is honor-bound to oppose. Speaker of the House John Boehner and the other Republican leadership team members made it abundantly clear that the five amendments that were added to the DHS appropriations bill were added with the sole intention of reversing President Obama’s unconstitutional usurpation of the legislative powers of Congress. The oath each member takes is to uphold and defend the Constitution. There are no exemptions to that oath. We cannot decide that we will uphold it in all cases except when it doesn’t serve our political agenda. We cannot cite past incidences when other presidents or other Congresses violated the Constitution and claim those violations created a legal precedent that justifies more violations. And we can’t claim that a compelling humanitarian interest gives the Executive Branch or Congress justification to act unconstitutionally. Millions of people desire to come to the United States because our country is the freest, most prosperous nation in the world. We achieved that stature because our founding fathers gave us a republic based on a written constitution that divided our government into three branches with checks and balances for one reason -- to limit the power of government and protect the liberty of the people. By allowing the Executive Branch to assume to itself the powers of the Congress or the powers of the Court puts in jeopardy the very document that has made the United States so desirable to the millions who seek to come here. The genius of the Constitution is not just that it is a written document outlining our sacred rights, but that it provides for the separation of powers to ensure those rights are not abused. When one branch of government checks the power of another, those rights are more likely to be respected. History teaches us that when the separation of powers is violated, it has unintended consequences that end in ugly results, no matter what the intent. There is no justification for any elected official to willfully violate the oath to uphold and defend the Constitution. There are no loop holes. Every member of Congress swore to uphold and defend the Constitution. Every member of Congress who voted for the five amendments to H.R. 240 honored that commitment. I am proud to have been one of them.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook and Twitter.
01.09.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer announced today that he will co-sponsor the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36). This bill, which passed the House last Congress, would make abortion illegal after 20 weeks of gestation, the age scientific evidence demonstrates as being the age babies are capable of feeling pain. “It has long been my position that innocent human life in all its forms deserves protection. The Declaration of Independence states that all people have certain unalienable rights, including the right to life. ‘Unalienable’ means that the right is not given to us by government, but is a natural right granted by God. Without life, no other right matters. The right to life is fundamental to everything I believe. America is one of only seven countries that allow for abortion after 20 weeks. The only country in the world founded on the idea of unalienable rights must protect the most vulnerable amongst us. The Protect Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act will be a good step forward in protecting the unborn and I am proud to co-sponsor the bill. I urge my colleagues in both the House and Senate to pass the bill promptly.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook and Twitter.
01.08.2015	January 8, 2015 For Immediate Release Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Gary Palmer announced today that he will co-sponsor a bill to block the Obama Administration’s unconstitutional attempt to grant amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants by executive fiat. Titled, “To repeal executive immigration overreach, to clarify that the proper constitutional authority for immigration policy belongs to the legislative branch, and for other purposes,” (H.R. 191) this bill will block funds to implement executive amnesty. “President Obama has created a constitutional crisis, and members of the Congress are obligated by their own oaths to the constitution to respond to the crisis. This legislation does that and would restore constitutional balance between the branches of government. By taking this action, Congress reasserts its constitutional powers and establishes a foundation for opposing future executive orders that usurp Congressional authority. In passing this legislation, through the power of the purse, we will be preserving the power of Congress and halting the President’s unconstitutional action. I look forward to working with my colleagues to see its passage.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, clifford.smith@mail.house.gov U.S. Representative Gary Palmer (R-AL) serves on three Congressional committees: Oversight and Government Reform, Budget, and Space, Science and Technology. Visit Palmer online at his website or via Facebook and Twitter.
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Gary Palmer was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Gary Palmer was elected to serve as representative of Alabama’s 6th Congressional District. Representative Gary Palmer was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	For Immediate Release: January 6, 2015 Washington, DC – Congressman Gary Palmer, AL-06, made the following statement today concerning his vote for new Congressional leadership: “Today, I honored my commitment to the people who elected me by not voting for John Boehner as Speaker. That commitment alone might not have determined the outcome of the election, but it was one that I was honor-bound to keep. That obligation has now been met. Some people might question my judgment on this and other matters, but as much as it depends on me, I intend to conduct myself in such a way that no sensible or fair minded person can credibly question my character. I have often joked that, when I grow up, I want to be like Jeff Sessions, so I wanted to honor him, especially after he was denied the chance to chair the Senate Budget Committee. He is a man of high character and intellect and has not wavered under the pressure of Washington. His name now ranks among those who have been nominated as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives. Speaker Boehner has been retained, and I will work with him in an effort to improve the nation. I’m honored to represent the people in the 6th District of Alabama and to bring their views to Washington.” For any additional questions, contact: Cliff Smith, (202) 225-4921, Clifford.Smith@mail.house.gov
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
