01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), the Republican Leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the former Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement on today's funding agreement: Congressman McCaul: “I am pleased that President Trump and Congressional leadership have reached an agreement to reopen our federal government and provide a pathway forward on finally securing our border. Today’s agreement is a welcomed sight for 800,000 of our federal employees who have been working without pay or have been furloughed during the partial government shutdown. “Up until today, Democrats have been unwilling to acknowledge or address the threats that penetrate our porous border and permeate throughout our local communities. “Moving forward, I hope we are able to build on today’s success and move in a positive direction to find common ground. I will continue to work in a bipartisan fashion to ensure we can find a long-term, common-sense solution on government funding that solves the security and humanitarian crisis at our southern border.” ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), the Republican Leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the former Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, joined Congressman Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (I-MP) to introduce the Shark Fins Sales Elimination Act. This legislation will ban the buying and selling of shark fins in the United States. The act of shark finning – cutting off the fin of a shark and then discarding the maimed animal, often still alive, back to sea – is illegal in the United States. However, these wrongly obtained fins are still imported and exported on American soil, which serves to legitimize the unethical trade chiefly responsible for sharks’ declining populations. This bill will put an end to shark fin trading in the United States, helping to sustain healthy populations of sharks worldwide. Congressman McCaul: “I am proud to help introduce the Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act, which builds upon existing federal law and state initiatives to ban the sale, purchase, or possession of shark fins in the United States. The gruesome shark-finning practices are decimating populations and putting many species on the brink of extinction. This sound bipartisan legislation will promote conservation and responsible fishing practices that are good for the environment and our economy. “As the largest economy in the world, how we conduct our commerce has a profound impact on global markets and greatly influences others’ economic behavior. It is long since time we leverage our economic might against shark-finning and work to counter the larger issue of animal poaching and the illicit trafficking of animal parts.” Congressman Sablan: “The strong, bipartisan support for this legislation sends a clear message that we have to pay more attention to protecting the Earth’s oceans and the life within those oceans. Banning the sale of shark fins to help end this wasteful and cruel practice is important, but just a small step on the way to giving the oceans the full respect they must have in federal law. Ultimately, all life on Earth depends on the health of the oceans.” The following organizations spoke out in support of this legislation: Oceana: “Banning the U.S. shark fin trade has overwhelming support from the conservation, business and coastal recreation industries, and is a critical step for shark conservation. The Shark Fin Sales Elimination Act would improve enforcement of state fin bans and reinforce the status of the United States as a leader in shark conservation. This bipartisan legislation is a sensible, non-partisan way for the U.S. to lead in shark conservation. A national fin ban is something that both sides of the aisle can agree is good for our oceans, and good for the tourism jobs and businesses that depend on healthy shark populations. We commend Congressmen McCaul and Sablan for their bipartisan leadership in re-introducing this legislation that will set a new standard for shark conservation.” – Whitney Webber, Campaign Director for Oceana Humane Society: “As many as 73 million sharks are killed each year for their fins, a leading factor in the alarming decline of shark populations. Sharks are worth more alive than in a bowl of soup. And although the U.S. bans the cruel and wasteful practice of shark finning in U.S. waters, our shark fin economy spurs finning elsewhere. I applaud Congressmen McCaul and Sablan for introducing the Shark Fin Trade Elimination Act, which enables America to expand its leadership in shark protection.” – Sara Amundson, President of the Humane Society Legislative Fund ###
01.19.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), the Republican Leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the former Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement after President Trump announced his compromise plan to secure our border and reopen the government. Congressman McCaul: “Today’s announcement exhibits the President's leadership and willingness to negotiate a solution to secure our borders and end this government shutdown for the American people. I urge Congressional leaders of both parties to accept the President’s proposal and reopen the government. “As the President said, a full solution to end the security and humanitarian crisis at our southern border must include constructing physical barriers, providing the latest technology, authorizing more boots on the ground, and closing the legal loopholes in our current immigration system. “This shutdown has gone on long enough, has hurt patriotic public servants in the process, and only serves to undermine our credibility abroad. I remain dedicated to working with the President — and in a bipartisan fashion with all my colleagues in Congress — on a consistent basis to fix our broken immigration system and create a framework that works for all Americans. “It is time to come together; it is time to end this shutdown.” ###​
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the former Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement: Congressman McCaul: “Drugs smugglers, violent gangs like MS-13, human traffickers, and even potential terrorists are overwhelming our southern border and infecting our neighborhoods. Families with small children are making the dangerous trek across hundreds of miles and putting their lives at risk. There is no question that this is a longstanding national security and humanitarian crisis. “Unfortunately, Democrats in Congress are simply un-interested in securing our border and the country is suffering because of it. “In June, every single Democrat in the House voted against my bill to build a barrier, put more boots on the ground, provide advanced technology, close legal loopholes, and create a permanent fix to DACA. Passing this legislation would have prevented the situation we are in today. “This week, Democratic leaders walked in front of the cameras and said they want border security but refused to compromise at all. This is politics at its worst. “The President has shown good faith by dropping his funding demand from $25 billion to $5.7 billion and for accepting a steel barrier instead of a concrete wall. A similar barrier already exists along parts of the border. It was authorized by the Secure Fence Act in 2006 and supported by Chuck Schumer. This kind of flip flop is proof that the Democrats are just playing politics. Where is their counter offer? “Ending the partial shutdown without solving this problem will make the situation worse in the future. Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, and Chuck Schumer lecture others about putting politics aside and doing what’s best for the country. They need to put their dishonest talking points away and take their own advice. “The American people have demanded action and it’s time to deliver.” ###
01.02.2019	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement highlighting the Committee’s many legislative accomplishments in the last session of the 115th Congress. This includes legislation to secure America’s borders, protect against cyber-attacks, ensure that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) runs efficiently, and shield the homeland from both international and domestic threats. With over 113 Committee bills passed through the House and 35 of those bills becoming Public Law, Chairman McCaul finishes his six-year leadership role on a strong note. Chairman Michael McCaul: “It has been a great honor to serve this committee over the past six years. Throughout my tenure, I have seen the rise of ISIS, and fall of the Caliphate while working closely with U.S. law enforcement to tackle our most menacing threats to national security both at home and abroad. All the while, this committee has been a model for others in Congress to follow and I am proud that we put the security of our homeland above partisan politics. Together we passed the first ever, comprehensive reauthorization of the Department of Homeland Security, strengthened partnerships between federal, state, and local law enforcement, and enhanced cyber information sharing between the public and private sectors. “In the past year alone, we have elevated and operationalized DHS’s cyber structure, reauthorized TSA for the very first time, and passed important legislation to counter weapons of mass destruction and the rising threat of unmanned aerial systems. In addition, we enacted vital legislation to counter human trafficking and opioids. We have accomplished an extraordinary amount but there is still a lot of work to be done. We must stay one step ahead of our enemies. “I am very hopeful that the incoming Chairman, Bennie Thompson, and incoming Ranking Member, Mike Rogers, will continue to build on this Committee’s success in the next Congress.” Notable legislation from 2018 includes: H.R. 3359, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) Act, was signed into law on November 16, 2018 (P.L. 115-278), to streamline the current structure of the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) and re-designate it as the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency (CISA) to more effectively execute cybersecurity and critical infrastructure related authorities. H.R. 7213, Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction, was signed into law on December 21, 2018, to redesignate the Department of Homeland Security’s Domestic Nuclear Detection Office as the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office (CWMD Office). This Office will coordinate with other Federal efforts and develop a strategy and policy to plan for, detect, and protect against unauthorized chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear materials or devices in the United States. H.R. 6401, Preventing Emerging Threats Act, was signed into law as part of FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 on October 5, 2018 (H.R. 302, P.L. 115–254), to provide the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) with the authorities they need to protect communities and buildings from security risks posed by unmanned aerial systems (UAS), or more commonly referred to as a drone. H.R. 4708, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Blue Campaign Authorization Act, was signed into law on February 14, 2018 (P.L. 115-125), to help protect victims of human trafficking by providing the right tools to federal, state, and local law enforcement, as well as private sector organizations to increase awareness and better defend against this heinous threat by requiring the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue Department-wide guidance and develop training programs as part of the Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign. H.R. 2142, International Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology (INTERDICT) Act, was signed into law on January 10, 2018 (P.L. 115-112), to provide U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) the necessary tools, such as hi-tech chemical screening devices, to help detect and interdict fentanyl and other illicit synthetic opioids. H.R. 4760, Securing America’s Future Act, was introduced on January 10, 2018, to bolster the enforcement of existing immigration law, make important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secure the border, and provide a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. H.R. 6439, Biometric Identification Transnational Migration Alert Program (BITMAP) Authorization Act, passed the House on September 4, 2018, to establish in the Department of Homeland Security the Biometric Identification Transnational Migration Alert Program (BITMAP) to help prevent potential terrorists and dangerous criminals from entering our country. NOTE: A full list of committee bills from this Congress can be found here.
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement following President Trump’s recent announcement on U.S. forces in Syria: Congressman McCaul: “I have been very supportive of President Trump’s actions over the last two years to crush the so-called Caliphate in Iraq and Syria. We have retaken almost all of the territory once controlled by ISIS and put them on the run. However, I am concerned by today’s reports that America has started an immediate withdrawal of all of our troops, as well as our diplomats who are charged with helping those impacted by ISIS to rebuild. “Such a move is premature and could empower ISIS to regroup and rebuild, inspire Assad to slaughter scores of innocent Syrians, strengthen Russia in the region, and embolden Iran and its Shia proxies to fill the void we’ve left behind. By removing our presence in Syria, we put our ally Israel in a very dangerous situation with having to deal with a growing Iranian military presence on its border. “History has taught us that when we completely disengage from a hostile area, it emboldens our enemies to continue their belligerent actions. I am hopeful that President Trump and his national security team can explain how this immediate withdrawal is in America’s best interest.” ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on the passage of the 2018 Farm Bill: Congressman McCaul: “Today, I am proud to join my colleagues in passing the 2018 Farm Bill. This farm bill delivers the much-needed resources and support for our farmers who provide our nation with safe, abundant, and affordable food. With net farm income dropping nearly 50% over the past 5 years, we are delivering the vital stability America’s farmers and ranchers desperately need. Our farmers work day in and day out to put food on the table for the American people, and Congress stands beside them.” Below are a few highlights of the bill: Maintains the Farm Safety net by reauthorizing and improving the Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage through 2023 Provides support for America’s dairy farmers through the Dairy Margin Coverage Sustains strong Livestock Disaster Programs Protects crop insurance for America’s farmers whose livelihoods are often threatened by natural disasters Maintains Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) and improves program integrity Improves voluntary incentive-based conservation programs such as the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP) and the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) Provides over a $600 million increase in funding for research, extension, and education projects to keep America a leader in the agriculture industry Aids rural communities with rural development by enhancing broadband service and combatting the opioid epidemic ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX), Ed Royce (R-CA), Henry Cuellar (D-TX) and Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) introduced a bipartisan resolution urging China to maintain its ban on rhinoceros and tiger parts. This resolution also highlights the need to reduce demand in Asian markets, work with our global partners to combat transnational criminal organizations, condemn the farming of rhinoceros and tigers, and support ongoing engagement by U.S. government agencies to prevent poaching and wildlife trafficking. Congressman McCaul: “China’s consideration of allowing the sale of rhino horns and tiger bones would undeniably increase the $20 billion in annual illegal profits already made by wildlife trafficking. Worst of all, these profits are often reaped by transnational criminal organizations and foreign terrorist groups to fund their own malevolent ambitions. This resolution strongly encourages China to maintain a permanent prohibition on the sale of rhino and tiger parts, while continuing to support ongoing efforts at the Department of State and other agencies to combat poaching and international trafficking.” Congressman Royce: “Wildlife trafficking isn’t just a threat to rhinos, cheetahs and more, it’s a threat to U.S. national security. As one of the most lucrative criminal activities worldwide, wildlife trafficking generates revenues in the billions each year – funding terrorists and rebel groups. And China, home to the largest market in illegal wildlife products, has long been the biggest source of the problem. Now is not the time to allow loopholes that only serve traffickers; now is the time to demand China makes good on promises to help stop poaching. I applaud Rep. McCaul for his work on this legislation as we keep conservation and anti-poaching initiatives a priority in Congress.” Congressman Cuellar: “It is crucial that China maintain a permanent ban on the sale of rhinoceros and tiger parts. It is unacceptable that each year, these sales generate billions of dollars in illegal profits at the expense of these endangered species. This resolution sends a strong message that the preservation of wildlife populations trumps the worth of their individual parts. I will continue to offer my support on this issue, so that we are able to effectively combat wildlife trafficking, reduce demand in Asian markets, and encourage ongoing cooperation with the Department of State. I thank Congressman Michael McCaul and for his continued bipartisan effort on this matter.” Congressman Fortenberry, Co-Chair of the International Conservation Caucus: “Good stewardship can help people and threatened species thrive. China made an important first step to halt the exploitation of rhinos and tigers. This resolution reminds them of their promise.” Background Today, wildlife trafficking is one of the world’s largest transnational crimes with an estimated $20 billion in illegal profits reaped a year. According to traditional Chinese beliefs, rhinoceros and tiger byproducts are thought to have medicinal and healing properties. These beliefs have created a high demand in Chinese markets, which has only encouraged poaching the animals in both Africa and Asia where illicit trade runs rampant. Transnational criminal organizations and terrorist groups often profit from this poaching and also engage in the trafficking of arms, drugs, and people. Rhinoceros and tigers face extinction and the high demand for their body parts further risks their presence on earth. In 1993, China’s State Council recognized the endangered status of both rhinoceros and tigers due to poaching, and issued a ban involving the sale, purchase, use, and import of rhinoceros horn, tiger bones, and other body parts. In October 2018, China signaled it would allow exceptions to this ban for medical and scientific research. In November 2018, China postponed lifting the ban on rhinoceros horn and tiger bone for medical and scientific research due to international pressure, particularly by conservation groups. The resolution is endorsed by: The World Wildlife Fund: “World Wildlife Fund (WWF) commends Rep. McCaul (R-Tex.) and his bipartisan cosponsors for introducing this resolution, which calls on China to maintain its ban on trade in rhino and tiger parts and supports ongoing efforts to save these species in the wild. Wildlife trafficking is now a multibillion-dollar crime that is devastating populations of these and other species around the globe. Countries need to be doing all they can to shut down this illicit trade, not rolling back existing protections. By passing this resolution, Congress can send a strong signal and reaffirm U.S. leadership on this issue.” Animal Welfare Institute: “We are grateful to Rep. McCaul for seeking to put the House on record calling upon China to retain its ban on the trade in rhino and tiger parts. There has been a great outpouring of public opposition to loosening this ban and it is vital that the US government recognize its importance and encourage China to maintain it.” Humane Society Legislative Fund: "China must fully reinstate the 1993 ban on the sale, import and export of rhino horn and tiger bone to prevent further loss of rhinos and tigers to poaching and trafficking. As a leading consumer of these parts, China must not erode global efforts to save these species from extinction. We applaud Rep. McCaul and his cosponsors for taking the first step toward a U.S. response to this regrettable development in China." ###
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) issued the following statement on the passing of President George H. W. Bush: Congressman McCaul: “There are few people who have ever personified the word 'patriot' better than George H. W. Bush. As a naval aviator, Texas congressman, Envoy to China, UN Ambassador, CIA Director, Vice President, and ultimately President of the United States, George Bush dedicated his life to the service of his fellow citizens. “As a member of the Greatest Generation, he understood that the United States must be a role model for other nations to follow and a proud, but humble voice for freedom and peace around the world. Throughout a presidency that saw many international challenges, he guided our country with a steady hand through the end of the Cold War and led with unwavering resolve during Operation Desert Storm. “He was a man of great character, integrity, and humility, who taught us to be a better version of ourselves. Most of all, he was man who always displayed his boundless love for his family. “I will never forget his endorsement during my first campaign for office and I will always treasure the faith he placed in me. He was also an avid supporter of MD Anderson and their initiatives to end childhood cancer, following the heartbreaking loss of his three-year old daughter Robin from Leukemia. He ended up serving as the Chairman of the Board of Visitors, which culminated a close relationship that began in 1977, lasted throughout his entire life, and helped to raise millions of dollars for groundbreaking research. “George Herbert Walker Bush left this earth a better place than when he came to it. And he leaves behind a very grateful nation. I am comforted by my belief that he is once again reunited with his wife Barbara and their daughter Robin. “Rest in peace, Mr. President.” ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) issued the following statement after being selected by the House Republican Conference to serve as Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee for the 116th Congress: Congressman McCaul: “I am honored to be selected as the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC). I would like to thank my good friend, Ed Royce, for his leadership as Chairman over the past six years. I’d also like recognize my fellow candidates, Congressmen Joe Wilson and Ted Yoho, for all of their hard work on behalf of the American people. “In this new role, working alongside incoming-Chairman Eliot Engel, it will be my mission to partner with Secretary Pompeo and my fellow colleagues to advance a foreign policy that promotes American leadership on the world stage. This is a humbling opportunity and I look forward to hitting the ground running on day one.” ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ted Poe (R-TX), Adam Smith (D-WA), and Bill Keating (D-MA) today applauded the House passage of their bipartisan bill, the Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act. This legislation would improve U.S. engagement in fragile and unstable countries to reduce violence and address the conditions that create safe havens for terrorists, criminal networks, and war lords. “Today, the House took an important step to reduce worldwide violence and improve international stability. Violence and brutal conflict costs the global economy over $14 trillion a year and creates environments where large-scale international responses are needed to stop the struggle and deliver humanitarian aid. This legislation directs USAID, the State Department, and the Defense Department to work with other relevant agencies in crafting an integrated strategy in a number of these ‘fragile states.’ The strategy would focus on preventing the total breakdown of government, while also denying terrorist groups the unstable, fertile territory from which they recruit,” said Rep. McCaul, Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security. “By proactively prioritizing the necessary resources and with our federal departments working in unison, we will be better positioned to eliminate terrorist safe havens, stimulate global stability, and avoid large-scale international interventions.” “Around the world, levels of violence are at a 25-year high, driving massive instability. This is global security threat, as fragile, unstable states are breeding grounds for criminals and terrorists,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the House floor. “Over the years, we have learned a lot about what works to stabilize conflicts and prevent violence from breaking out. We need to update our government policies to implement those lessons. This bill does just that, by establishing an initiative to reduce fragility and violence that will align American policy and programs with best practices.” “Around the globe today, nations plagued by conflict and violence pose serious challenges for our interests abroad and security at home. Terrorists and rogue regimes have long exploited fragile states to operate beyond the rule of law and promote extremism. Meanwhile, the various departments and agencies of the U.S. government charged with conducting our foreign policy have respond to these challenges with ad hoc fixes that avoid addressing underlying causes of instability and lack interagency coordination and proper Congressional oversight. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act will fix these mistakes by requiring coordinated long-term strategies presented to Congress that target the core cause of violence and instability in trouble nations around the world. Through a smarter, planned process, our diplomats, military, and USAID staff can use our foreign aid dollars more effectively and efficiently, instead of endless assistance programs that only apply triage to persistent conflicts. I thank Ranking Member Engel, Rep. Smith, and Rep. McCaul for their hard work on this important bill.” said Rep. Poe, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. “Instability across the world continues to lead to the displacement of millions of people. In response to the unprecedented refugee crisis caused by the rise in conflict, famine and disease, the U.S. must be a leader in addressing the root causes of violence and fragility. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act is a significant step in bringing together defense, diplomatic, and development stakeholders to better tackle these complex challenges,” said Rep. Smith, Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services. “As a senior Member of the Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security Committees, it could not be clearer to me that to be safer here at home, we need to address the root causes of fragility that leave communities around the world vulnerable to conflict and extremism. That’s exactly what this bill does. It requires an interagency strategy and a pilot program so that our resources are not only better coordinated to have a greater impact, but so that we also learn as much as possible about how to best combat this problem,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Co-Chair of the Congressional Counterterrorism Caucus. “We have lost so many lives and expended so much on conflicts that don’t seem to ever get resolved. Addressing fragility brings us closer to the root causes of these conflicts and we owe it to our servicemen and women, to members of our foreign service, and to the American people to do that. Time and again, our research has shown that focusing on fragility will be a much more effective way of creating more sustainable peace and security around the world.” Background Violence and violent conflict have become the leading causes of displacement worldwide, resulting in an unprecedented 68.5 million forcibly displaced people, while preventable violence kills at least 1.4 million people annually. Containing violence costs, the global economy $14.7 trillion a year (12.4% of world GDP). US National Security Strategies over the past 15 years affirm that America has a national security interest in better preventing and mitigating violence, violent conflict, and fragility. Lessons learned over the past 20 years show that doing so will require more clearly defined goals, strategies, and interagency coordination. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act charges the State Department, Defense Department, and USAID with designating at least 6 priority countries or regions and implementing 10-year plans for addressing violence and fragility in those areas. The bill requires these departments and agencies to apply lessons learned and robust standards for measuring effectiveness and adapting programs based on results. The legislation is endorsed by: Alliance for Peacebuilding, American Friends Service Committee, Bread for the World, CARE, Carl Wilkens Fellows, Center for Civilians in Conflict (CIVIC), Center on Conscience & War, Charity & Security Network, Chemonics, Church of the Brethren Office of Public Witness, Conciliation Resources, Congregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good Shepherd US Provinces, Cure Violence, Educators’ Institute for Human Rights, Foreign Policy 4 America, Franciscan Action Network, Friends Committee on National Legislation (FCNL), Future Without Violence, Global Communities, Global Water 2020, Humanity United Action, i-ACT, In Defense of Christians, Institute for Multi-Track Diplomacy, InterAction, International Alert, International Civil Society Action Network, International Crisis Group (ICG), International Rescue Committee, Jewish World Watch, Karuna Center for Peacebuilding, Mercy Corps, National Advocacy Center of the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, National Latino Evangelical Coalition, Never Again Coalition, Nuru International, Pax Christi International, Pax Christi USA, Peace Direct, PRBB Foundation, Saferworld, Search for Common Ground, STAND, Stop Genocide Now, United Church of Christ, Women for Afghan Women, World Relief, and World Vision. ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Congressman David Schweikert (AZ-06), member of the Ways and Means Committee and the Joint Economic Committee, today introduced the Championing American Businesses Through Diplomacy Act of 2018. This bill prioritizes economic and commercial diplomacy at the Department of State and U.S. missions throughout the world, allowing U.S. businesses better access to markets abroad. Congressman McCaul: “With the emergence of China’s Belt and Road Initiative and their coercive lending practices, we must make it easier for our businesses to have access to foreign markets. The enactment of the BUILD Act earlier this year was an important first step in leveraging the weight of the federal government behind this problem, but more can be done. Our diplomatic personnel on the ground in these countries and have unique insights on their political and economic complexities. We must do more to use this information to help the private-sector do business abroad and support U.S. foreign policy in upholding global stability.” Congressman Schweikert: “I am very pleased to be an original co-sponsor of this legislation which helps to ensure American businesses succeed abroad. While diplomatic relationships change over time, we must support U.S. businesses in areas that otherwise would not be prioritized.” The Championing American Businesses Through Diplomacy Act of 2018 would make the following changes to support economic and commercial diplomacy: Authorizes in statute the Assistant Secretary for Economic and Business Affairs, setting in statute their responsibilities to promote and support U.S. economic and commercial diplomacy; Streamlines and combines two commercial diplomacy guides – the Investment Climate Statement and the Country Commercial Guide, respectfully produced by the Department of State and Department of Commerce – into one annual guide for each country focused on critical information that businesses rely upon when assessing whether to do business in a particular country; Requires Ambassadors and their Embassies to submit a report to the Department of State of the specific actions they took in the year prior of how they are aided businesses achieve market access, while assessing levels of private-sector commercial competition from other strategic competitor nation-states; Requires the Secretary to report to Congress general commercial diplomacy trends, as well as assessments of commercial activity in strategic areas from competing nation-states that threatens U.S. national security; and Places further emphasis on training our diplomats on matters of commercial diplomacy. ###
11.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced his intent to pursue the Ranking Member position on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Congressman McCaul: “I have dedicated my professional life to national security and have proudly served on the Foreign Affairs Committee since first coming to Congress. Confronting the many foreign policy challenges facing our country will require strong and steady leadership. I have run a productive and results oriented security committee and believe that I am the right person to be Ranking Member. In this position, I will communicate a clear vision that projects American leadership on the world stage. “We need a battle-tested leader who will hit the ground running and I believe that I am the best fit for the job.”
11.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today released November's Terror Threat Snapshot, a monthly assessment of the Committee’s continuing effort to highlight the growing threat America, the West, and the world face from ISIS and other Islamist terrorists.Key Points: Five senior members of the Taliban, Mohammad Fazl, Mohammed Nabi, Khairullah Khairkhwa, Abdul Haq Wasiq, and Noorullah Noori have all been appointed as members of the terrorist organization’s political office in Qatar. The men, collectively known as the Taliban Five, are former inmates of the American prison at Guantanamo Bay. The men were released as part of an exchange deal to ensure the release of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl in 2014. October 23, 2018: Dias Muratovich Kadyrbayev, 24, a citizen of Kazakhstan, who in June 2015 was convicted of conspiracy to obstruct justice and disposing of incriminatory items from Dzhokar Tsarnaev’s room, was deported to his native Kazakhstan. Kadyrbayev was sentenced to six years in prison in 2015, but was transferred to ICE custody in August 2018. His actions are considered aggravated felonies under the Immigration and Nationality Act. The Pakistani government has released Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, cofounder of the Afghan Taliban. Arrested in 2010, Baradar was the second most senior member of the Taliban. The release appears to have been a goodwill gesture to bring the Taliban, the Afghan government, and the U.S., as talks have been underway in Qatar. October 31, 2018: Ahmad Suhad Ahmad, 30, an Iraqi refugee now U.S. citizen living in Tuscon, Arizona, has been charged with distributing instructions on how to make explosives. Ahmad told an undercover informant that he had learned how to make improvised explosives during the war in Iraq. He traveled to Las Vegas to demonstrate to the undercover informant how to construct the device before he was arrested. The complete November Terror Threat Snapshot is available, here. View the Committee’s interactive Terror Threat Snapshot, here. # # #
10.26.2018	Washington, D.C. - House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the arrest of a suspect charged with sending 13 improvised explosive devices (IED) to prominent public figures: Chairman McCaul: “I strongly condemn the series of bombs meant to terrorize and intimidate political speech of prominent public figures. This deranged individual does not represent the values of the United States. “Free speech is the cornerstone of the American experiment in self-government and is enshrined in our Constitution as the first protection guaranteed to our citizens. While free speech is a right, we also have a moral responsibility to use that speech in a thoughtful and civil way. It is incumbent upon all Americans — regardless of political party — to raise the quality of our debates. “As a former federal prosecutor, I have always had the utmost respect and appreciation for the dedicated men and women at the Department of Justice, FBI, DHS, and other law enforcement officers across this country. I want to thank them for their tireless work and applaud their swift action that led to this arrest today.” ###
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the confirmation of Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh to the U.S. Supreme Court. Congressman McCaul: “I applaud the Senate's confirmation today of Justice Kavanaugh despite the divisive political tactics from Senate Democrats. Tactics which thrusted a woman into the political spotlight expressly against her will, and attempted to destroy a qualified defender of our constitution. I am deeply disappointed with the political nature of this process and pray we can come together again as a country.” ###
10.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released a follow-up report entitled, Terror Gone Viral 2.0, to capture the scope of ISIS’ activities by providing a high-level examination of ISIS-linked plots and attacks targeting Western countries, including the United States. Over the past two years, ISIS and its adherents have been linked to 142 incidents with the number of ISIS-inspired attacks increasing to 63 percent since the Committee’s initial report in 2016. Cumulatively, over the 2014 to 2018 period, ISIS has been linked to a total of 243 incidences, averaging five per month. Chairman McCaul: “Thanks to President Trump’s steadfast leadership, the United States and our allies have courageously fought terrorists on the battlefield and dismantled ISIS’ self-declared caliphate. Yet the terror group’s enduring ability to inspire, recruit, radicalize and plot online still remains a very real threat. Ultimately, victory requires a long-term, sustained commitment to countering its ‘viral’ capabilities, while also taking the fight to them wherever they are.” The report makes a number of key findings, including: ISIS and its adherents have been linked to 142 incidents—arrests, plots and attacks —targeting Westerners or the West over the last two years. Cumulatively, over the 2014 to 2018 period covered by the Terror Gone Viral reports, ISIS has been linked to 243 incidences, averaging five terrorist incidents per month Over the last two years, the number of ISIS-inspired attacks has gone-up to 63 percent 22 teenagers or younger who were linked to ISIS incidents 14 ISIS-connected plots and attacks reviewed by the Committee involving refugee and asylum seekers The 2018 report is available, here. The 2016 report is available, here.
10.04.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today released October's Terror Threat Snapshot, a monthly assessment of the Committee’s continuing effort to highlight the growing threat America, the West, and the world face from ISIS and other Islamist terrorists. Key Points: September 28, 2018: Federal prosecutors announced that they will be seeking the death penalty for Sayfullo Saipov, who conducted the October 31, 2017 vehicle attack on a bike path in New York City that left eight dead. September 28, 2018: Dutch police arrested seven individuals for plotting a “large scale event” in the Netherlands. They seized firearms, including AK-47s, small arms, grenades, completed bombs, and bomb-making materials. Three members of the group had previously been convicted of attempting to travel to join ISIS. The group was targeting two locations with the intent of maximizing the number of casualties. The U.S. Department of the Treasury designated two individuals as financiers of ISIS. Emraan Ali, a Syrian-based, dual U.S. and Trinidadian national, has been funneling money from Trinidad and Tobago to Syria to support the terrorist organization. Eddie Aleong, also a Trinidadian national, assisted in, sponsored, and provided financial support to ISIS. The U.S. Department of State has designated Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin (JNIM) as a Foreign Terrorist Organization. The Al Qaeda-affiliated group also was designated as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist. JNIM is the self-described official Al Qaeda branch in Mali, and the designations will help isolate the group and cut off funding for their operations. British officials have revealed that members of ISIS-Khorasan are in contact with U.K.-based terrorist cells. U.K. Defense Secretary Gavin Williamson stated that the Afghanistan-based arm of ISIS posed a threat to not just the U.K., but also continental Europe. The complete October Terror Threat Snapshot is available, here. View the Committee’s interactive Terror Threat Snapshot, here.
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced H.R. 6997, the Repatriation Assistance Act. Specifically, this legislation gives the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) the authority to provide financial support to foreign governments so they can return individuals from outside the Western Hemisphere to their home country who pose a national security threat to the United States. Congressman McCaul: “Known or Suspected Terrorists, wanted criminals, and other bad actors are exploiting illicit pathways throughout our hemisphere and racing towards our border. These individuals pose a serious threat to our national security and to the security of the countries they travel through. “By empowering DHS with this authority, our foreign partners will be able to better identify, detain, and transport these dangerous individuals back to their country of origin. This legislation will extend our borders and increase our homeland security by addressing the threats well before they reach U.S. soil.” ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the United States-Mexico-Canada trade agreement. Congressman McCaul: “I applaud the Trump administration for bringing our close ally Canada into the fold to reach a trilateral agreement that expands market access for our exporters to further grow our economy. There is no doubt that we need improved trade agreements for the 21st century to promote the best interests of America’s small businesses, farmers, and workers. Now, it goes to Congress to approve and ratify this agreement. I look forward to reviewing the agreement in full so we can ensure robust trade for Texas and the country.” ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the House passage of the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense, Health, and Education funding bill. This Congress has now passed the most funding bills on time in 22 years. The Senate passed this bill last week by a vote of 93 to 7 and it will now head to the President’s desk for his signature. Congressman McCaul: “It is our solemn duty to keep Americans safe and support our troops. That is why I proudly supported today’s bill that continues to prioritize Americans’ health and safety, rebuilds our armed forces, restores our military readiness, and supports our troops and their families. In addition to funding these important priorities for our constituents, we are finally getting back on track by returning to regular order with the passage of this bill. In fact, this is the first time in a decade Congress has provided the funding our Department of Defense needs without the uncertainty of short-term funding. I urge the president to swiftly sign this bill into law so we can continue to provide the American people with the security they deserve.” Below are some of the specifics included in H.R. 6157: Prioritizing Health and Safety Fully funds my Childhood Cancer STAR Act, the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill signed into law. Increases funding by $2 billion to support critical research into cancer, Alzheimer’s disease, and opioids. Directs historic levels of funding to fight and end the opioid abuse epidemic. Improves school safety by investing over $1.5 billion in critical programs and targeting nationwide program to increase access to mental health providers, and increase students' safety and well-being in schools. Rebuilding and Restoring our Military This is the first time in 10 years that the Department of Defense has not relied on the inconsistencies of continuing resolutions for funding. This provides the Pentagon with much-needed stability and predictability after years of short-term funding. $606.5 billion to boost base funding for our military, which is $17 billion above current funding levels. $243 billion to increase funding for military readiness programs to ensure our troops are prepared for their missions. $96 billion to prepare and modernize our Armed Forces for the future of warfare, like the new Army Futures Command Center headquartered in Austin, TX. Supporting Our Troops and Military Families The largest pay raise in nine years. $300 million to help veterans transition back into the workforce. Cares for our troops, military families, and retirees by including $34 billion for the Defense Health Program. This includes funding above the request for cancer research, traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and sexual assault prevention and response. Boosts troop end strength by providing $143.2 billion for military personnel and pay – supporting 1,338,100 active-duty troops and 817,700 Guard and Reserve troops. ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – In a letter sent last month, Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen reiterated the department’s need for new legal authorities to combat the growing threat from drones and other Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) to ensure for a robust and comprehensive security framework. Today the House approved an amended version of H.R. 6401, the Preventing Emerging Threats Act of 2018, as part of the five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). This critical legislation – sponsored by Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, and Congressman Steve Chabot, Chairman of Small Business and senior member of Judiciary Committee – provides the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) with the necessary authorities to protect their facilities and operations from security risks posed by drones and other UAS. The Preventing Emerging Threats Act is a forward-looking bill that allows our nation to stay ahead of the dynamic threats to our homeland by providing DHS and DOJ the authority to act quickly when a drone poses a security risk to high-valued, high-profile events or facilities while also limiting the geographic area where the drone’s data may be collected and maintained. Chairman McCaul: “The House took a critical step today in protecting our homeland from the growing threat posed by drones. Though drones are used by everyday Americans for a variety of purposes – from capturing wedding ceremonies to monitoring crop growth, to name a few – we have also seen drones used by criminals to smuggle drugs across our borders or surveil law enforcement and we’ve seen drones used overseas by terrorist groups, like ISIS, to carry out attacks. This legislation strikes the right balance by providing DHS and DOJ with specific, credible authorities to take down a threatening drone while also protecting a lawful drone user’s privacy by limiting the geographic area where data may be collected and the circumstances of data maintained. It is vital that our laws keep pace with the evolving tactics used by our enemies to attack our homeland and I applaud my colleagues for supporting this important national security legislation. I also want to extend a special thanks to Chairmen Chabot and Shuster for working with me closely on this needed legislation. I also want to thank Rep. Vicky Hartzler for her efforts to better secure America's skies.” Chairman Chabot: “The simple truth is, drones have a vast array of capabilities and they should be monitored accordingly. This bipartisan legislation delivers the accountability needed for this quickly emerging technology. Most importantly, this legislationidentifies and limits the nefarious threats posed by Unmanned Aerial Systems. This language will better protect American’s from terrorist groups like ISIS that aim to use drones in attacks against soft targets within our own borders. I applaud my colleagues for supporting this common-sense legislation that reigns in unmanned vehicles and keeps our communities, big and small, safe.”Background on Preventing Emerging Threats Act (Title VI, Division H): Grants the DHS and DOJ the ability to address threats posed by unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) to large-scale events and critical government facilities utilizing counter UAS technology. Allows the Departments to react, in real-time, to stop acts of terror and threats of violence. Protects privacy by strictly limiting law enforcement monitoring capabilities to unmanned aircraft. Provides consistent and clear public notification about no-fly areas to the public by focusing counter-UAS capabilities on high value or high profile targets. Allows DHS and DOJ to determine the best technology for its needs at a specific location. Allows DHS and DOJ to work with the FAA to determine the proper type of technology to use to protect a target based on the circumstances. Protects privacy by limiting the authorities to specific times and places while strictly limiting law enforcement monitoring capabilities to unmanned aircraft. Limits when and how Federal law enforcement can share data obtained while hunting for illegal drones. Legislative text of FAA Reauthorization is available, here. Read McCaul-Chabot’s opinion piece on the Preventing Emerging Threats Act of 2018, here.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, delivered opening remarks at the Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee hearing titled, “Hidden in Plain Sight: Understanding Federal Efforts to Stop Human Trafficking.” The purpose of this hearing was to assess Federal efforts to combat human trafficking in the United States. The subcommittee explored how the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and its interagency task force partners are involved in investigating, prosecuting, and educating law enforcement officers on human trafficking operations, and ways to enhance the government’s ability to combat this issue. You can click here to watch Chairman McCaul’s opening remarks. Below are McCaul’s remarks as prepared: Human trafficking is a despicable multi-billion-dollar industry. It enslaves an estimated 25 million people worldwide, including more than 300,000 people in my home state of Texas - 80,000 of whom are minors. Many of these victims are sexually exploited or forced into slave labor. To some Americans, trafficking may seem like an industry that only exists in poverty-stricken dictatorships or other poor parts of the world. Sadly, that is not the case. Trafficking is an epidemic and it grows by the day. The Polaris Project reports that 1 in 20 men in the US have purchased sex online. Traffickers are targeting our schools and preying on our kids through social media and apps on their phones. This evil industry is a global enterprise and we must do more to fight it. I believe, like every issue, it starts with awareness. As a father of five, I continue to be personally struck by the horrifying stories of trafficking victims. Last month I visited Hope Rising, a rehabilitation program in Texas that matches trafficking victims with a foster family while they complete recovery therapy. It was a reminder that we need a proactive, not a reactive approach to end this kind of exploitation. That is why I created the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force when I was Deputy Attorney General for criminal justice in Texas under then state Attorney General, John Cornyn. This led to the prosecution of hundreds of online child predators. I have also worked closely with the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC), which serves as the central source in the United States for information of child victims depicted in sexually exploitative images and videos. And earlier this year, I stood in the Oval Office and watched President Trump sign the Blue Campaign Authorization Act into law. This was bipartisan legislation I introduced that provides resources to DHS to help deter, detect, and mitigate instances of human trafficking around the United States. It also protects victims and helps raise public awareness of human trafficking threats throughout our communities. While I am proud of what we have accomplished, there is more work to be done. And I am eager to continue this fight with anyone who wants to stop human trafficking. Today’s hearing will give us a chance to discuss innovative ways to continue our efforts. I’d like to thank the witnesses for being here today. Your hard work and expertise will help us put the trafficking industry out of business once and for all. ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today the House passed a bipartisan five-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). This critical legislation provides the FAA with the long-term funding to strengthen the overall safety and security of our transportation systems. The bill includes the first ever reauthorization of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). It comprehensively updates TSA’s mission and strategic planning, and ensures TSA has the right authorities to address today’s threats. Twenty-five bipartisan House Homeland Security bills were also included in the legislation, which will ensure the United States continues to lead in aviation security by enhancing screening oversees at Last Point of Departure (LPD) airports, strengthening risk-based security screening here at home, deploying cutting edge technology more quickly while improving the testing and evaluation process, and more. Chairman McCaul: “Better protecting Americans requires a holistic approach to security that is both risk-based and intelligence-driven. In this high threat environment facing airports and commercial aviation, terrorists continue to target the aviation sector, as we saw in Istanbul, Brussels, and the Sinai Peninsula. The measure passed by the House today will play a crucial role in protecting hundreds of millions of air travelers in the United States and those flying home from abroad. “Additionally, this bill authorizes the piloting, testing, and prioritization of Computed Tomography (CT) technology to enhance our ability to detect firearms, explosives, and other dangerous items. It also improves aviation security by mandating tougher vetting of airport employees to stop insider threats and enhancing airport access controls. I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for recognizing the dynamic threats to our aviation and transportation systems, and for passing this vital national security legislation.” Reforms and Reauthorizes the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Provides top line authorization levels for TSA for three years. Establishes a five-year term for the TSA Administrator to help maintain leadership stability and bridge administration transitions. Builds domestic capacity to test and certify explosive detection dogs, authorizing as many as 200 additional canine teams for surface transportation. Leverages the private sector to make PreCheck enrollment easier for passengers and directs TSA to meet specific targets for expanding enrollment. Directs TSA to build aviation security capacity around the world while establishing and disseminating best practices to raise the global aviation security baseline at overseas airports with direct flights to the United States Requires TSA to make real-time information on wait times via technology at each airport security checkpoint available to the public online and in airport terminals. Utilizes third-party testing and evaluation of security screening equipment and recognizes international testing to enable faster deployment of the most effective technologies. Mandates agency-wide efficiency review to examine how to eliminate duplicative programs and senior executive positions. Authorizes piloting, testing, and prioritization of Computed Tomography technology to mitigate current threats to transportation. Mitigates insider threats to transportation security by improving the vetting of aviation employees and enhancing airport access controls. Sets a risk-based security model for surface transportation facilities and stipulates that TSA budget submissions must clearly indicate which resources will be used for surface transportation security and which will be dedicated to aviation. Authorizes Amtrak police and the Amtrak Board of Directors to request the use of computerized vetting systems for passenger rail. Puts in motion development of best practices to prevent vehicle-based attacks. Mandates that Coast Guard and TSA coordinate security plans and operations to eliminate any jurisdictional security gaps. Creates reporting and dissemination standards for cyber incidents involving maritime ports. Legislative text is available here. View the full list of House Homeland Security bills included in the FAA package here.
09.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – The House passed four more bipartisan House Homeland Security Committee bills to better secure our homeland, including protecting our critical infrastructure against drones, reporting security vulnerabilities of DHS information systems, establishing Border Tunnel Task Forces, and equipping Customs and Border Protection (CBP) with better communication devices. Chairman McCaul: “This Congress, the Homeland Security Committee has directly confronted the most pressing national security threats to the United States with bipartisan, legislative action. The House has now passed 109 Committee bills aimed at bolstering our efforts to secure and defend our borders, protect our digital networks from cyber intruders, improve information sharing and support America’s first responders, and fight terror at home and abroad. “I applaud the House for passing four more important bipartisan pieces of legislation to better secure our homeland. These bills will strengthen the security of DHS information systems by creating a vulnerability disclosure program, enhance DHS’ ability to detect tunnels across our borders and identify criminal networks, support interoperability by providing secure radio communication devices for CBP officers and Border Patrol agents, and address the evolving threat from drones and other aerial systems. I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for recognizing the dynamic threats facing our country and supporting these bipartisan bills.” Legislation passed legislation includes:H.R. 6735, Public-Private Cybersecurity Cooperation Act, introduced by Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-CA). Watch Chairman McCaul’s floor remarks on H.R. 6735, here. H.R. 6740, Border Tunnel Task Force Act, introduced by Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX). Watch Chairman McCaul’s floor remarks on H.R. 6740, here. H.R. 6742, Secure Border Communications Act, introduced by Rep. Brian Mast (R-FL). Watch Chairman McCaul’s floor remarks on H.R. 6742, here. H.R. 6620, Protecting Critical Infrastructure Against Drones and Emerging Threats Act, introduced by Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-LA). Watch Chairman McCaul’s floor remarks on H.R. 6620, here. NOTE: The House has now passed 109 House Homeland Security Committee bills this Congress.
09.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the Administration's National Cyber Strategy.Chairman McCaul: “As Americans have become more reliant on computer networks, everyone is now a potential victim of hacking by cybercriminals, nation states, and others. That is why over the course of my Chairmanship, I have made strengthening the DHS’ cybersecurity mission and capabilities one the Committee’s top priorities. “I commend the Administration for taking yet another step to protect the cybersecurity of our nation. This strategy will help better combat malicious cyber acts from foreign adversaries like Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea. I have consistently said we must call out our enemies, send a strong message that we will respond when attacked, and ensure there are real consequences if we are.” View the National Cyber Strategy here. ###
09.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, joined Admiral William McRaven at the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin for a conversation on the national security dimensions of global food insecurity. Congressman McCaul: “I’d like to thank the LBJ School for inviting me to speak on this important issue pertaining to our national security with a hero and friend: Admiral McRaven. Poverty is a vicious cycle. It fosters conflict which further perpetuates the same poverty. In fact, if the U.S. does not do more to help, more than two-thirds of the world’s poor could be living in fragile states by 2030. The military and State Department must be constantly aware of this issue and work together with USAID and our private partners to tackle this world wide issue. Look, this is a complicated issue, but if we work to understand and fight all facets of the issue, we will secure better outcomes for global stability and our own national security.” You can click here to view the entire discussion, moderated by Chris Tomlinson of the Houston Chronicle.
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, joined Sandra Smith on America’s Newsroom to discuss the President’s decision to declassify the FISA documents involving Carter Page and the latest developments in Syria. McCaul on President Trump’s recent decision to declassify FISA documents: “I used to work at the Justice Department and as a federal prosecutor I worked on FISA. It would be a very extraordinary thing to do [to declassify], but I do believe these are extraordinary circumstances. When the president orders this it goes through the intelligence community to protect our sources and our national security before declassifying the documents and releasing them publicly.” McCaul on the men and women of the intelligence community: “I think once this is cleaned up, the American people will know there were only a few bad apples at the top. Rank and file members of the FBI and the intelligence community are good patriots working for the federal government to protect our nation. I work with them every day. I think these few bad apples give them a really bad name and we need to expose them for what they are.” McCaul on the demilitarized zone in Syria: “I’m always cautious with Russia, Iran and Assad. They don't have our best interests at heart. However, I talked to the administration this morning and this [demilitarized zone] is welcomed news by them because we've been talking about a no-fly zone in Syria for a long time to save innocent civilian lives in Idlib. I cautiously welcome this and I think the administration will be looking at it with a close eye.” You can click here to watch McCaul’s entire interview with FOX News’ Sandra Smith.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned officials from the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of the Treasury on U.S. sanctions policy at the House Foreign Affairs Committee Hearing. McCaul on his legislation to sanction the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC): “They have taken all of the sanction relief money [from the Iran Deal] and funneled it into terror operations... If a foreign organization looks like a terror group, operates like a terror group, and supports terrorism, then it should be called for what it is – a foreign terrorist organization.” McCaul questions officials if they have looked into sanctioning China for its intellectual theft from the United States: “What is the Trump administration’s response to the gross overreach in cyberspace we continue to see perpetrated by the Chinese government? They steal over $600 billion from the United States economically in intellectual property. During the previous administration, they stole 20 million security clearances and nothing was done about it. We have to make sure that China knows there are consequences for their actions.” You can click here to watch Congressman McCaul’s questioning of Assistant Secretary Singh and Assistant Secretary Billingslea.
09.12.2018	Excerpts from McCaul's remarks:A WMD [weapon of mass destruction] attack in the United States could kill millions of people and bring economic mayhem. We cannot allow these weapons to be used on our soil. So, to prevent that from happening, we must give the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) the authority it needs to counter this threat. This legislation will consolidate the Office of Health Affairs and the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office along with other Department programs, into a Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office. I personally talked to the Secretary, who strongly supports this legislation. This is an opportunity…to come together and pass legislation that will strengthen our homeland. To view Chairman McCaul's remarks as prepared, click here. To watch Chairman McCaul's floor remarks, click here. ###
09.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, the House passed eleven bills to better secure our homeland by improving our nation’s defenses and staying ahead of ever-evolving threats. These bills bolster our border security efforts, strengthen TSA, and better identify cyber threats, among other things. Additional legislation includes H.R. 6439, the Biometric Identification Migration Alert Program (BITMAP) Authorization Act of 2018, which passed by a bipartisan vote of 272-119. Introduced by Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and co-sponsored by Rep. Bill Keating (D-MA), this bill fully authorizes BITMAP and helps prevent potential terrorists and dangerous criminals from entering our country. BITMAP is a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement/Homeland Security Investigations (ICE/HSI)-led program established in 2011 under then-President Obama, in which partner-country law enforcement officers collect and share biometric and biographic data on special interest individuals to identify potential threat actors who utilize illicit pathways to enter the United States. Chairman McCaul: “The terror attacks on 9/11 made clear that we needed to strengthen information sharing among our law enforcement and intelligence agencies, but also with our international partners. As terror threats evolve over time, our adversaries have become more agile—desperate to avoid detection and sneak into our country. To combat this threat, we must leverage international partnerships and the most advanced technology to our advantage. ICE’s BITMAP program shares valuable data from law enforcement officers in participating countries with our own law enforcement and intelligence agencies. In the last few years alone, BITMAP has identified several hundred known or suspected terrorists in addition to criminals, drug smugglers, human traffickers, murderers, child predators, and dangerous gangs like MS-13. “It is critical that DHS and its partners have every tool necessary to protect American citizens and I am glad to see the House act in a bipartisan manner on these vital national security bills. I am proud that this Committee continues to lead the charge to do even more to protect our homeland.” House Passed Legislation Includes: H.R. 6265, PreCheck is PreCheck Act of 2018, introduced by Rep. Katko (R-NY), ensures that only travelers who are members of a trusted traveler program use Transportation Security Administration security screening lanes designated for trusted travelers. H.R. 6374, Fitness Information Transparency Act of 2018, introduced by Rep. Perry (R-PA), requires the Department of Homeland Security to streamline Federal contractor fitness determinations. H.R. 6400, United States Ports Of Entry Threat And Operational Review Act, introduced by Rep. Lesko (R-AZ), requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct a threat and operational analysis of ports of entry. H.R. 6430, Securing the Homeland Security Supply Chain Act of 2018, introduced by Rep. King (R-NY), authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to implement certain requirements for information relating to supply chain risk. H.R. 6438, DHS Countering Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator Act, introduced by Rep. Perry (R-PA), amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish in the Department of Homeland Security an Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator. H.R. 6439, Biometric Identification Transnational Migration Alert Program Authorization Act of 2018, introduced by Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), establishes in the Department of Homeland Security the Biometric Identification Transnational Migration Alert Program. H.R. 6443, Advancing Cybersecurity Diagnostics and Mitigation Act, introduced by Rep. Ratcliffe (R-TX), authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a continuous diagnostics and mitigation program at the Department of Homeland Security. H.R. 6447, Department of Homeland Security Chief Data Officer Authorization Act, introduced by Rep. Carter (R-TX), establishes the position of Chief Data Officer of the Department of Homeland Security. H.R. 5869, Maritime Border Security Review Act, introduced by Rep. González-Colón (D-PR), requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct a maritime border threat analysis. H.R. 6459, TSA Opportunities to Pursue Expanded Networks for Business Act, introduced by Rep. Thompson (D-MS), requires a strategy to diversify the technology stakeholder marketplace regarding the acquisition by the Transportation Security Administration of security screening technologies. H.R. 6461, TSA National Deployment Force Act, introduced by Rep. Watson Coleman (D-NJ), establishes in the Transportation Security Administration a National Deployment Office. NOTE: The House Homeland Security Committee has now passed over 100 bills this Congress.
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after President Trump announced an updated trade agreement with Mexico. Congressman McCaul: “I am encouraged by President Trump’s announcement of an updated trade agreement with Mexico today. There is no doubt that we need improved trade agreements for the 21st century to promote the best interests of America’s small businesses, farmers, and workers. I look forward to reviewing the agreement in full to ensure that it promotes robust trade between Texas and Mexico. I hope today’s announcement also highlights the importance of swiftly working with our close ally Canada to find similar common ground.” ###​
08.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced the start of this year’s Veterans History Project, a nation-wide preservation effort with the Library of Congress. McCaul invites all veterans residing in the 10th Congressional District of Texas who have served in any capacity from World War II to recent conflicts to share their stories so their legacy can be preserved in the Library of Congress. Congressman McCaul: “As the proud son of a WWII B-17 bombardier, I am inspired and awestruck by the service of our men and women in uniform. I want to make sure their stories, these important historical accounts, will be preserved for generations to come.” The interviews will be recorded by a member of McCaul’s staff in the veterans’ choice of video or audio-only format. In addition to the oral history, the Library of Congress also accepts photographs, letters, diaries, journals, and other military documents for preservation. Each veterans’ story will then be available for historians, researchers, and future generations to access. Our staff members are available to meet and conduct the interviews in any location most comfortable for the veterans. Our office is planning on conducting interviews starting in late-September. If you are a veteran who is interested in sharing your story or know someone who would be, please contact Robert Dyke in McCaul’s Austin office at (512) 473-2357 or via email at robert.dyke@mail.house.gov. ###
08.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Under the leadership of Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), the House Homeland Security Committee has prioritized cybersecurity legislation over the last several years and has taken strong bipartisan action. Recently, Vice President Mike Pence spoke out on the importance of Chairman McCaul’s bipartisan House-passed legislation, H.R. 3359, to enhance DHS’s vital cybersecurity and critical infrastructure-related missions and authorities by streamlining the current structure of the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) and elevating it to a stand-alone operational organization to be known as the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). In addition, the Committee has held hearings on the cyber threat to election and other critical infrastructure and has championed legislation to strengthen our nation’s cyber defenses and enhance the resilience of our critical infrastructure, including H.R. 3359, H.R. 2825, and H.R. 5074. While these actions will do much to improve our cybersecurity capabilities, there is more work to be done. Chairman McCaul: “With each passing day, the cyber threats facing our homeland continue to grow. FBI Director Christopher Wray said last week, ‘This threat is not going away. As I have said consistently, Russia attempted to interfere with the last election and continues to engage in malign influence operations to this day.’ Russia is not our friend, and we cannot allow anyone to undermine the confidence in our electoral process.“The House has passed bipartisan bills to protect our digital networks from cyber intruders—including nation states, hackers, and cybercriminals—who are relentless in their pursuit to target our election and other critical infrastructure. I encourage the Senate to take up these key measures quickly so we can to provide the direction and support needed to best combat an ever-evolving cyber threat landscape to keep the American people and our democracy safe and secure.” Notable legislation includes: H.R. 2825, the Department of Homeland Security Reauthorization Act of 2017 The first ever, comprehensive reauthorization of DHS passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support with a vote of 386-41. This bill eliminates and streamlines programs within DHS, re-asserts Congress’s Article I authority, protects taxpayer dollars, and supports America’s first responders and front-line defenders. Of note, this bill ensures that DHS prioritizes assistance to state and local election officials when requested. H.R. 3359, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Act of 2017 This bill creates a stand-alone operational organization within the Department to elevate and prioritize its vital obligation to protect our information technology networks and critical infrastructure. H.R. 5074, the DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams Act of 2018 This bill codifies and improves DHS’s cyber incident response teams. These teams work within the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) and can provide assistance and support to asset owners and operators. This legislation allows private sector cybersecurity experts to participate on these “fly away” response teams. ###
07.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the House passage of his legislation: H.R. 5535, the Energy Diplomacy Act. Congressman McCaul: “Advancing America’s energy security is a critical aspect of U.S. foreign policy. Congress must ensure the State Department is properly staffed and authorized to execute strong policies to protect and promote our energy security interests abroad. As energy-rich adversaries such as Iran and Russia are using their energy resources to expand their influence, we need our diplomats on the front lines, promoting reliable American energy.” You can click here or on the video below to watch Congressman McCaul’s remarks on the House Floor supporting his bill. Below are Congressman McCaul’s remarks as prepared: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of my legislation, the Energy Diplomacy Act. Across the globe, our friends and allies want a stable and reliable supply of American energy. America, in turn, must actively engage our friends and allies to provide alternatives to energy from rogue regimes. Look what is happening in Europe. For over a decade Russia has used their natural gas pipelines flowing into Eastern and Central Europe as a point of leverage over these countries. Ukraine has been most affected, with Russia turning off their natural gas supply in the winter of 2008, and during the annexation of Crimea in 2014. By twisting a knob, and turning off Ukrainian heat, they were able to exert an outsized amount of influence on Ukraine. Now, Russia’s proposed “Nord Stream 2” pipeline with Germany further threatens to expand Russia’s energy influence throughout Eastern and Central Europe. Make no mistake: Russia is a destabilizing regime that constantly exploits the vulnerabilities posed by Europe’s reliance on their natural gas. The United States must be involved to curb this influence. Over the past decade the United States has reduced our reliance on foreign sources of energy in order to achieve energy independence. As a result, we are now exporting energy abroad, including from my home state of Texas. In fact, in 2015, I helped champion the repeal of the outdated crude oil export ban. Now, U.S. producers are finding new customers in both Asia and Europe. This is why I authored the Energy Diplomacy Act. This legislation elevates the Bureau of Energy Resources at the State Department. It replaces the International Energy Affairs Coordinator with an Assistant Secretary. This Secretary will carry out the Department’s functions on behalf of the United States. It also ensures the State Department is staffed with sufficient personnel to support this mission. This will empower the State Department to promote and advance a bold U.S. energy diplomacy policy. As energy-rich adversaries expand their malign influence, and our allies continue to purchase from such states, the United States must project strong energy diplomacy now more than ever. It is not just Russia whom we must contend with. One of Iran’s main goals in negotiating their nuclear deal – the JCPOA – was to open up their energy markets to more foreign investment, and to expand their oil exports globally. Since the U.S. departed from the JCPOA, our European allies and our strategic partner India, are deciding between complying with U.S. sanctions, or ignoring them and buying Iranian oil. We need our diplomats on the front lines, promoting reliable American energy. These two circumstances underscore the need for an Assistant Secretary for Energy Resources to project U.S. energy diplomacy throughout the world. I want to thank Chairman Royce, as well as Ranking Member Engel – an original cosponsor of this bill – for their work in bringing this bill to the Floor. I yield back the balance of my time. ###
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Five lawmakers introduced a bipartisan bill giving a full range of medical services to families with children who have life-limiting illnesses and who qualify for Medicaid, which currently has gaps in such coverage. The Children’s Program of All-Inclusive Coordinated Care (ChiPACC) Act (H.R. 6560) would let states create comprehensive care programs for these children. Its authors are the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus: Representatives Michael McCaul (R-TX), Jackie Speier (D-CA), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), and Mike Kelly (R-PA), together with Representative Diana DeGette (D-CO), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “Families with children facing life-limiting illnesses need all the support they can get, and they should be empowered to seek out that support,” the bill’s sponsors said in a joint statement. “We owe it to these kids and their loved ones to help ensure more compassionate care in their most trying times.” Gaps in Medicaid coverage of hospice and palliative services have deprived many beneficiaries of the care they need because the program does not cover some of children’s unique medical needs. Under this bill, the family of every child who qualifies for Medicaid will receive a specialized care plan covering a range of services – palliative, counseling, respite, expressive therapy and bereavement – providing them and their families greater comfort and peace of mind. ###
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday, House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and senior member of the House Judiciary Committee Congressman Steve Chabot (R-OH) introduced H.R. 6401, the Preventing Emerging Threats Act of 2018. The McCaul-Chabot bill provides the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) with the authorities they need to protect communities and buildings from security risks posed by unmanned aerial systems (UAS), or more commonly referred to as a drone. Over the next decade, UAS usage will continue to grow and change how we do business in the United States. But in the wrong hands, UAS can also pose a great threat to people and property. Overseas, they have been used as weapons on the battlefield. Criminals use this technology to smuggle drugs and surveil law enforcement. Large gatherings such as sporting events and concerts are also vulnerable to nefarious drone operators. Chairman McCaul: “Law enforcement is currently constrained from best defending against potentially dangerous drones due to outdated laws. As with other threats, we must constantly evaluate and adapt our policy and procedures to stay one step ahead. The McCaul-Chabot bill grants DHS and DOJ the ability to act quickly and effectively when a UAS poses a security risk to large scale events and government facilities. This bill also allows the departments to thwart potential acts of terror and violence in real-time by deploying counter UAS technology. By limiting the geographic area where UAS data may be collected and the circumstances data may be maintained, this bill strikes the right balance between the ability of our government to take down a threatening drone and protecting a lawful UAS users’ privacy.” Congressman Chabot: "Drones represent an exciting new technology with endless possibilities. At the same time, their misuse raises numerous safety concerns both for the general public and for government entities. The legislation we are introducing today will give law enforcement the tools they need to counter any security risks created by drones used in a threatening manner, especially those used in conjunction with terrorism or other criminal or violent acts. The legislation also contains important safeguards to protect the civil liberties of those using drones in a legal and responsible manner.”Background on the McCaul-Chabot bill: Grants the DHS and DOJ the ability to address threats posed by unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) to large scale events and certain government facilities utilizing counter UAS technology Allows the Departments to react, in real-time, to stop acts of terror and threats of violence Provides clarity to the public by focusing counter-UAS capabilities on high value or high profile targets. This will allow more consistent and clear public notification about no-fly areas Allows the Departments to determine the best technology for its needs at a specific location Allows DHS and DOJ to work with the FAA to determine the proper type of technology to use to protect a target based on the circumstances Limits the circumstances when data can be maintained and the geographic area where data may be collected
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after President Trump’s meeting and press conference with Vladimir Putin in Helsinki. Congressman McCaul: “I continue to stand with the U.S. Intelligence Community’s assessment that Russia meddled in our 2016 Presidential election. Vladimir Putin’s long-standing goals are to undermine the credibility of our democracy and to sow discord among the American people. In fact, just last week, I held a hearing to examine the Department of Homeland Security’s efforts to assist state and local officials in securing our election infrastructure from outside influence. Whether illegally annexing Crimea, invading sovereign Georgian territory, propping up a murderous dictator in Syria, or barraging Estonian, European, and U.S. critical infrastructure with cyber operations, Russia continues a global destabilization campaign under Putin. “We must not forget that last year Congress passed legislation to sanction Russia for its interference in our election, continued malicious cyberattacks, and its intervention in Ukraine. I have repeatedly warned since before the 2016 election that foreign interference in our electoral process cannot be tolerated. As we speak, our election infrastructure and democratic society are under attack. It is critical that we ensure our systems are protected and we send a clear message to Putin that there are consequences for these illegal actions.” ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10), Roger Williams (TX-25), John Carter (TX-31), and Lamar Smith (TX-21) announced that the U.S. Army selected Austin, Texas as the site for its Futures Command Center. Last month, members of the Texas Delegation sent a letter to U.S. Army Secretary Mark Esper in support of the Austin Mega Region as the future basing location for the next Army Futures Command. Congressman McCaul: “I cannot think of a better place for the Army Futures Command Center to be located. Austin, my hometown, is a booming tech-hub with close ties to the U.S. Armed Forces. We already host some of the U.S. military’s newest innovative research and development investments, including the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental, the Army Research Lab South, and the Air Force’s ‘AFWERXs.’ I know this addition will serve as great help to the Command. While it will provide more jobs for TX-10, our innovative environment will also ensure our nation maintains the best of the best in our military. As the proud son of a WWII B-17 bombardier, I look forward to continuing to support this new defense center.” Congressman Williams: “This is great news for the State of Texas and the United States. Austin is the fastest growing city in the nation, and I cannot think of a location more fit to serve as the modernization and innovation hub for the United States Army. It creates a unique synergy between the military, academia and industry partners, unified in their goal to provide soldiers with the weapons and equipment that they need to fight and win. As a resident and the representative of Austin, I welcome the Army Futures Command, and look forward to working with them to ensure the Army remains the best trained and equipped fighting force in the world.” Congressman Carter: “I’m proud to have secured the last bit of funding necessary, with the help of Defense Appropriations Chairwoman Kay Granger, to make Austin the new home of Futures Command. As the command tasked with spearheading Army modernization projects and preparing for future conflict, the new Futures Command will serve a critical role in strengthening the security of our country and will be an economic driver for the Central Texas region. This major investment in Central Texas will also immediately bring 500 new jobs, and further strengthen Central Texas’ economy. Central Texas is one of the fastest growing regions in the nation, with outstanding universities, affordable housing, and a commitment to America’s military that can’t be matched. I expect to see many of these new Texas residents plant their roots right here in Texas’ 31st Congressional District and we welcome them with open arms.” Congressman Smith: “This is tremendous news for central Texas. The Army Futures Command will bring hundreds of jobs to the Austin area. With its excellent academic institutions and established technology sector, Austin will be of great help to the Command. I look forward to Texas playing an even greater role in securing our country by welcoming this newest defense center.” ###
07.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, was selected by Speaker Paul Ryan to be a member of the House-Senate conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Congressman McCaul: “I am grateful for this opportunity to support the brave men and women who wear our nation’s uniform. As the proud son of a WWII B-17 bombardier, I have long admired these heroes who selflessly serve our nation and the sacrifices they have made. Throughout my tenure as Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, my top priority has always been providing the United States with the best national security policies and practices. As a NDAA conference committee member, I will ensure we provide our military with the resources and equipment they need to defend our nation’s security and I thank the Speaker for giving me this chance to serve.” ###
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the Supreme Court decision to uphold President Trump's Proclamation 9645 Enhancing Vetting Capabilities and Processes for Detecting Attempted Entry Into the United States by Terrorists or Other Public-Safety Threats. Chairman McCaul: “As threats to our homeland continue to grow we need to make sure that individuals entering our country do not pose a risk to our national security. We should not allow people from adversarial states or conflict zones into America until they have been vetted to the fullest extent possible. I applaud the Supreme Court for its important decision that will better protect Americans and I urge Congress to take action to secure our Southern border.”
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – This week, the House of Representatives unanimously passed seven bills to better secure our homeland by staying ahead of ever-evolving threats and improving our nation’s defenses. These bills raise the standards for transportation security by requiring enhanced evaluation of screening technologies and strengthening public transportation areas. Additional legislation will help the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to better identify cyber threats, bolster our border security efforts, improve suspicious activity reporting for acts of terrorism, among other things. Last week, the House unanimously passed three Committee bills including one that protect Americans from the opioid epidemic by allowing DHS to establish a Joint Task Force charged with prohibiting illicit drugs from entering the United States. The other bills address security vulnerabilities of public spaces, and evaluate emerging technologies and conduct research to assist emergency response providers in preparing for, and protecting against, threats of terrorism. Chairman McCaul: “In today’s dynamic threat environment, we must continually evaluate and improve our readiness and response to any threat to our homeland. These bills enhance our transportation security, strengthen our cyber defenses, harden soft targets, improve suspicious activity reporting to prevent acts of terrorism. It is critical that DHS and its partners have every tool necessary to protect American citizens and I am glad to see the House act in a bipartisan manner on these national security bills. “While we are taking positive steps towards combating the opioid epidemic that persists to destroy American lives, we must continue to do more. H.R. 5762 allows DHS to establish a Joint Task Force to help prohibit narcotics, such as fentanyl, and other synthetic opioids from entering the United States, and strengthens partnerships between federal agencies and the private sector. Stopping the flow of illegal drugs into our country will allow for a stronger and more secure America.”NOTE: The Committee continues to address the critical opioid epidemic. After passing through the Committee with unanimous support, the INTERDICT Act was signed into law to provide Customs and Border Protection (CBP) with additional resources to screen and detect synthetic opioids at the border. House Passed Legislation Includes: H.R. 5094 - Enhancing Suspicious Activity Reporting Initiative Act, sponsored by Rep. Peter King (R-NY), to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to improve suspicious activity reporting to prevent acts of terrorism. H.R. 5081 - Surface Transportation Security and Technology Accountability Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. John Katko (R-NY), to establish within the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) the Surface Transportation Security Advisory Committee. H.R. 5730 - Transportation Security Technology Innovation Reform Act of 2018, as amended, sponsored by Rep. John Katko (R-NY), to require testing and evaluation of advanced transportation security screening technologies related to the mission of TSA. H.R. 5766 - Securing Public Areas of Transportation Facilities Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ), to improve the security of public areas of transportation facilities. H.R. 5733 - DHS Industrial Control Systems Capabilities Enhancement Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. Don Bacon (R-NE), to provide for the responsibility of the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) to maintain capabilities to identify threats to industrial control systems. H.R. 5206 - OBIM Authorization Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ), to establish the Office of Biometric Identity Management. H.R. 5207 - IAP Authorization Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ), to establish the immigration advisory program. H.R. 4627, Shielding Public Spaces from Vehicular Terrorism Act, sponsored by Rep. Dan Donovan (R-NY), establishes the National Urban Security Technology Laboratory. H.R. 4991, Supporting Research and Development for First Responders Act, sponsored by Rep. Dan Donovan (R-NY), authorizes expenditures to combat emerging terrorist threats, including vehicular attacks.H.R. 5762, Joint Task Force to Combat Opioid Trafficking Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. James Langevin (D-RI), allows DHS to establish a Joint Task Force to prohibit narcotics, such as fentanyl, and other synthetic opioids from entering the United States.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the House passage of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act. This legislation was passed with overwhelming bipartisan support and now heads to the U.S. Senate. Congressman McCaul: “While we are taking many positive steps towards combatting the opioid epidemic, we must continue do more. That is why I was proud to support this comprehensive package that targets the epidemic across multiple agencies. By focusing our federal efforts, and providing improved tools and resources to those fighting on the front lines in our local towns and communities, we will be able to address the systemic issues that contribute to this crisis. “I’m glad to see we are diligently working to end the flow of illegal drugs entering into our country. By doing so, we will allow more Americans to follow their dreams and build a brighter future. I look forward to our continued work in the Congress to eradicate the scourge of opioids across our nation.” Here are a few of the pieces of opioid legislation included in H.R. 6: H.R. 5788 – the Securing the International Mail Against Opioids Act of 2018 (STOP Act). According to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), about 340 million packages enter the United States through the international mail stream with little or no electronic manifest data associated with them. Drug dealers know this and use the global postal system to deliver their deadly goods into our homes and communities. Private carriers are already subject to these requirements and McCaul has been long advocating for this change to how USPS handles international mail. H.R. 2851 – the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act (SITSA Act). This legislation will improve the U.S. Attorney General’s ability to schedule a new dangerous drug in a matter of months when it is virtually identical to a currently scheduled drug. This will stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs. H.R. 5806 – the 21st Century Tools for Pain and Addiction Treatment Act. This legislation directs the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to issue or update guidance on ways existing pathways can be used to bring novel non-addictive treatments for pain and addiction to patients. Several approaches have proven successful in speeding the availability of treatments for serious conditions through the FDA. H.R. 5580 – the STOP Fentanyl Deaths Act of 2018. This legislation authorizes grants to state and local agencies for the establishment or operation of public health laboratories to detect fentanyl, its analogues, and other synthetic opioids.
06.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the situation at the southern border. Chairman McCaul: “As a father of five, I have been distraught over the images coming from our southern border of children being taken away from their parents without knowing when they will reunite. This separation policy must come to an end. I am encouraged to hear that DHS is working with the White House to draft executive action on this issue and I urge the President to use every authority available to him to end this practice. Tomorrow, the House of Representatives will take up two of my bills which will address family separation, finally secure our borders, and will fix the systemic issue of illegal immigration due to loopholes in our broken immigration system. I also pledge to continue working with all of my Congressional colleagues to get a long term solution to the president’s desk as soon as possible.”
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following the summit between President Donald J. Trump and North Korean Leader Kim Jong-un. Congressman McCaul: “Following the historic summit between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, I remain cautiously optimistic that these talks maintain the potential for a monumental diplomatic breakthrough. But, we cannot lose sight of the Kim Dynasty’s history of negotiating in bad faith with the three previous administrations. A deal that does not detail the complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of North Korea will be unacceptable. In the meantime, we need to uphold our campaign of maximum pressure to ensure we hold Kim and his regime accountable for flouting international norms and law. I have great faith in Secretary of State Mike Pompeo – who I served with in the House – to get the best deal possible for the American people.”
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Bill Keating (D-MA) announced the introduction of H.R. 6018, the Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership Act of 2018. The Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership (TSCTP), which was created in 2005, is a multi-agency effort to assist partners in West and North Africa increase their immediate and long-term capabilities to address terrorist threats and prevent the spread of violent extremism. This bill would codify the TSCTP and allow for this partnership to endure as we continue to deal with the looming threat of terrorism coming from Africa. Congressman McCaul: “While terrorism is not new to Africa, ISIS fighters are moving South following the defeat of the caliphate into a region already encountering threats from Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, Boko Haram, and Al Shabaab. The Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership – created in 2005, but never authorized by Congress - is key to preventing the rise of another safe haven for Islamic jihadists. “Given the threats we face, I hope we can work quickly to get this legislation to the Floor and codify our efforts to boost the capabilities of our African partners.” Congressman Keating: “As Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Terrorism Subcommittee, we’ve examined how important it is to think of terrorism outside the lens of the traditional networks. Combatting terrorism effectively and keeping Americans safe is also about eliminating terrorist financing flows, strengthening the rule of law, and promoting community level engagement - including through the meaningful participation of women in countering violent extremism and more generally in their countries. As ISIS has lost territory in Syria and Iraq, terrorists will be leaving the region and seeking safe haven elsewhere to recruit and plan attacks, so failing to invest in our counterterrorism capabilities and partnerships in Africa now would be a grave mistake. This bill advances our security by authorizing the Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership to bring our own Departments of State and Defense as well as USAID together to make sure we are pursuing a robust strategy for counterterrorism cooperation in this critical region in Africa.” ###
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), along with Congressman John Culberson (TX-07), offered an amendment to the Water Resource Development Act (WRDA) of 2018 to require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the completion of flood and storm damage reduction studies to reduce the risk of damage from future floods and hurricanes in the Houston and Coastal Texas areas. WRDA bills provide the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with direction and reforms for federal investments in water resources infrastructure. McCaul’s amendment was adopted and the U.S. House of Representatives passed WRDA by a vote of 408 – 2. Congressman McCaul: “As Texas continues to recover from the worst natural disaster in our history, one of the best ways to prevent future flooding is to expedite flood mitigation studies in the Houston area. Congress has appropriated $12.1 billion to the Army Corps to conduct studies for projects like the Cypress Creek solution, but sadly, these studies often take years to complete. We do not have the luxury of time for another major flood event. The federal government is plagued with what I like to call ‘paralysis of analysis’ and Texans need action now. “I appreciate Representatives Culberson, Brady, Olson, Weber, Poe, and Al Green for cosponsoring my amendment. And I thank Chairman Shuster for working with me on this vital issue to Southeast Texas.” Congressman Culberson: “Many families and business owners across Houston have experienced the devastation of watching their homes and businesses flood. I’m proud to be a lead sponsor of Representative McCaul’s (TX-10) amendment to ensure that the U.S Army Corps of Engineers will clear the backlog of studies that are so desperately needed to protect our communities from future storms like Harvey. This amendment will make sure that the Army Corps of Engineers completes these studies rapidly and that they execute quickly in building whatever is recommended to help protect the people of Houston and Southeast Texas from the next storm.”
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A bipartisan group of lawmakers today introduced legislation to require the U.S. government to make an assessment of North Korea’s existing weapons of mass destruction (WMD) capabilities—its “baseline”—in advance of the Trump-Kim summit in Singapore. The North Korea Nuclear Baseline Act would also mandate regular reporting to Congress on North Korea’s progress toward dismantling its nuclear, ballistic missile, and chemical and biological weapons stockpiles, production, and programs. The bill was introduced by Representative Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Reps. Ted Yoho (R-FL) and Brad Sherman (D-CA), Chair and Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia and the Pacific; Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA); and Rep. Steve Russell (R-OK). “As President Trump advances denuclearization negotiations with North Korea, Congress must provide aggressive oversight to ensure North Korea is truly upholding their commitments. To that end, this bill would require the Administration to regularly update Congress on North Korean nuclear, ballistic missile, and chemical capabilities, and verify that North Korea is making honest progress towards its assurances,” said Rep. McCaul. “Successful negotiation with North Korea requires understanding what the country’s capabilities are now, and implementation of any potential deal requires tough verification that the Kim Regime is actually dismantling its weapons. This bill will establish that baseline and help ensure that we hold Pyongyang to its obligations in any future agreement,” said Rep. Engel. “This bill is an important starting point for negotiations with the Kim regime and comes at a critical moment in history. It is vital that we have mechanisms in place to measure the denuclearization of Kim’s arsenal. The North Korea Nuclear Baseline Act will hopefully help usher in a verifiable peaceful resolution to the Korean peninsula,” said Rep. Yoho. “We need this comprehensive analysis to ensure that we have the right policies in place to counter North Korea in the event we cannot get a disarmament process underway and, in the event we do, to aid in the verification that will be necessary to implement it,” said Rep. Sherman. “Striking an agreement with North Korea would be step one in a long process towards denuclearization. After that, this process will require vigorous enforcement to ensure we don’t fall prey to the same mistakes of the past. This bill will ensure Congress has the necessary information to track the agreement’s implementation and provide robust oversight of the Administration’s decisions,” said Rep. Lieu. The North Korea Nuclear Baseline Act would require the President to submit to relevant Congressional committees a report detailing the status of North Korea’s nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons; research, development, and production facilities for weapons of mass destruction; ballistic missiles and missile production facilities; and gaps in available intelligence. The bill also requires regular updates that, in the event a deal is reached, would include verification of North Korea’s denuclearization activities.
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representatives Michael McCaul (R-TX), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Mike Kelly (R-PA), and Jackie Speier (D-CA) along with Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) today announced that their bipartisan bill, the Childhood Cancer STAR (Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research) Act, was signed into law by President Trump last night. The STAR Act aims to advance childhood cancer research and child-focused cancer treatments for the nearly 16,000 children diagnosed with cancer in the United States every year, while also improving the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors. "Yesterday is a historic day – the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill is now law,” said Congressman McCaul. “By elevating the fight against childhood cancer at the National Institute of Health, and giving them more tools to be more effective in this fight, we will find the best solutions and care for our children. None of this would have been possible without all of the advocates and survivors who continue to share their stories and motivate Members to act.” “No parent should have to lose a child to cancer,” said Congressman Butterfield. “Sadly, childhood cancer remains a leading cause of death in American children. With this legislation, we are taking concrete steps to battle this disease. I am proud we were able to work across the aisle to see this important legislation to the finish line. This bill will ultimately save the lives of young patients in North Carolina and across the country.” “The enactment of the most comprehensive anti-cancer bill ever passed is a triumph for all Americans, said Congressman Kelly. “It was a true honor to be in the Oval Office yesterday evening as President Trump signed this historic bill into law. I firmly believe that the day is drawing nearer when no child ever has to hear the words ‘You have cancer’ again. With tools like the STAR Act, the fight to end pediatric cancer forever can and will be won!” "Yesterday, Congress and the President joined forces to say ‘Enough is Enough’ when it comes to the devastating impacts of childhood cancer,” said Congresswoman Speier. “I’m grateful for the hard work and dedication of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in the Childhood Cancer Caucus. However, the credit really belongs with the childhood cancer community who never faltered in the fight to pass the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill in the history of Congress. On behalf of every child, parent, and family affected by this deadly scourge, thank you.” See more information below on the bipartisan Childhood Cancer STAR Act: The Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act of 2017 would expand opportunities for childhood cancer research, improve efforts to identify and track childhood cancer incidences, and enhance the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors. Expanding Opportunities for Childhood Cancer Research: Due to the relatively small population of children with cancer and the geographic distance between these children, researching childhood cancer can be challenging. As such, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act would authorize the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to expand existing efforts to collect biospecimens for childhood cancer patients enrolled in NCI-sponsored clinical trials to collect and maintain relevant clinical, biological, and demographic information on all children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer. Improving Childhood Cancer Surveillance: Building upon previous efforts, this bill would authorize grants to state cancer registries to identify and track incidences of child, adolescent, and young adult cancer. This funding would be used to identify and train reporters of childhood cancer cases, secure infrastructure to ensure early reporting and capture of child cancer incidences, and support the collection of cases into a national childhood cancer registry. Improving Quality of Life for Childhood Cancer Survivors: Unfortunately, even after beating cancer, as many as two-thirds of survivors suffer from late effects of their disease or treatment, including secondary cancers and organ damage. This legislation would enhance research on the late effects of childhood cancers and improve the quality of life for survivors by funding models of long-term care to promote collaboration among providers and to help monitor the progress of survivors as they age. Ensuring Pediatric Expertise at the National Institutes of Health (NIH): The Childhood Cancer STAR Act would require the inclusion of at least one pediatric oncologist on the National Cancer Advisory Board and would improve childhood health reporting requirements to include pediatric cancer. Background: The Childhood Cancer STAR Act was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Reps. McCaul, Butterfield, Kelly, and Speier in February 2017. The legislation earned 371 co-sponsors in the House and 55 in the U.S. Senate. ###
05.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced that Salim Khondker of Sealy, TX has been selected as the overall winner for Texas’s Tenth Congressional District in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Salim’s artwork, titled Texas Hill Country Trio, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Congressman McCaul: “Congratulations to Salim for being chosen as this year’s winner among other talented young artists in our district. His artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year among the other teen winners from around the country. I also want to commend runner-ups Diego, Helen, Kailey, Jennifer, and Aurora for their outstanding art pieces. These accomplishments are a true testament to their artistic skill and it makes me proud to know such promising talent resides in the 10th District of Texas.” This year, 13 students from around the district participated in the TX-10 Congressional Art Competition. Below are this year’s 2nd – 5th place winners and People’s Choice Award: 2nd Place Winner: Diego Carlson from Pflugerville Title of artwork: “Longhorn Sunset” 3rd Place Winner: Helen He from Austin Title of artwork: “The Orca and I” 4th Place Winner: Kailey Burgdorf from Giddings Title of artwork: “#85” 5th Place Winner: Jennifer Han from Cedar Park Title of artwork: “Luna” People’s Choice Award: Aurora Carranco Ramirez from Schulenburg Title of artwork: “The Beauty of Peacock” ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after President Trump announced there would be no summit with North Korea next month. Congressman McCaul: “The recent hostility from the Kim regime has unfortunately sidelined a historic opportunity for the entire global community to advance peace. However, the United States will not tolerate the diplomatic mind games that have plagued past Administrations. America and our allies must remain united and continue our maximum pressure campaign until we have achieved a complete, verifiable, and irreversible denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.”
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned Secretary of State Mike Pompeo during his first appearance before the House Foreign Affairs Committee today. McCaul questioning the Secretary on Iran: “Mr. Secretary, you and I talked about the JCPOA when we were in the Congress together. We had concerns it did not address Iran’s ballistic missile program, it didn’t have ‘anywhere, anytime inspections,’ and it did not address their sponsorship of terrorism. We know they have put up to $150 billion of sanctions relief into their terror operations and they continue to build a “Shia Crescent” throughout the Middle East. “What is the likelihood that you will ever be able to reach an agreement with our European allies, the Saudis, and Iran moving forward?” McCaul questioning the Secretary on North Korea: “We all know that North Korea has a history of breaking their commitments to past deals with the United States. But you are one of the only American diplomats to meet with Kim Jong Un. “From your experiences traveling to North Korea, what have you learned to demonstrate that this time could be different?” You can click here to watch the full Q&A between Congressman McCaul and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, urges support for his amendment to H.R. 5515, the National Defense Authorization Act. Specifically, this amendment extends a provision in the NDAA that prohibits federal departments and agencies from purchasing ZTE and Huawei products and services to apply also to federal grant money and loans in order to better safeguard state and local communications networks. You can click here or on the image below to watch Congressman McCaul’s floor speech urging support for his amendment. Below are Congressman McCaul’s remarks as prepared: Mr. Speaker, Protecting U.S. Government communications networks from foreign adversaries, such as China, is vital to our national security. I share the concerns of FBI Director Christopher Wray, who testified before the Senate that he was “deeply concerned about the risks of allowing any company or entity that is beholden to foreign governments, that don’t share our values, to gain positions of power inside our telecommunications networks.” I am pleased to see that Section 880 of the National Defense Authorization Act of FY19 addresses this concern by prohibiting federal departments and agencies from procuring equipment and services from foreign firms, such as ZTE and Huawei. Specifically, ZTE violated U.S. sanctions and then got caught lying about it. After agreeing to discipline their employees, they lied again and instead gave those employees a bonus. Now it appears that we are offering them the same kind of deal. They clearly do not have a record built on trust. This poses significant risks to our nation’s security. However, this prohibition does not apply to state and local governments, who often rely on federal grant dollars and also play a major role in the protection of our nation’s security. This is why I’ve offered this amendment to the NDAA. My amendment extends the prohibition on purchasing ZTE and Huawei products and services to federal grant money and loans to better safeguard state and local communications networks. I am proud to have developed this amendment, in a bipartisan manner, with Chairman Thornberry and others. Mr. Speaker, effectively defending the United States from malicious activity and intrusions will depend on a comprehensive, coordinated approach. I urge my colleagues to protect our nation’s communications networks from foreign adversaries, and support this amendment. I yield back the balance of my time. Thank You. ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, today urged President Trump to reconsider lifting penalties on the Chinese telecommunications firm Zhongxing Telecommunications Equipment (ZTE) on grounds that it poses a significant risk to U.S. national security. In response to the President’s announcement that he is working with President Xi of China to get ZTE back into business the United States, the lawmakers highlighted ZTE’s previous violations of U.S. statutory sanctions, and the risk it poses to U.S. national security and U.S. credibility. “The penalties you seek to lift were imposed after ZTE violated U.S. law sanctioning exports of certain items to Iran and North Korea. Lifting these penalties that were instituted after a law enforcement process would undermine the credibility of United States sanctions and permit ZTE, an entity with ties to Chinese military and intelligence agencies, access to U.S. components and technology, which would pose a risk to United States national security,” the Members wrote. The Members continued, “Providing a reprieve for ZTE would undermine United States efforts to apply pressure on both Iran and North Korea for their malign activities. It would also empower other entities and organizations to attempt to evade United States sanctions and conduct business with Iran and North Korea. This would undermine the credibility and effectiveness of the campaign to apply maximum pressure on North Korea for its nuclear and ballistic missile programs.” The full text of the letter follows and can be found here. May 22, 2018 President Donald J. Trump White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20036 Dear President Trump: We urge you to reassess your consideration of lifting penalties on Chinese telecommunications firm Zhongxing Telecommunications Equipment (ZTE), which has violated United States statutory sanctions. The penalties you seek to lift were imposed after ZTE violated U.S. law sanctioning exports of certain items to Iran and North Korea. Lifting these penalties that were instituted after a law enforcement process would undermine the credibility of United States sanctions and permit ZTE, an entity with ties to Chinese military and intelligence agencies, access to U.S. components and technology, which would pose a risk to United States national security. These ZTE penalties follow a 2017 Commerce Department report that disclosed evidence of ZTE re-export of controlled items to sanctions countries in defiance of United States law. That document also lists efforts taken by ZTE to mask these transfers through the use of shell corporations, suggesting malicious intent and malign activity. The Commerce Department’s action in March 2018 to impose these penalties on ZTE followed the company’s acknowledgement of its violation of sanctions and failure to abide by an agreement with the United States government to hold those responsible within their company accountable. The Commerce Department, when applying these penalties, noted that ZTE engaged ‘in a multi-year conspiracy to the violate U.S. trade embargo against Iran’ and that it also illegally shipped ‘telecommunications equipment to North Korea.’ Following this investigation through a deliberative process, the Commerce Department demanded punitive action ZTE must take against employees who supported the export of controlled items to sanctioned countries and actively sought to evade monitoring by the United States among other penalties. According to the Commerce Department, ZTE has not punished these individuals and instead rewarded them with bonuses. These penalties follow this non-compliance on the part of ZTE. The legitimacy and effectiveness of United States sanctions on Iran and North Korea is contingent on a transparent process to hold violators accountable for efforts to evade those sanctions. These determinations were a result of a law enforcement inter-agency process that used evidence to guide the application of penalties on ZTE. Providing a reprieve for ZTE would undermine United States efforts to apply pressure on both Iran and North Korea for their malign activities. It would also empower other entities and organizations to attempt to evade United States sanctions and conduct business with Iran and North Korea. This would undermine the credibility and effectiveness of the campaign to apply maximum-pressure on North Korea for its nuclear and ballistic missile programs. ZTE, in addition to the Chinese telecommunications company Huawei, are closely tied to the government, military, and intelligence agencies of the People’s Republic of China, according to a 2012 House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence ‘Investigative Report on the U.S. National Security Issues Posed by Chinese Telecommunications Companies Huawei and ZTE.’ Congress and the broader U.S. government recognize these activities. Legislation in the House has sought to prohibit the purchase of ZTE or Huawei equipment by the U.S. government. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) moved to prohibit the purchase of ZTE and Huawei equipment through FCC funds, and the Department of Defense recognized the national security risks posed by Huawei and ZTE and banned the sale of devices from either company on United States military bases. An effective sanctions regime requires enforcement and accountability. We urge you to reassess offering relief for ZTE in order to protect jobs in the People’s Republic of China. These penalties have been applied through a deliberative process under United States law and any revision should go through the same degree of debate within the government of the United States. We additionally ask you to reassess your considerations on the basis that allowing ZTE or Huawei to access to U.S. components and technology is a risk to U.S. national security. We look forward to your response. Joaquin Castro Member of Congress Michael T. McCaul Member of Congress ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Co-Chairs of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, Reps. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Mike Kelly (R-PA), and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), applaud the passage of the Senate companion to their bill – S. 292, the Childhood Cancer STAR Act. The STAR Act passed the House today by a unanimous vote. It addresses the four major concerns facing the pediatric cancer community: Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research, and will elevate and prioritize the fight against childhood cancer at the National Institute of Health (NIH). The members released the following joint statement: "Today was a long anticipated day for the pediatric cancer community, and one to be celebrated. This bill is the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill to ever pass Congress and will finally head to the president’s desk to be signed into law. Childhood cancer remains one of the deadliest killers of our kids and we as a Congress, and a nation, must say, ‘Enough is enough.’ As co-chairs of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, we would like to thank all those who made this possible, including the Alliance for Childhood Cancer and the entire childhood cancer advocacy community.” Click here to watch McCaul’s floor remarks ahead of the House passage of the STAR Act.
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, today welcomed the Foreign Affairs Committee’s approval of their bipartisan measure the Protecting Diplomats from Surveillance Through Consumer Devices Act (H.R. 4989), which would account for location-tracking consumer devices in U.S. embassy and consulate security policies. “U.S. diplomats advance our nation’s interests around the world, often in areas where security is at risk. As technology advances and permeates our lives, the proliferation of consumer devices that can track your location exposes our nation’s diplomatic corps and embassy blueprints to security risks. We welcome today’s passage of the Protecting Diplomats from Surveillance Through Consumer Devices Act, which requires the State Department to update embassy and consulate security policies by addressing vulnerabilities associated with location-tracking consumer devices worn by our diplomatic personnel. These frontline civilians risk their lives in service to our nation, and we must do everything we can to ensure they are protected.” You can click here to watch Congressman McCaul’s remarks in committee on this legislation.
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – Today the House passed H. Res. 835, a resolution introduced by Reps. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), and Nita Lowey (D-NY). The resolution calls for all nations to enter into robust diplomatic relations with Israel upon its 70th year of statehood. It also highlights Israel’s recent advances in diplomacy and affirms the importance of diplomatic recognition of the nation in multilateral fora globally. Statement by Representative McCaul: “Yesterday’s egregious attacks against Israel by Iran exemplifies why we must remain steadfast in our support for our Israeli partners. Since its independence in 1948, Israel has thrived in a turbulent region surrounded by few who recognize its existence as a state and enemies who issue threats of annihilation on a regular basis. With the passage of this resolution in the House, there should be no confusion amongst the international community as to where our relationship stands now and where it will be in the future. As we approach the 70th anniversary of Israel as a state, we must reflect on our strong bilateral relationship, and continue working together to advance our common interests internationally.” U.S. Representative Michael McCaul represents Texas’ 10th Congressional District is Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Statement by Representative Foxx: “May 14, 2018 marks the 70th anniversary of the State of Israel; it also marks the beginning of a longstanding friendship between the U.S. and our strategic ally. I’m pleased to support the passage of H. Res. 835 today, which sends a united message from the House of Representatives to the UN and the world that respect for Israel’s national sovereignty and broad recognition of its statehood is a priority for U.S. national security and achieving peace in the Middle East. As Israel furthers its diplomatic reach, the U.S. will continue to support its trade partner, fellow member state in international organizations, ally and friend.” U.S. Rep. Virginia Foxx represents North Carolina’s 5th Congressional District and is the chairwoman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. Statement by Representative Sires: “I would like to thank my colleagues Rep. Foxx, Rep. McCaul, and Rep. Lowey for their work and commitment to getting this important and timely House resolution passed. Israel is a key strategic ally to the United States and continues to play an important and stabilizing role in the region and abroad. This bipartisan resolution marks an incredible milestone for the state of Israel, and I hope that our two countries can continue to work together for generations to come. I applaud my colleagues in the House for unanimously passing this resolution and look forward to continued prosperity and security for the state of Israel.” Rep. Sires is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and sits on the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. Statement by Representative Lowey: “In just 70 years, Israel has overcome seemingly impossible odds to become a light unto the nations. Despite these achievements, Israel is continually treated unfairly at the United Nations and other international fora. With the passage of H.Res. 835, the House of Representatives is sending a strong message of support for the ironclad U.S.-Israel relationship, the expansion of Israel’s diplomatic relations, and a negotiated two-state solution to the Middle East conflict.” U.S. Representative Nita Lowey represents New York’s 17th Congressional District and is the ranking member of the House Appropriations Committee and its State and Foreign Operations Subcommittee.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the committee passage of his legislation: H.R. 5535, the Energy Diplomacy Act. Congressman McCaul: “I want to thank my colleagues on the House Foreign Affairs Committee for their support advancing this important piece of legislation out of committee. America’s energy security is a critical aspect of U.S. foreign policy. This is why Congress must ensure the State Department is properly staffed and authorized to execute strong policies to protect and promote our energy security interests abroad. I look forward to this legislation being brought to the House floor for a vote so we can do exactly that.” You can click here to watch Congressman McCaul’s committee remarks on his bill. Below are Congressman McCaul’s remarks as prepared: Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Engel, Thank you for holding today’s markup. The bills before us are critical to strengthening U.S. engagement and protecting our national security interests across the globe. I would like to commend the bipartisan efforts of my colleagues and I look forward to helping advance these measures to the Floor. I also thank Chairman Royce for including my legislation, the Energy Diplomacy Act, as part of this markup. Across the globe, our friends and allies are looking for a stable and reliable supply of American energy. However, in regions such as Eastern Europe, our allies are still living under the heavy hand of Russia - a destabilizing regime that constantly exploits the vulnerabilities posed by Europe’s reliance on their natural gas. Since coming to Congress, I have advocated for a foreign policy that helps alleviate our allies’ reliance on unpredictable regimes to meet their energy needs. In 2015, I helped champion the repeal of the outdated crude oil export ban. Now, U.S. producers are finding new customers in both Asia and Europe. But we must go a step further. This is why I authored the Energy Diplomacy Act. This legislation elevates the Bureau of Energy Resources at the State Department by replacing the international energy affairs coordinator with an assistant Secretary to carry out the Department’s functions internationally on behalf of the United States. It also ensures the State Department is staffed with sufficient personnel to support our mission. This will empower the State Department to promote and advance a bold energy diplomacy policy abroad. Chairman Royce, ranking member Engel, thank you again for holding today’s important markup. I yield back the balance of my time.
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo secured the release of three American hostages from North Korea. Congressman McCaul: “The release of three Americans unjustly held by the North Korean regime is great news and I look forward to seeing them return home to their families. "Promises to freeze missile tests, close a nuclear test site, and the release of imprisoned Americans are necessary actions by Kim Jong Un ahead of the upcoming negotiations. While these are positive steps, we must also remember that the same regime tortured and murdered Otto Warmbier, an American student, just last year. "If Kim wants to prove that he is genuinely interested in peace, he must fully dismantle his ICBM and nuclear weapons programs. Such actions must be complete, verifiable, and irreversible. Only then will we know that peace on the peninsula is truly possible.”
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the President’s decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Congressman McCaul: “The JCPOA is a flawed agreement that did nothing to address the destabilizing actions of the Iranian regime. This agreement emboldened Iran, filling its coffers with billions in cash to advance its ballistic missile program, expand its support for terrorism, and stretch its tentacles across the region. “The President’s decision today to withdraw from the nuclear agreement is based on these facts. We need a tougher approach and I commend President Trump for leading this effort. I support the continued negotiations underway to forge a new agreement with our international partners to finally address what the JCPOA did not: Iran’s ballistic missile tests, support for terrorism, inspection of military facilities, and preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon once the deal expired. “Iran cannot continue to receive the benefits of sanctions relief while pursuing a foreign policy that endangers the security interests of the United States and our allies. They can never have a nuclear weapon. They have two options: join the international community as a rational nation on a peaceful course, or continue down the current path which only promises more economic isolation and hardship.”
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the House passage of his legislation, H.R. 4744, the Iran Human Rights and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act. Specifically, this legislation states that Congress stands with the people of Iran, and it provides the Trump administration with the tools necessary to hold Iranian government officials responsible for human rights violations, corruption, and censorship. Moreover, this bill holds the Iranian regime accountable for taking American citizens and permanent residents hostage by sanctioning those who engage in this deplorable practice. Congressman McCaul: “I want to thank my colleagues for their overwhelming support of this critical piece of legislation. I urge the Senate to move this bill forward so we can send a clear signal to the corrupt regime in Iran that we will not tolerate the unjust, politically-motivated detention of our citizens, nor turn a blind eye to their oppressive behavior.” You can click here to watch Congressman McCaul’s floor remarks on his bill. Below are Congressman McCaul’s remarks as prepared: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge support for my bill to hold the Iranian regime accountable for its continued human rights violations. I introduced the Iran Human Rights and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act with Congressman Deutch. And I’m grateful for Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel’s support in this effort. The Iranian regime continues to perpetuate gross human rights abuses against its own people. They continue to suppress and censor their people’s calls for democratic reform. They recklessly use their nation’s resources to expand their destabilizing influence and support of terrorism. They continue to engage in corrupt practices. And they continue to illegally detain and imprison our citizens without just cause. This is simply unacceptable. Mr. Speaker, this bill serves as a clear signal to the people of Iran that we support their quest for freedom. It shines a light on the regime’s human rights violations. And targets Iranian officials guilty of corruption, censorship, and the diversion of goods intended for the Iranian people. It requires the President to work with our international partners to develop a strategy to end this inhumane behavior and sanctions those officials complicit in these crimes. Finally, it sanctions those individuals who take Americans hostage. Today, there are more than six American citizens and permanent U.S. residents held by the Iranian regime in a shameful attempt to use innocent human lives as political bargaining chips. These hostages include Bob Levinson, Congressman Deutch’s constituent who has been missing since 2007 and remains America's longest-held hostage; Siamak Namazi and his 81-year-old father Baquer, held since 2015 and 2016, respectively; PhD student Xiyue Wang, held since 2016; internet freedom activist Nizar Zakka, held since 2016; and others. The United States has a moral responsibility to devote resources to these hostages and make their return a priority. I sent a letter with Congressman Lieu requesting the administration to keep Congress informed as to what steps they are taking to guarantee this happens. I want to again thank Chairman Royce, Ranking Member Engel, and Congressman Deutch for their leadership to hold Iranian officials accountable. And with that, I yield back the balance of my time.
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the Senate confirmed Mike Pompeo to serve as the next Secretary of State. Congressman McCaul: “Our nation faces serious challenges that require strong diplomatic engagement and I know Secretary Mike Pompeo is ready and eager to lead. We have traveled together to some of the most dangerous hotspots around the world and he has proven that he is a true leader on U.S. foreign policy. I applaud the Senate for swiftly confirming my friend and former colleague Mr. Pompeo to be the next Secretary of State, and I look forward to working with him so we can continue to demonstrate that the world is a more peaceful and prosperous place when America leads from the front.”
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), with the support of the entire Texas delegation, applaud the House and Senate passage of their resolution to honor the incredible life of the late former First Lady Barbara Bush. Click here or see below for the text of the resolution: Honoring the life of First Lady Barbara Bush. Whereas Barbara Pierce was born on June 8, 1925, in New York City; Whereas Barbara Pierce became engaged to George Herbert Walker Bush and, while awaiting his return from combat during World War II, supported the war effort by working at a nuts and bolts factory in Port Chester, New York; Whereas Barbara Bush was married to President George H.W. Bush for 73 years, and together they had 2 daughters, 4 sons, 17 grandchildren, and 8 great-grand- children; Whereas as Second Lady of the United States, Barbara Bush became a passionate champion for family literacy and published ‘‘C. Fred’s Story: A Dog’s Life’’, which raised $100,000 for Literacy Volunteers of America and Laubach Literacy Action; Whereas, in January of 1983, Barbara Bush joined the board of the Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta, Georgia, and worked with Dr. Louis Sullivan to help raise $10 million for the school’s first capital campaign; Whereas First Lady Barbara Bush founded the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy in 1989, and over the course of 30 years raised more than $110 million to support family literacy programs in every State across America; Whereas while serving as First Lady, Barbara Bush visited facilities for AIDS victims and held infected babies and hugged adults, and in so doing, helped erase the stigma of that disease; Whereas, in 1991, Barbara Bush and other advocates worked for the passage of the National Literacy Act of 1991, which created the National Institute for Literacy and permitted the use of libraries and other municipal property as evening literacy centers for adults; Whereas after leaving the White House, Barbara Bush continued to support a broad range of important organizations and causes, including AmeriCares, the Mayo Clinic Foundation, the Leukemia Society of America, the Ronald McDonald House, and the Boys & Girls Club of America; Whereas three primary schools and two middle schools in Texas have been named for Barbara Bush, along with an elementary school in Mesa, Arizona, the Barbara Bush Library in Harris County, Texas, and the Barbara Bush Children’s Hospital at Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine; Whereas Barbara Bush shares the rare distinction with Abigail Adams of being both a wife to, and mother of, a President of the United States, and is also the mother of a Governor of Florida and a Governor of Texas; and Whereas Barbara Bush was a truly great American, First and Second Lady of the United States, literacy advocate, author, mother, and ‘‘Ganny’’: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) extends its sympathies to the family of Barbara Bush; and (2) honors the life of First Lady Barbara Bush and her contribution to the United States of America.
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Michael McCaul (R-TX), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Albio Sires (D-NJ), and Nita Lowey (D-NY) introduced H. Res. 835 yesterday, a resolution supporting robust bilateral relations with the State of Israel globally and fairness in its treatment in multilateral fora upon seventy years of statehood. The resolution highlights Israel’s recent advances in diplomacy, urges support for its bid for the United Nations Security Council and affirms the diplomatic recognition that America’s strategic ally deserves. Statement by Representative McCaul: “Since its creation in 1948, Israel has thrived in a region surrounded by few who recognize its existence as a state and enemies who issue threats of annihilation on a regular basis. The United States, through decades-long aid and assistance, has been instrumental in Israel’s success. I am proud to introduce this resolution with my colleagues in support of a continued robust bilateral relationship that sends a clear message to the world that the United States stands in lockstep with our strongest ally in a turbulent region.” Rep. McCaul is Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Statement by Representative Foxx: “May 14, 2018 marks the 70th anniversary of Israel’s independence and birth of the State of Israel; it also marks the beginning of a longstanding friendship between the U.S. and our strategic ally. I am proud to introduce this House resolution with my colleagues to honor this occasion and express Congress’ support for Israel’s bilateral relations and equitable treatment in international organizations. Respect for Israel’s national sovereignty and broad recognition of its statehood is crucial for advancing peace in the Middle East and is vital to U.S. national security. This resolution sends a clear message to the UN and the world that the U.S. will continue to stand by Israel as a trade partner, equal member state in all multilateral fora, ally and friend.” Rep. Foxx is Chairwoman of the House Education and the Workforce Committee and a member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Statement by Representative Sires: “I am pleased to introduce this timely House resolution with my colleagues to mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel, which has been a continued friend and ally to the United States. Israel has remained a stalwart of democracy and a beacon of hope for Jewish immigrants all over the world, and embraces the values, and freedoms that are the cornerstone of a vibrant democratic society. As the Middle East struggles with protracted conflicts and growing challenges, Israel continues to be an essential international partner and plays a critical role in promoting stability in the region and abroad. This resolution will reaffirm Congress’ steadfast commitment to Israel and our continued support for our ally, friend, and partner on the international stage.” Rep. Sires is a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and sits on the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. Statement by Representative Lowey: “As Israel celebrates the 70th anniversary of its founding, this resolution will act as a powerful reminder that the unbreakable U.S.-Israel relationship must be fundamentally grounded in bipartisanship and support for a negotiated two-state solution to the Middle East conflict.” Rep. Lowey is ranking member of the House Appropriations Committee and its Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations.
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX), - a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee - and Eliot Engel (D-NY) - Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee - introduced H.R. 5535, the Energy Diplomacy Act. This legislation requires the Secretary of State to ensure the State Department has sufficient staff dedicated to energy matters within the Department to protect and advance United States energy security interest abroad. Congressman McCaul: “Advancing America’s energy security is a critical aspect of U.S. foreign policy. Congress must ensure the State Department is properly staffed and authorized to execute strong policies to protect and promote our energy policies abroad. Under the direction of a new assistant secretary position, the State Department will have the leadership and personnel in place to execute a bold foreign policy that advances our nation’s international energy interests.” H.R. 5535 also authorizes the establishment of an assistant secretary to be responsible for: The development of energy resources for the benefit of the US and our allies and trading partners for their energy security and economic development needs. Ensuring a well-functioning global energy market. Ensuring the department is focused on helping resolve international disputes regarding the exploration, development, production, or distribution of energy resources. Ensuring we are protecting the commercial interest of U.S. citizens operating in the energy markers of foreign countries. The use of our energy resources to help alleviate energy poverty internationally. Ensuring coordination across the U.S. government is taking place in the development and implementation of international energy-related sanctions. Coordinating energy security functions within the department of State.
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) released the below statement regarding the passing of First Lady Barbara Bush. Congressman McCaul: “May Barbara Bush always be remembered for her incredible faith, unwavering loyalty, and deep love for her country and family. As First Lady, she focused on literacy, inspired many, and showed the entire nation the compassion that Texas has to offer. She was a shining example about what it meant to live life to the fullest and will be dearly missed. Linda and I send our prayers and deepest condolences to the entire Bush family.”
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after President Trump’s decision to authorize precision strikes against Syria. Congressman McCaul: “The most recent chemical attack in Syria was a barbaric slaughter that took the lives of innocent civilians, including women and children. The civilized world needed to act and I commend President Trump for leading this bold response. The airstrikes carried out by the United States and our allies demonstrate to dictators everywhere, that the use of weapons of mass destruction will not be tolerated. “For the sake of international peace and security, the evil regime in Damascus and its Russian and Iranian sponsors should heed this warning and immediately end their immoral and illegal acts of aggression. “May God bless all who serve in the United States military.”
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the statement below after Speaker Ryan’s announcement to not seek reelection in 2018. Congressman McCaul: “Paul has been a principled conservative since he first arrived to Washington as a staffer. Over his twenty years of public service, he has been a diligent legislator, a determined leader, and a committed friend. “Paul dedicated his legislative career to overhauling our broken tax code. Under his leadership, House Republicans passed the first comprehensive tax reform in three decades, delivering real relief to hardworking Americans across the country, but especially here at home in Texas. His steadfast leadership has also been crucial in rebuilding our broken military and restoring America’s leadership on the global stage. “As Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, Speaker Ryan has been a great partner in strengthening our homeland defenses, fighting terrorists at home and abroad, and instrumental in passing the first ever comprehensive reauthorization of the Department of Homeland Security. I look forward to continuing to work with Paul and others for the remainder of the year to finally secure our border and close our nation’s immigration loopholes. “As a husband and father of five, I understand the responsibilities that come with the office and balancing that with family life. While I am saddened by this news today, I wish Paul, his wife Janna, and kids Liza, Charlie, and Sam the best in their next chapter.”
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Representative Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, today joined with Cornelia Schmidt-Liermann, Chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies, and Silvia Lospennato, Chair of the U.S. Parliamentary Friendship Group, in urging Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra to seek a commitment from all leaders at the Summit of the Americas to open their countries to Venezuelan refugees. In a letter, the lawmakers also asked President Vizcarra to urge countries to assist efforts by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to provide protection to these individuals. The letter stated, “The Summit of the Americas presents a unique opportunity for heads of state from the Western Hemisphere to gather together and attempt to tackle the top challenges facing our nations. We urge you to use this gathering to seek a firm commitment from your counterparts to open their countries to Venezuelan refugees and to assist UNHCR efforts in the region. We stand ready both to support these efforts in the United States and Argentine Congresses and to encourage our partners from legislatures throughout the Western Hemisphere to do the same.” Copies of the letters are available in English and Spanish. Full text in English is below: Dear President Vizcarra, As leaders in the United States and Argentine legislatures concerned with the worsening humanitarian crisis in Venezuela, we urge you to utilize the upcoming Summit of the Americas to develop a path forward for the thousands of refugees fleeing their country. Specifically, we respectfully ask you to seek a commitment from your counterparts at the Summit to both open their countries to Venezuelan refugees and to assist efforts by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to provide protection to these individuals. More than 1.5 million Venezuelans are currently displaced in the Americas with a 2000 percent increase in asylum claims since 2014. A recent report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) explains, “Almost 90 percent of Venezuela’s population has dropped below the poverty line, and the middle class has virtually disappeared. Unable to eat more than one meal a day, the average Venezuelan has lost 24 pounds in the last year.” Medical shortages are also the norm with CSIS stating, “Pharmacies have a shortage of approximately 85 percent of drugs, and hospitals receive less than a tenth of the basic supplies and medicines they need to operate.” UNHCR recently put out an appeal for $46 million to respond to the needs of Venezuelans arriving to neighboring countries. This funding would be focused on six priorities: (1) Preparing for heightened outflows; (2) Making protection and assistance needs understood; (3) Strengthening national asylum systems; (4) Protecting the most vulnerable individuals; (5) Preparing short to medium term solutions on social inclusion and access to work; and (6) communicating with national and regional actors to combat discrimination and xenophobia and create awareness among Venezuelans of their rights and responsibilities. The Summit of the Americas presents a unique opportunity for heads of state from the Western Hemisphere to gather together and attempt to tackle the top challenges facing our nations. We urge you to use this gathering to seek a firm commitment from your counterparts to open their countries to Venezuelan refugees and to assist UNHCR efforts in the region. We stand ready both to support these efforts in the United States and Argentine Congresses and to encourage our partners from legislatures throughout the Western Hemisphere to do the same. Thank you for your attention to this urgent matter. Sincerely,
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the Treasury Department announced the latest sanctions against Russian oligarchs, officials, and entities. Congressman McCaul: “Russian oligarchs serve as the key benefactors for Vladimir Putin’s corruption and violation of international norms and standards. These corrupt individuals have engaged in threatening activities across the world, including actively supporting Russia’s destabilization of Ukraine and Syria, as well as other hostile actions against U.S. national security interests. I applaud the administration’s efforts to impose sanctions on these thugs. It is imperative that we continue to send the message that we will no longer tolerate Russia’s malign activities.” ###
04.05.2018	WASHINGTON— Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX) sent a bipartisan letter on March 23, 2018 to universities in Texas hosting Confucius Institutes, including Texas A&M University, University of Texas at Dallas, University of Texas at San Antonio, and Texas Southern University. Reps. McCaul and Cuellar released the following joint statement: “We strongly urge these universities to consider terminating their partnerships with Confucius Institutes and other Chinese government supported organizations. These organizations are a threat to our nation’s security by serving as a platform for China’s intelligence collection and political agenda. We have a responsibility to uphold our American values of free expression, and to do whatever is necessary to counter any behavior that poses a threat to our democracy.” Click here or see below the open letter to universities and educational institutions considering hosting Confucius Institutes or other Chinese government supported organizations on their campuses. Dear Presidents of Texas Colleges, Universities, and Other Educational Institutions, We write to express our deep concerns of Chinese government influence on your campus. Confucius Institutes and other Chinese government supported academic organizations, such as the China-United States Exchange Foundation, are intended to spread China's political agenda, suppress academic debate, and steal vital academic research. Confucius Institutes were launched by the Chinese Communist Party's United Front Work Department. The United Front Work Department's goals are to "win support for China's political agenda, accumulate influence overseas and gather key information." Confucius Institutes are overseen by the Hanban (the Office of Chinese Language Council International) inside China's Ministry of Education. It was led by China's Vice Premier Liu Yandong, who also led the United Front Work Department when the program began. The Hanban's governing council is composed of 12 Chinese government ministries, including the State Council (chief administrative authority of the Chinese government), the State Press and Publications Administration (the state-run media and propaganda department), and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Confucius Institutes require an adherence to Chinese law, and are used as a platform for China to combat its Five Poisons, among other suppressive actions. In 2010, China's minister of propaganda declared, "We should actively carry out international propaganda battles against issuers such as Tibet, Xinjiang, Taiwan, human rights and Falun Gong. We should do well in establishing and operating overseas cultural centers and Confucius Institutes." In a 2011 speech, a standing member of the Chinese Communist Party's Politburo avowed, "the Confucius Institute... has made an important contribution toward improving our soft power. The 'Confucius' brand has a natural attractiveness. Using the excuse of teaching Chinese language, everything looks reasonable and logical.” Fortunately, the U.S. Intelligence Community and your peer academic institutions are recognizing this threat. The FBI Director recently informed Congress that the FBI is investigating some Confucius Institutes on university campuses. There are currently more than 100 Confucius Institutes in the United States, approximately 40% in the world. Additionally, leading universities in the United States, including the University of Texas at Austin, and across the globe have severed their relationships with Chinese government supported organizations recognizing that their academic integrity could be compromised and research could be stolen. This kind of malicious behavior is consistent with their history of harming American innovation and theft of our intellectual property. In February, FBI Director Christopher Wray testified to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence that the FBI has "concerns about the Confucius Institutes," and is investigating them as a result. Director Wray warned about the use of non-traditional intelligence collection from China; he stated they are "exploiting the very open research and development environment we have, which we all revere, but they're taking advantage of it." Also in February, the University of West Florida announced its plans to ends its agreement with its Confucius Institute, following the receipt of a concerned letter from Senator Marco Rubio. In January, the University of Texas at Austin rejected a proposal from the China United States Exchange Foundation (CUSEF). The CUSEF is connected to the United Front Work Department. In 2014, both the University of Chicago and Pennsylvania State University ended their relationship with their Confucius Institutes. Other leading international universities have also ended their relationships with the institutes, including Japan's Osaka Sangyo University, Canada's McMaster University and Universite de Sherbrooke, France's University of Lyon, Germany's Stuttgart Media University and University of Hohenheim, and Sweden's Stockholm University. In light of China's subversive behavior and malicious intent to suppress our American values of free expression, speech and debate, we respectfully and strongly urge you to consider terminating your Confucius Institute and other agreements with Chinese government supported organizations. Should you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact our offices. Thank you for your time and consideration of this extremely important matter.
04.04.2018	Washington D.C. - Today, House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the heels of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) announcement to deploy the National Guard to the southern border in an effort to mitigate the growing threat of illegal immigrants, drugs, and crime. Chairman McCaul: “Americans deserve secure borders and the deployment of the National Guard is a positive step toward providing the safety this nation has long demanded. However, Congress still must act. We have a historic opportunity to keep this promise to the American people. Fixing our broken immigration system and closing dangerous loopholes prevent drugs, gangs, and terrorists from pouring across our borders. At the beginning of this year, I introduced carefully crafted legislation that combines enforcement measures and increased border security to enhance public safety, ensure the door remains open to law-abiding immigrants, and restores the rule of law. It also authorizes use of the National Guard along the southern border to help construct physical barriers and provide aviation and intelligence support. “The measures implemented today by the Department of Homeland Security will take important steps to keep our country safer. I remain committed to working with my colleagues in Congress, President Trump, and his Administration to implement tougher and more effective border security and immigration laws. We will stop at nothing to protect our homeland and the American people.”
03.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced that his office will begin accepting submissions for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Congressman McCaul: “The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to showcase the artistic talent among students throughout Texas’s 10th Congressional District, and each year I continue to be impressed by the quality of work we receive. I look forward to seeing this year’s entries and encourage all high school age students to consider submitting their artwork for the chance to have their work showcased for a national audience.” The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students residing in the 10th Congressional District. The winning piece will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol along with other winners from across the country. The winner will receive two complimentary airline tickets to Washington, D.C. to view the exhibit and will also be invited to a reception for all of the winners across the nation. The second place artwork will be on display in one of our four district offices. McCaul’s office will also award the People’s Choice Award; images of the artwork will be posted on McCaul’s Facebook page, and fans will have the opportunity to vote until May 8, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. CT. The student whose artwork receives the highest number of “likes” will be designated the winner of the People’s Choice Award. Artwork entered in the contest may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches (including the frame) and may be up to 4 inches in depth and weigh up to 15 pounds. All entries must be two-dimensional and original in concept, design and execution. Eligible types of art include paintings, drawing, prints, collages, mixed media, computer generated art, and photography. Find more information and guidelines here. Artwork can be delivered to any of McCaul’s offices - Austin, Brenham, Katy, or Tomball - by April 27, 2018. Please call the office beforehand to coordinate drop-off. Background The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in Texas’s 10th district and throughout the country. Since it began in 1982 as an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. For more information, please contact McCaul’s Austin office at (512) 473-2357 or visit our website at McCaul.house.gov. On the website, you will find the guidelines as well as the student release form.
03.28.2018	Washington, D.C. - Under the leadership of Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), the House Homeland Security Committee has prioritized cybersecurity legislation over the last several years and has taken strong, bipartisan action. The Omnibus spending bill included vital provisions to strengthen our nation’s cyber defenses and enhance the resilience of our critical infrastructure, including electoral infrastructure, through additional funding to DHS’ National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD). The omnibus also included $380 million in grant money to the Election Assistance Commission for states to improve the administration of elections, including election technology. While these actions will do much to improve our cybersecurity capabilities, there is more work to be done. Chairman McCaul’s bipartisan House-passed legislation, H.R. 3359, will elevate vital cybersecurity and critical infrastructure-related authorities by streamlining the current structure of the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) and re-designating it as the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). Of note, this legislation moves certain offices to other parts of the Department of Homeland Security so it can better execute its core missions. Chairman McCaul: “With the advancement of technology and our increased dependence on computer networks, nation states, hackers, and cybercriminals are finding new ways to target our critical infrastructure. To ensure the continued success and strength of DHS’ cyber mission, we must remain laser focused to more effectively streamline and enhance vital cybersecurity operations. H.R. 3359 will achieve DHS’s longstanding goal of creating a stand-alone operational organization, better focused on its vital missions to strengthen the security of federal networks and our nation’s critical infrastructure, including electoral, while bolstering our civilian cyber-defenses. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Congress and the Administration to get this to the President’s desk as soon as we can.” NOTE: Watch Chairman McCaul’s Floor remarks on H.R. 3359, here.
03.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – This week, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5074, the DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams Act of 2018, under the leadership of Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) in addition to seven other pieces of bipartisan legislation to strengthen our homeland security. Additional Committee bills on the House floor this week seek to strengthen aviation security, enhance counterterrorism efforts, and address numerous recommendations made by the Committee in its 2017 report reviewing the National Network of Fusion Centers. Chairman McCaul: “America must continue to evolve and improve our defenses to ensure we are one step ahead of the dangers facing the homeland. My bill, H.R. 5074, supports an additional line of defense by ensuring DHS has cyber incident response teams to assist the private sector in identifying, responding to, and mitigating cybersecurity threats. This innovative approach serves as a force multiplier to enhance our cybersecurity workforce. This bill, along with the seven other bipartisan bills that passed the House this week, are unified in their purpose of improving our nation’s preparedness.” Legislation passed this week includes: H.R. 4227, the Vehicular Terrorism Prevention Act of 2017, sponsored by Rep. Latta (R-OH), directs the Secretary to examine the threat of vehicular terrorism and develop a strategy to improve DHS support for the efforts of emergency responders and the private sector to prevent, mitigate and respond to such a threat. This bill is a response to the recent vehicular terror attacks (Barcelona, Nice, London, NYC, and Ohio) and how to better combat this threat. H.R. 4467, the Strengthening Aviation Security Act of 2017, sponsored by Rep. Hice (R-GA), ensures that TSA utilizes risk-based strategies when allocating Federal Air Marshals on international and domestic passenger flights in order to increase the effectiveness of the program. In September 2017, GAO reported that TSA does not measure data on the effectiveness and deterrence value of Federal Air Marshals. This is a major problem for accountability—Federal Air Marshals deployment cost taxpayers $800 million in fiscal year 2015—as well as for the value of the program itself, where the primary goal is to deter threats and minimize risk to passengers and crew. H.R. 5079, the DHS Field Engagement Accountability Act, sponsored by Rep. Bacon (R-NE), requires the Secretary to develop a DHS-wide fusion center engagement strategy, ensure metrics are in place to hold field personnel from the Office of Intelligence and Analysis (I&A) accountable for their performance at fusion centers, and leverage the Homeland Security Information Network (HSIN) to promote greater engagement between DHS components and fusion centers. H.R. 5099, the Enhancing DHS’ Fusion Center Technical Assistance Program, sponsored by Rep. Estes (R-KS), authorizes and enhances the Department of Homeland Security’s fusion center technical assistance program. The program is required to focus on providing the 79 fusion centers across the United States with technical assistance regarding intelligence and information sharing, terrorism prevention activities and the State Homeland Security Grant Program and the Urban Area Security Initiative grant program. H.R. 5074, the DHS Cyber Incident Response Teams Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. McCaul (R-TX), codifies and shapes the cyber incident response teams at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). These teams will exist within the National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center (NCCIC) at DHS and provide assistance and support to asset owners and operators following a cyber-incident. This legislation codifies an existing program and adds the flexibility to allow for private sector cybersecurity experts to operate on the cyber incident response teams. H.R. 4176, the Air Cargo Security Improvement Act of 2017, sponsored by Rep. Thompson (D-MS), establishes the air cargo security division within TSA to carry out all air cargo security policy and stakeholder engagement. It also requires the TSA Administrator to conduct a feasibility study—and a subsequent pilot program—on expanding the use of computed tomography (CT) and other emerging technology for air cargo screening. Lastly, the bill requires a review of the Certified Cargo Screening Program and the Known Shipper Program. H.R. 5089, the Strengthening Local Transportation Security Capabilities Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. Barragán (D-CA), requires the DHS Secretary to prioritize the assignment of officers and intelligence analysts from TSA and the DHS Office of Intelligence and Analysis (I&A) to fusion centers in jurisdictions with high-risk surface transportation assets, in order to participate in the generation and dissemination of intelligence products; and make security clearances available to appropriate stakeholders. It also requires the TSA Administrator to make available a framework for establishing an integrated and unified operations center that oversees the daily operations of a transportation facility. Lastly, this bill enables the Secretary to develop a training program through the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) to enhance the protection, preparedness, and response capabilities of law enforcement agencies for terrorism incidents at surface transportation assets. H.R. 5131, the Surface Transportation Security Improvement Act of 2018, sponsored by Rep. Watson Coleman (D-NJ), requires a GAO review of the national strategy for transportation security; the development of risk-based priorities for all transportation modes; a feasibility assessment of utilizing security technologies for surface transportation assets; the dissemination of best practices for enhancing security against vehicle-based terrorist attacks; the authorization of the Innovation Task Force (ITF); a threat assessment of certain security technologies tied to foreign countries; and a strategy for surface transportation inspectors. NOTE: Watch Chairman McCaul’s floor remarks on H.R. 5074. # # #
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following the passage of H.R. 1625 Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018. This legislation funds FY18 at levels consistent with the Bipartisan Budget Agreement and NDAA. This bill prioritizes funding for our national defense and non-defense priorities, including law enforcement, nuclear security, NIH, transportation and rural infrastructure, veterans care, and to combat opioids. Congressman McCaul: “As Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, I am all too familiar with the grave threats facing our nation. That is why we must continue to provide the resources to best protect the American people from the constantly-changing threat landscape at home and abroad. Today’s bill does just that – it allocates funds to improve our national defense and provides critical investments to defend our homeland. Specifically, we are fulfilling our pledge to rebuild our nation’s military by delivering the largest increase in defense funding in 15 years coupled with the largest pay raise for our service men and women in eight years, while also starting the construction of the wall on our southern border. In addition, we took vital steps today to help Texans recover after Harvey, prevent future natural disasters from wreaking havoc on our communities, bolster school safety, intensify our fight against the opioid epidemic, and fortify America’s crumbling infrastructure.” Below are some of the specifics included in H.R. 1625: Defense: Consistent with the NDAA, $659.6 billion is funded for our national defense, $61 billion over last year, and is critical to rebuild the readiness of our military. Also key, is that our troops receive a 2.4% pay raise. Border Wall: $1.571 billion is included for border wall assets and infrastructure. This includes 25 miles of new levee wall in TX, 8 miles of new bollard wall in TX, and $196 million in border technology. This is an important investment to secure our Southern Border. TSA: $7.2 billion total for TSA; $167 million for procurement, including $64 million for accelerated acquisition and deployment of Computed Tomography Technology to boost aviation security technology. Law Enforcement: funding increases to give more tools to help the men and women who protect Americans on a day-to-day basis. Increases funding for 100 immigration judge teams. Fully funds the FBI's National Instant Criminal Background Check System. Veterans: $81.5 billion for the VA to provide the necessary modernization to reduce backlogs and fulfill unfunded requirements. Infrastructure: Over $21 billion for America’s infrastructure to repair our nation’s bridges and roads. NIH: $37 billion for NIH, a $3 billion increase over FY17 to fund additional research and development. Opioids: $4 billion to combat the opioid crisis and address prevention, treatment, and enforcement. School Safety: Over $2.3 billion in new funding for mental health, training, and school safety efforts to keep our kids and schools safe. The bill also provides local schools law enforcement, school personnel, and students with the tools they need to proactively prevent any threats to schools. Maintains all provisions to preserve Second Amendment rights. National Flood Insurance Program is extended through July 31, 2018. Funds FEMA’s disaster relief account (DRF) at a total of $7.9 billion and provides $249.2 million for Predisaster Mitigation grants. Reauthorizes the NICS (the National Instant Criminal Background Check System) Improvement Act. This will ensure federal and state authorities comply with existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to NICS so we can better prevent criminals and domestic abusers from obtaining firearms. Taylor Force Act – cuts off assistance that directly benefits the Palestinian Authority unless the PA takes credible steps to stop acts of violence and end payments for acts of terrorism. ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the committee passage of his legislation, H.R. 4744, the Iran Human Rights and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act. Specifically, this legislation states that Congress stands with the people of Iran, and it provides the Trump administration with the tools necessary to hold Iranian government officials responsible for human rights violations, corruption, and censorship. Moreover, it holds the Iranian regime accountable for taking American citizens and permanent residents hostage by ensuring those responsible pay an extreme price. Congressman McCaul: “I want to thank my colleagues on the House Foreign Affairs Committee for their support in passing this critical piece of legislation. I look forward to getting this legislation to the House floor so we can hold the Iranian regime accountable for their gross human rights violations.” You can click here to watch Congressman McCaul’s committee remarks on his bill. Below are Congressman McCaul’s remarks as prepared: Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Engel, Thank you for holding today’s markup and including my bill to hold Iranian regime accountable. I introduced H.R. 4744, the Iran Human Rights and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act, with Mr. Deutch and am grateful to have the support of you and Ranking Member Engel. The Iranian regime continues to perpetuate gross human rights abuses against its own people. They continue to suppress the country’s voices for reform through censorship of the media. They continue to recklessly use the nation’s resources to expand its regional influence through its support for terrorist groups. They continue to engage in corrupt practices. And they continue to illegally detain and imprison our citizens without just cause or reason. This is unacceptable. Mr. Chairman, my bill serves as a clear signal to the people of Iran that we support them in their quest for freedom. My bill shines a light on the regime’s human rights violations and sanctions those who are complicit in such crimes. The same goes for Iranian officials guilty of corruption, censorship, and the diversion of goods intended for the Iranian people. Lastly, my bill sanctions individuals complicit in taking Americans and other nation’s citizen's hostage and requires the President to work with our international partners to develop a strategy to put an end to this practice. We have five Americans currently detained in Iran. This is intolerable. We must do all we can, and apply as much pressure on Iran as necessary to ensure their safe release, and prevent future Americans from being held hostage by this brutal regime. Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Engel, thank you for leadership on this committee to hold Iran’s corrupt officials accountable. I urge all of my colleagues to support this bill’s passage, and the passage of all the important measure before us today. Thank you.
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, a bipartisan group of House members introduced legislation to promote more effective development in fragile and unstable countries, addressing the conditions that create safe havens for terrorists, criminal networks, and war lords. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act would require the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to ramp up coordination with the Departments of State and Defense to develop a global initiative aimed at preventing the root causes of violence and instability in countries around the world. The bill was introduced in the House by Representatives Michael McCaul (R-TX), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ted Poe (R-TX), Adam Smith (D-WA), Bill Keating (D-MA), and Paul Cook (R-CA). “We cannot relent in our efforts to deny extremist groups territory from which they can conduct operations against the United States and the West. As ISIS and other terror groups and individuals spread violence and hatred in societies across the globe, it is clear that denying safe havens is simply not enough. Therefore, those charged with combatting terror around the world must be able to evolve with the dynamic and evolving threat landscape. This legislation requires the relevant governmental agencies to produce an integrated strategy to keep terrorists off the battlefield by drying up the unstable, fertile ground from which they recruit — a process I call ‘deny and dry.’ This bill will also proactively prioritize the resources necessary to eradicate terror hot spots and ensure we accomplish our goal of a more peaceful and stable world,” said Rep. McCaul, Chair of the Committee on Homeland Security. “The United States has been at war for 16 years and has spent decades more working to stabilize fragile countries. This bill would make us take a hard look at what’s working and what isn’t, and help relevant agencies work more closely to tackle this challenge. After all, when we help countries become stronger and more stable, we make it harder for terrorists, criminals, and other violent groups to put down roots. That makes the United States and our partners safer,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. “I’m pleased to join with this group of lawmakers that spans the aisle to offer this measure and I hope the House acts on it soon.” “With the rise of modern terrorism, fragile and failing states have become breeding grounds for radicalism and terrorist activity, directly threatening the national security of the United States. We must spend our already existing foreign assistance money more effectively, preventing states from failing in the first place. This allows us to later avoid undertaking costly military and nation-building interventions where terrorist find safe haven. Using the lessons we have learned over the last two decades, we must require our government develop long-term strategies to address conditions which lead to violent failed states, ultimately weaning them off American aid. The bipartisan Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act will ensure our taxpayer money is spent on carefully planned strategies that contribute to our national security and reduce violence abroad,” said Rep. Poe, Chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. “Around the world, instability in the form of conflict, famine, or disease sends millions of people fleeing from their homes annually. We are in the midst of an unprecedented global refugee crisis, with nations across the globe grappling with how to respond. The United States has a proud history of leading the international community in helping others during times of strife – however it is essential that our bodies of government that carry out these missions coordinate with one another. This legislation represents a significant first step in bringing the defense, diplomatic, and development communities of the United States to the same table, working to help answer the challenges of poverty and violence overseas,” said Rep. Smith, Ranking Member of the Committee on Armed Services. “Instability breeds insecurity, and the more instability there is in the world, the longer we will continue to see extremism take hold in communities,” said Rep. Keating, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and Co-Chair of the Congressional Counterterrorism Caucus. “Based on everything we’ve learned over the decades we’ve been combatting terrorism, assisting countries struggling with instability is our greatest opportunity to eliminate the threat of violence. This bill is a critical first step in building a strategy to tackle this challenge more effectively through long-term investments to strengthen and secure communities, helping countries become more resilient to extremism.” Violence and violent conflict have become the leading causes of displacement worldwide, resulting in an unprecedented 66 million forcibly displaced people, while preventable violence kills at least 1.4 million people annually. Containing violence costs the global economy $14.3 trillion a year (13.4% of world GDP). US National Security Strategies over the past 15 years affirm that America has a national security interest in better preventing and mitigating violence, violent conflict, and fragility. Lessons learned over the past 20 years show that doing so will require more clearly defined goals, strategies, and interagency coordination. The Global Fragility and Violence Reduction Act would charge USAID and the State and Defense Departments with designating 10 pilot countries from several regions of the world and implementing 10-year plans for addressing violence and fragility in those countries. The bill requires these agencies and departments to apply lessons learned and robust standards for measuring effectiveness and to adapt their efforts based on results. It also requires a mid-term evaluation by the Government Accountability Office, to provide an outside perspective on additional areas of improvement. # # #
03.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the heels of the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s announcement to sanction entities and individuals for interference with the 2016 U.S. elections and other malicious cyber-attacks. Chairman McCaul: “Russia’s attempts to target America’s elections and other critical infrastructure sectors with cyber weapons must not go unpunished. We can no longer tolerate Russia’s actions that harm the United States and its allies through cyberspace. As I have consistently said, Russia is not our friend and can’t be trusted. I commend the Administration for leveling these new sanctions against Russia and sending a message that we will respond when attacked.” ###
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following the announcement of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s departure. Congressman McCaul: “From Texan to Texan, I thank Secretary Tillerson for his sacrifice and service and wish him well in his future endeavors. I have personally known Director Pompeo for years and traveled with him to some of the world’s terrorist hot spots - he is a true leader on U.S. foreign policy. There remain serious challenges ahead that require strong diplomatic engagement on the international stage and I look forward to working with Mike Pompeo as our next Secretary of State.”
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following tonight’s announcement that Kim Jong Un is seeking a summit. Congressman McCaul: “Diplomacy as a means to a peaceful solution to the North Korean nuclear crisis is welcomed and should be supported. But the reality is North Korea's track record of deceit is not lost on Congress nor this administration. As such, any talk of peace must translate into an end of the Kim regime's destabilizing activities, and denuclearization, coupled with strong international verification to ensure the regime is acting in good faith. In the meantime, President Trump and his administration must stand firm in not providing an ounce of economic relief to North Korea until it has proven themselves trustworthy, and that their diplomatic overtures are genuine and will result in a stable, denuclearized peninsula.” Read McCaul’s latest op-ed on North Korea here.
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Joaquin Castro (TX-20), members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced H.R. 5167, the Foreign Service Officer Civil Relief Act. This legislation allows our Foreign Service Officers (FSO) to receive the same benefits offered to our military men and women. Specifically, it permits FSOs to terminate personal cell phone contracts, as well as domestic housing and vehicle leases while deployed abroad. Congressman McCaul: “Unlike our men and women in the military deployed abroad, our nation’s diplomats across the globe are not afforded the ability to terminate costly contracts they entered into prior to deployment. However, just like our military personnel, Foreign Service Officers are working around the clock in defense of our nation’s security and should not be burdened by the additional costs of housing leases for a residence they can’t live in, leases on a car they can’t drive, or a contract for a cell phone they can’t use. Our legislation addresses this issue by providing the financial relief our FSOs serving bravely abroad deserve.” Congressman Castro: “America’s Foreign Service Officers dedicate their lives to advance U.S. leadership abroad in more than 270 embassies, consulates, and other missions in some of the most dangerous parts of the world. Unlike U.S. military personnel, our nation’s frontline civilians are not able to cancel domestic contracts while deployed overseas, forcing them to incur steep costs while serving our country. That’s why Rep. McCaul and I introduced the Foreign Service Officer Civil Relief Act, which provides financial relief to our FSOs so they can terminate personal cell phone contracts or domestic housing and vehicle leases while deploying abroad. These diplomats work to defend the United States and our interests abroad and deserve the full support of their government for the work they do on behalf of our beloved country.”
03.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today released March’s Terror Threat Snapshot, a monthly assessment of the Committee’s continuing effort to highlight the growing threat America, the West, and the world face from ISIS and other Islamist terrorists. Chairman McCaul: “ISIS remains a dynamic and continuing threat to the West and the homeland. The recent State Department terrorist designations of several ISIS-affiliated groups and key leaders from around the world will help degrade ISIS’ global network by denying them the resources to spread hatred and terror. We must redouble our efforts to deny terrorist entry into America by better working with our allies and ensuring our vetting efforts are as streamlined and effective as possible.” Key Points The U.S. Department of State designated seven ISIS-affiliated groups as Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTO) and two ISIS-affiliated individuals as Specially Designated Global Terrorists (SDGT). The groups are ISIS-West Africa, ISIS-Philippines, ISIS-Bangladesh, ISIS-Somalia, ISIS-Egypt, Jund al-Khilafah-Tunisia, and the Maute Group. The individuals are Mahad Moalim and Abu Musab al-Barnawi. The designation as a SDGT and FTO prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in transactions with them, and their assets subject to U.S. jurisdiction were blocked and seized. Assisting them with any material support is now criminal as well. In a continuing effort to cut off terrorist financing opportunities, the U.S. Department of the Treasury imposed sanctions on six people and seven entities responsible for funding Hezbollah. Most of them are tied to Adham Tabaj, one of the terrorist group’s top financiers, and his company Al-Inmaa Engineering and Contracting. The firms are located in Sierra Leone, Liberia, Lebanon, and Ghana. As ISIS loses its geographic presence, fighters continue to return to their home countries. Russia had the highest number of fighters go to Syria and Iraq with an estimated 3,417, and 400 have returned. Saudi Arabia was next with roughly 3,244, of which 760 have returned. Jordan was third with approximately 3,000, of which 250 have returned. Tunisia followed with 2,926, of which 800 have returned. France was fifth with 1,910, of which 271 have returned, according to a report from The Soufan Center. Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh, the last two of the notorious ISIS group referred to as “The Beatles” were captured by Syrian Kurd forces in eastern Syria. The group was responsible for several high-profile executions, including Alan Henning, James Foley, Steven Sotloff. Mohammed Emwazi, aka Jihadi John, was killed in a U.S. airstrike in Raqqa. The fourth member, Aine Lesley Davis, was arrested in Turkey, and is currently imprisoned. The complete March Terror Threat Snapshot is available, here. View the Committee’s interactive Terror Threat Snapshot, here.
02.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the State Department’s terrorist designations of key ISIS-affiliates and leaders across the globe. Chairman McCaul: “Even after the collapse of the so-called caliphate, ISIS remains a dynamic and credible threat to the West and America—continuing to inspire and radicalize people over the internet in the homeland and abroad. The two terror attacks in New York City late last year are stark reminders of their reach. I commend the State Department on their continued vigilance in identifying the spread of ISIS-affiliated groups and key leaders around the world. These new designations will help degrade ISIS’ global network by denying them the resources they rely on to spread terror.” ###
02.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following the Treasury Department’s announcement of sanctions against the North Korean regime: Congressman McCaul: “Despite their ongoing propaganda charade at the Winter Olympics, North Korea has no interest in ending its destabilizing behavior and abuse of its citizens. Today, the Treasury Department announced the largest sanctions yet against Pyongyang for their illicit nuclear program and dangerous ballistic missile advancements. These sanctions will expose and degrade vital sources of funding by targeting fuel exports, vessels, shipping companies, and other entities that allow them to evade current sanctions and fund their rogue activities. I hope President Trump will continue to increase pressure and use all options available to end North Korean nuclear adventurism and threats against the United States and our allies.” ###
02.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement regarding the indictment of thirteen Russians and three Russian entities who were indicted for allegedly interfering in the 2016 U.S. election: Chairman McCaul: “The alleged actions laid out in the indictments are a direct assault against our people and our democracy. As I have said many times before, Russia is not our friend and this is another concrete example of their destabilizing actions. We cannot allow anyone to undermine the confidence in our electoral process. We must extradite these Russians so that they can be held accountable and prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.” ###
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement on the disconnect between FBI and local law enforcement in the Parkland, Florida shooting. Congressman McCaul: “Congress has a strong responsibility to conduct oversight over all federal agencies, especially those tasked with the safety and security of our nation. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, my top priority has always been the protection of the American people and I have worked closely with law enforcement officials at every level of government to achieve this goal. The FBI made a huge error in not following up on the tip. As a result, 17 families and the entire Parkland, Florida community are suffering in a way no one should ever have to endure. My thoughts and prayers go out to all the families who were impacted by this senseless tragedy. It is critical that Congress investigate why protocols at the FBI were not followed and why they failed to share information with local law enforcement that could’ve prevented this attack. The grieving families in Florida and Americans around the country deserve nothing less.” ###
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier this week, House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul's (R-TX) bill to combat human trafficking was signed into law (P.L. 115-125) by President Trump. This bipartisan bill helps protect victims of human trafficking by providing the right tools to federal, state, and local law enforcement, as well as private sector organizations to increase awareness to help stop this heinous threat. Chairman McCaul: “We must do everything in our power to combat human trafficking, uphold human rights, and prevent our citizens from becoming victims of this heinous crime. The Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act will better equip DHS to partner, educate, and coordinate efforts and intelligence sharing on multiple levels. It will provide resources to help deter, detect, and mitigate instances of human trafficking in our country. It will also safeguard victims and help raise public awareness of the threat human trafficking poses to our communities. I am confident this bill will help protect our citizens and children from being exploited.” Official White House Photo by Shealah Craighead ###
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced the Improving Embassy Design and Security Act of 2018 to streamline embassy and consulate design and construction. This bill will prioritize the buildings’ security and cut unnecessary waste in designing and constructing American facilities abroad. Congressman McCaul: “The attacks on U.S. buildings in Benghazi, Beirut, Nairobi, Dar es Salaam remind us of the dangers our diplomatic and military service members abroad face every day. We owe it to our brave men and women overseas to provide them with safe and functional workplaces in a timely fashion so we can prevent attacks like these in the future. Unfortunately, Design Excellence, implemented by the Obama administration to construct embassies overseas, shifted away from that core focus in favor of complex architectural design and costly building materials. My bill prioritizes the security and quality of our diplomatic facilities, while also cutting bloated costs and inefficient processes in embassy design and construction.” # # #
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, introduced the Protecting Diplomats from Surveillance Through Consumer Devices Act (H.R. 4989) to require the Department of State to account for location-tracking consumer devices in the broader U.S. embassy and consulate security policies. Congressmen McCaul and Castro: “Every day, diplomats work to advance the interests of the United States often at embassies and consulates in the most dangerous pockets of the world. They risk their lives to be our nation’s frontline civilians, and are faced with having to adapt to changing technologies that often come with security risks—including location-tracking consumer devices that reveal movements around the world. That’s why we introduced the Protecting Diplomats from Surveillance Through Consumer Devices Act, which requires the State Department to account for these devices in the security policies of U.S. embassies and consulates worldwide. As lawmakers, we have a moral responsibility to take all necessary steps to ensure these brave diplomats and development workers have the protections they deserve.” H.R.4989 can be found here. # # #
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauded the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act. Congressman McCaul: “I was proud to cast my vote today to keep our government open and fund our military. Holding this critical funding for our troops hostage is reckless and unacceptable. In fact, our Secretary of Defense James Mattis has said, “no enemy in the field has done more to harm the readiness of the U.S. military than the [military cuts we experienced under President Obama].” Thankfully, today, Congress passed a budget agreement to end the harmful sequester so we can provide assurances to our brave men and women in uniform and rebuild our military capabilities and readiness. “This package also provides $89.3 billion in long-delayed and much needed disaster relief funding for those affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. The House passed legislation last December to provide those still struggling to rebuild their lives with the resources they need, but it is has been stalled in the Senate. With this bill, Texas and other impacted areas will finally receive significant federal help to rebuild, including $17.39 billion in Army Corp funding to help build our flood mitigation projects and prevent future flood disasters. “Since day one, I have been working tirelessly to provide federal assistance to those affected by Hurricane Harvey. I am glad to see our budget agreement pass today to provide serious relief to Texans in need. We must continue to put the safety and security of the American people above all else.” The Bipartisan Budget Act: Provides an additional $80+ billion in an emergency disaster aid package for recovery efforts across the country to rebuild affected communities after Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. This includes money for the Disaster Relief Fund, Army Corps of Engineers, Agriculture, SBA disaster loans, Federal Highways, and Housing; Provides $700 billion in total defense funding for FY18 (this is consistent with the enacted FY18 NDAA), and $716 billion in total defense funding for FY19; Directs non-defense funding to support NIH research, combat opioids, reduce the VA healthcare maintenance backlog, and invest in infrastructure; Reauthorizes Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for 10 years; Repeals Obamacare’s Independent Review Action Board (IPAB). ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the declassification and release of a memo on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) prepared by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) majority. Congressman McCaul: “As a former federal prosecutor who worked directly with FISA applications, I am always concerned when there are allegations of impropriety or violations of civil liberties during this process. FISA is critical to the safety and security of our people and has saved many American lives. “As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, I have always had the upmost respect for the Department of Justice, the FBI, and all of our brave men and women in law enforcement who sacrifice so much to keep America safe. I would never support releasing a memo meant to attack the credibility of these vital institutions. “However, with such immense power there is a high obligation for genuine accountability. Because I believe the public has a fundamental right to know, I am in favor of releasing this memo, in order to ensure we always maintain the integrity of our democratic institutions and the accountability of those who serve. “Upon reading the memo produced by the majority of the House Intelligence Committee, I was disturbed to find that the information included in the FISA application was unverified. At this time, it does not appear that the FISA court was aware that the source was based on a document politically-designed to bring down a presidential candidate – to me, this is the most troubling discovery. Even Former FBI Director Comey testified that this so-called evidence was ‘salacious and unverified.’ I strongly believe the American people deserve to see the facts and to have full transparency from all branches of government. As Congress continues its oversight, I would also recommend the DOJ’s Inspector General to review this matter.” ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday several members of the Texas delegation wrote a letter to Senate leadership urging quick action on a third emergency supplemental spending bill to provide critical relief to impacted areas and the people who have been living in temporary shelter in the State of Texas since Hurricane Harvey made landfall last August. The House has acted to provide critical funds for Texas and the other states and territories damaged by the devastating hurricane season of 2017. The Senate must do so as well. A joint statement from Reps. Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Randy Weber, Michael McCaul, Filemon Vela, Brian Babin, Gene Green, Blake Farenthold , Al Green, John Culberson, Ted Poe & Kevin Brady is below: “The House has acted to provide critical funds to continue the recovery process for the states and territories that were devastated by the vicious hurricane season last year. Yet, the Senate has failed to take the critical steps needed to keep the promise made by our government in August when the State of Texas was under water due to Hurricane Harvey. We have waited for the Senate to act, but our constituents cannot wait any longer.” Text of the joint letter: The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Charles E. Schumer Majority Leader Minority Leader U.S. Senate U.S. Senate 317 Russell Senate Office Building 322 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer, As you know, last August the State of Texas was hit by Hurricane Harvey - one of the worst natural disasters in the history of the United States. The devastation wrought on the Texas Gulf Coast and the greater Houston area not only took the lives of 88 Texans, but also caused an estimated $125 billion or more in damage to the areas we represent. In the wake of this tragedy, Congress has passed two small emergency supplemental spending bills designed to begin the recovery process with a promise of a larger package to help not only Texas, but other states and territories equally ravaged by a damaging hurricane season. As promised, the House of Representatives did its part and passed a third emergency supplemental, aimed at providing additional relief for areas impacted by the 2017 hurricane season and the wildfires in California. This bill was sent to the Senate for consideration in December. We are now entering February with no action by the U.S. Senate. We write asking for prompt consideration of this third supplemental. We have constituents who after almost six months, remain in transitional housing and homes that lack weatherization as Texas remains in the grip of an unusually cold winter. It is past time for Congress to act. It is also important to note that while Hurricane Harvey was the worst offender; the region has faced catastrophic flooding for three years in a row. We cannot continue to wait to begin work on critical flood control projects that will protect not only the residents who live in this region, but the taxpayers who pay for costly disaster recovery that can be avoided in the future if we invest in needed infrastructure now. We represent not only one of the most populous regions of the nation, but also the energy capital for America. The region is further home to the largest tonnage port in America and Strategic Ports of Embarkation for key military units. The failure to adequately fund resiliency and reconstruction along the Texas Gulf Coast and the greater Houston area not only puts the lives of our constituents at risk, but also jeopardizes both our energy and national security. We understand that the Senate has been consumed of late with issues of national importance. However, this third supplemental is a non-partisan matter and critical to the lives and livelihoods of our constituents and the nation at large. Therefore, we thank you in advance for moving to pass this supplemental and continuing the necessary work of responding to the 2017 storm season. Very respectfully, Reps. Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Randy Weber, Michael McCaul, Filemon Vela, Brian Babin, Gene Green, Blake Farenthold, Al Green, John Culberson, Ted Poe, Kevin Brady Cc: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan, Speaker of the House of Representatives Cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader of the House of Representatives You can view the original letter here.
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauded President Donald J. Trump’s first State of the Union address. Congressman McCaul: “Tonight, President Trump delivered a patriotic message of inspiration that highlighted our values as a nation while conveying a vision of unity and economic prosperity. As we continue to build on President Trump’s first year of record-setting accomplishments, I look forward to continuing my work with him to build a safe, strong, and proud America. “Together, working in conjunction with the administration, Republicans have shown our ability to govern and put this country back on a path of economic prosperity. Our work last year reinvigorated the economy, created millions of jobs, increased workers’ wages, took the stock market to record highs, slashed burdensome regulations, and increased the value of college savings and retirement accounts for American taxpayers. And thanks to our new tax law, Texas-based companies are reinvesting in the U.S., such as ExxonMobil’s announcement of a $50 billon business expansion, and others, including American Airlines, are rewarding employees with $1,000 bonuses, all while middle-class Americans are reaping the benefits. In fact, nine out 10 Americans will see bigger paychecks starting this week because of our new tax code. “Looking ahead, I share the president’s vision of finally securing our borders as well as returning to a policy of peace through strength, where our diplomatic efforts are reinforced by a strong and capable military. Border security has been one of my top priorities since I arrived to Congress and with President Trump at the helm, we now have the opportunity to provide the security Texans and all Americans need. As the president also indicated, we must restore America’s leadership on the global stage, standing firm with our allies, tall against our adversaries, and continue rooting out terrorists and their hateful ideology wherever it exists. In Congress, we have already begun rebuilding our military by providing the funding our troops need and boosting morale by giving these brave men and women the pay raise they deserve. “Tonight, we saw a president who spoke from his heart. I hope his message resonates with all Americans and unites us through our common belief in the American Dream. We are strongest when we work together, and I look forward to working with President Trump – and my fellow members of Congress – to provide the American people a safe and strong nation they can be proud of.” ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement calling on Senate Democrats to reopen the government, support our troops, and fund healthcare for nearly 9 million children. Congressman McCaul: “Last night Senate Democrats voted to play politics and shut down the government rather than fund our military and reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program so nearly 9 million children can keep their healthcare coverage. This is downright reckless policy and it’s unconscionable that Democrats have chosen to deny pay to those who protect us and healthcare to vulnerable children in favor of a few hundred thousand people who came to the U.S. illegally. The American people deserve better, and Republicans stand ready to vote – again – to fund the government as soon as Democrats are finished playing this childish game.” ###
01.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today released a statement in support of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Department of Justice’s (DOJ) newly released report, pursuant to Section 11 of Executive Order 13780: Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States, and touted the Committee's work to address gaps and bolster America's defenses against terror. Chairman McCaul: "This new report provides context and insight into a critical part of the United States’ threat landscape. DHS and DOJ have done a thorough review and taken an important step forward in addressing a dynamic issue affecting our security. These findings are further proof that we need to pass legislation expeditiously to strengthen our borders and enforce our existing laws. "As I have said in the past, the American people have been waiting for their leaders to step up, get the job done, and better protect our country. I believe the Administration has heeded the calls with their continued efforts to address our nation's security and, with the introduction of the Securing America's Future Act, Congress has an opportunity to address these issues head on. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get a reasonable solution to the President's desk as soon as possible." Last week, the House of Representatives passed four bills directly related to recommendations from the Committee’s Task Force on Denying Terrorists Entry to the United States. The Task Force, led by Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI), was charged with identifying and introducing recommendations on how to shut down terrorist pathways into the United States. To learn more about the Task Force and their work, click here. ###
01.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House unanimously passed H.R. 4708, the Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017. This bipartisan bill, introduced by House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), helps protect victims of human trafficking by providing the right tools to federal, state, and local law enforcement, as well as private sector organizations to increase awareness and better defend against this heinous threat. Chairman McCaul: “We must do everything in our power to combat human trafficking, uphold human rights, and prevent our citizens from becoming victims of this heinous crime. The Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act will better equip DHS to partner, educate, and coordinate efforts and intelligence sharing on multiple levels. It will provide resources to help deter, detect, and mitigate instances of human trafficking in our country. It will also safeguard victims and help raise public awareness of the threat human trafficking poses to our communities. I am confident this bill will help protect our citizens and children from being exploited.” Key points of this legislation include: H.R. 4708 authorizes the Department of Homeland Security’s efforts to deter, detect, and mitigate instances of human trafficking. It provides resources that will allow DHS to continue partnering with state, local, tribal, and territorial entities to provide training on how to raise awareness of human trafficking and coordinate efforts to prevent it. This bill also directs the Department to disseminate intelligence and best practices related to human trafficking trends and mitigation efforts. Finally, the bill bolsters DHS efforts to coordinate among public and private stakeholders, including government agencies, private entities, law enforcement partners, and non-governmental organizations efforts to raise public awareness on the threat human trafficking poses to our communities nationwide. ###
01.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-ID), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-AZ) today introduced H.R. 4760, the Securing America's Future Act. This bill bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. The Securing America's Future Act includes numerous reforms to ensure the enforcement of our immigration laws in the interior of our country. The legislation aims to reduce the number of individuals who overstay their visas, requires employers to use the E-Verify system to ensure that they hire legal workers, and makes it easier to remove individuals who are gang members and other criminals. Additionally, the legislation cracks down on dangerous sanctuary cities by withholding federal grants and prevents fraud and abuse in the asylum system. The Securing America's Future Act reforms our legal immigration programs by ending chain migration, ending the Diversity Visa program, increasing the number of green cards available for skilled workers, and creating a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers. The bill strengthens the security of our southern border by authorizing the construction of a border wall, investing in new technology, and improving, modernizing, and expanding ports of entry. The bill also calls for an additional 5,000 Border Patrol Agents and 5,000 Customs and Border Protection Officers and requires the use of a biometric Entry-Exit system at all ports of entry. Finally, the Securing America’s Future Act allows DACA beneficiaries to receive a 3-year renewable legal status, while ensuring that gang members, individuals who have criminal convictions, or convictions in juvenile court for serious crimes are not eligible for legal status. Below are statements from Homeland Security Committee and House Judiciary leaders on the introduction of the Securing America's Future Act.Chairman McCaul: “Our current border security and immigration system is failing the American people. For too long drug smugglers, human traffickers, and transnational gang members like MS-13 have exploited our vulnerabilities at our borders. It’s time to end this crisis once and for all. This bill offers common-sense solutions that will finally secure our borders, better support our frontline defenders, strengthen interior enforcement, and get tough on those who break our immigration laws. With this President at the helm, we have the opportunity to provide the security and rule of law our founding fathers intended. I am proud to offer these reasonable solutions with my colleagues and look forward to finally solving these challenges in the near future.”Chairman Goodlatte: “Years of lax enforcement policies have wreaked havoc on our borders. Millions of people have been allowed to flout our immigration laws. We can’t let these dangerous and foolish policies continue. “With the introduction of the Securing America’s Future Act we have an historic opportunity to fix our broken immigration system. The only way to reduce illegal immigration is to address both enforcement of our immigration laws in the interior of our country and to secure our borders. This carefully crafted legislation, which is aligned with the White Houses’ immigration priorities, combines enforcement measures and increased border security to enhance public safety, ensure the door remains open to law-abiding immigrants, and restore the rule of law.“I thank Chairman McCaul and Representatives Labrador and McSally for working with me on the Securing America’s Future Act and we look forward to working with the Administration and Members of the House and Senate to see these important reforms implemented."Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Labrador: “The purpose of our legislation is simple: to help President Trump keep his promise to the American people to fix our broken immigration system. Our bill will modernize America’s immigration system for the next generation, enacting conservative reforms that will make our nation strong. These reforms include authorizing funding for the border wall, stronger interior enforcement, mandatory E-Verify, and ending chain migration and the diversity visa lottery. Our bill will also strengthen our economy and create jobs by transitioning to a merit-based legal immigration system that puts the needs of the American people first.“I want to thank my colleagues – Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman McCaul, and Representative McSally – for joining me in introducing this bill. Should it become law, it will be one of the most consequential conservative bills of our lifetime.”Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman McSally: “Our unsecure border and broken immigration system threaten our country’s safety and prosperity; no one knows this better than Arizona. As if the most recent terrorist attacks don’t stand as reason enough, sophisticated drug cartels, human traffickers, and an opioid crisis all point to the need for action. Now is the time.“Our legislation finally strengthens America’s borders. It moves us towards a merit-based immigration system. It includes funds for necessary infrastructure, interior law enforcement, a biometric exit-entry system, and an e-verify system for employers so that our immigration laws are enforced. It cracks down on sanctuary cities and focuses on public safety of our citizens like Kate Steinle who was killed by a man deported 5 times. And it also puts more boots on the border and supports our Border Patrol Agents and CBP officers on the frontlines. America is the most generous and welcoming nation in the world, and that will continue. But we won’t be taken advantage of any longer. This bill delivers on what the American people want and what our President has requested, and I urge my colleagues to join us and support it.” Original cosponsors of the Securing America’s Future Act also include Judiciary Committee Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and House Appropriations Committee Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter (R-TX).Additional Resources:Bill TextBill Summary Press ConferenceOp-ed from Chairmen McCaul and Goodlatte & Representatives Labrador and McSally
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, and Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-22), Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, introduced the Iran Human Rights and Hostage-Taking Accountability Act. This legislation states that Congress stands with the people of Iran, and it provides the Trump administration with the tools necessary to hold Iranian government officials responsible for human rights violations, corruption, and censorship. Moreover, it holds the Iranian regime accountable for taking American citizens and permanent residents hostage by ensuring that those responsible pay an extreme price. Congressman McCaul: “Demonstrators throughout Iran protesting the oppressive, corrupt regime in demand of reform and respect for basic human rights illustrates the peoples’ discontent has reached a boiling point. These protests should serve as a stark reminder to the Ayatollahs that Iranian citizens are tired of government officials using the country’s financial resources to fund terrorist organizations abroad while inflation skyrockets at home. Let me be clear, the United States is a friend of the Iranian people. As such, this legislation heeds the public outcry in Iran. They deserve a free, prosperous, and democratic society in which they again have a voice in the direction of their country.” Congressman Deutch: “The world is watching as Iranians in cities across the country demand basic human rights from their government. But this radical Iranian regime has long made it its mission to repress its people as well as destabilize the region by financing terrorism and developing dangerous ballistic missiles. The far reaches of this Iranian threat hits us in South Florida, where we continue to demand the release of my constituent Bob Levinson who has been held hostage for nearly 11 years. The United States follows words with actions, and this bill will rightfully punish Iranian officials involved in the kidnapping of American citizens and egregious human rights abuses against its own people.” ###
01.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement in support of the Iranian people’s protests for freedom. Congressman McCaul: “The recent demonstrations across Iran and the regime’s deadly crackdown simultaneously highlight the Iranian people's thirst for freedom, as well as the desperate measures the hardliners will take to cling to power. These events further reveal that the Obama Administration’s extremely flawed and dangerous Iran nuclear deal has not altered the behavior of their government, which has always been more focused on fueling terror in the region through a ‘Shia Crescent’ at the expense of its own citizens’ wellbeing. “This dangerous dictatorship has once again proven that it cannot be trusted. We must promote peace and freedom in Iran and I applaud Ambassador Haley’s emphatic calls for an emergency session of the UN Security Council and special session of the UN Human Rights Council to address the dynamic situation. Further, I will be introducing legislation soon to sanction Iranian officials and other entities responsible for human rights abuses and hostage taking. “The United States must stand behind the people of Iran, who no longer want to live as subjects to a corrupt, terror-supporting, backwards regime.” ###
12.23.2017	Washington D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement highlighting the Committee’s many legislative accomplishments in the first session of the 115th Congress. This includes legislation to secure America’s borders, protect against cyber-attacks, ensure that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) runs efficiently, and shield the homeland from both international and domestic threats. With 80 Committee bills passed this year, Politico recently named the House Homeland Security Committee the “hardest working Committee in Congress.” Chairman McCaul: “With each passing day, the threats facing our homeland continue to grow. The House has passed dozens of Committee bills aimed at bolstering our efforts to fight terror at home and abroad, secure and defend our borders, protect our digital networks from cyber intruders, improve information sharing and support America’s first responders. In 2018, the House Homeland Security Committee will continue to lead the charge to do even more to protect our homeland. I look forward to working alongside my colleagues in both chambers of Congress, as well as our partners in the Executive Branch, next year to provide the direction and support needed to combat an ever-evolving threat landscape to keep the American people safe and secure.” Notable legislation includes: H.R. 2825, Department of Homeland Security Reauthorization Act of 2017 The first ever, comprehensive reauthorization of DHS passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support with a vote of 386-41. This bill eliminates and streamlines programs within DHS, re-asserts Congress’s Article I authority, protects taxpayer dollars, and supports America’s first responders and front-line defenders. H.R. 3359, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Act of 2017 This bill creates a stand-alone operational organization within the Department to elevate and prioritize its vital obligation to protect our cybersecurity networks. H.R. 3548, Border Security for America Act This bill is a strong, smart, multi-layered approach in providing Americans the secure border they have long deserved. This legislation calls for the building of additional physical barriers, including a wall, technology, and a surge in personnel that will make it nearly impossible for bad actors to enter our country illegally. H.R. 1370, Blue Campaign Authorization Act This bill bipartisan bill, passed in both the House and Senate, helps protect victims of human trafficking by providing the right tools to federal, state, and local law enforcement, as well as private sector organizations to increase awareness and better defend against this heinous threat. NOTE: A full list of bills to shield the homeland can be found here.
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, with my support the House of Representatives passed a supplemental disaster recovery funding package to provide relief from Hurricane Harvey and other natural disasters. This package will not only provide relief to victims of Harvey, it will allow Texas to move forward on several crucial flood mitigation projects, like the Cypress Creek Reservoir Project, to prevent future disasters. Texas and Florida congressional delegations joined forces to significantly increase the original $44 billion funding request from the Office of Management and Budget. In addition to more FEMA, housing, business, agriculture, infrastructure and economic development funding, the measure includes $12.5 billion to help communities protect against future natural disasters and prevent repetitive costs. Upon passage by a 251 to 169 margin, a coalition of U.S. Representatives Michael McCaul, Kevin Brady, Brian Babin, John Culberson, Pete Olson, Ted Poe, and Randy Weber from districts impacted by Hurricane Harvey issued the following joint statement: “This is a breakthrough for preventing future flooding. In addition to funding Texas’s ongoing recovery needs, we have succeeded in securing billions of dollars to prevent future flooding of our homes and communities. Texas could be eligible for up to $15 billion in aid, including a $10.5 billion pool for flood mitigation projects. Many of our key regional projects can move forward with this funding, some of which are already authorized and awaiting funding – others which require updated studies and assessment as a crucial first step.” BACKGROUND In the wake of the damage caused by Hurricane Harvey and the other natural disasters that struck across America in 2017, Congress crafted legislation to provide relief and recovery funds to the affected areas. Alongside important FEMA Disaster Relief Funds and HUD Community Development Block Grants, this includes additional funding for the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Eligible Projects Include: - Addicks and Barker Reservoir Dam System Improvement Study including Cypress Creek Reservoir Project & Harris County Buyout Project - Galveston County Coastal Spine Project - Clear Creek Flood Damage Reduction (Watershed) Project - Montgomery County Reservoir Project Study - Metropolitan Houston Regional Watershed Assessment - Houston Ship Channel Repairs - Brays Bayou Flood Risk Management Project - Hunting Bayou Flood Risk Management Project - White Oak Bayou Flood Risk Management Project; and - Wharton Levee Flood Protection System Project Immediately after Hurricane Harvey struck the state of Texas, Congressman McCaul was on the ground offering his assistance and assessing the damage from the historic flooding. Since then, he has been working with local, state, and federal officials and using his position as Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security to ensure families in TX-10 and around the state receive the relief they need and to make sure this type of disaster is prevented in the future. Click here watch a recap of Congressman McCaul leading Harvey recovery efforts from day one. (Duration 1:35) ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced the Expanding Sanctions Against Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps Act to make it more difficult for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and related companies to raise revenue and access international business and financial systems. Congressman McCaul: “The IRGC supports terrorist organizations such as the IRGC Quds Force, facilitates Iran’s ballistic and nuclear development program, and is responsible for serious human rights abuses against Iranian citizens. The IRGC additionally serves as both a major military and economic entity for the Iranian regime. As a result of the misguided and dangerous Obama-era Iran nuclear agreement, IRGC-owned and affiliated companies have greater access to the global financial system and international markets, which in turn allows the IRGC to continue and further its illicit activities. This bill ensures that America will hold those who conduct or facilitate business with the IRGC accountable.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the U.S. publicly attributing the massive “WannaCry” cyberattack to North Korea. Chairman McCaul: “The declaration that North Korea was directly behind the 'WannaCry' attack in May is a grave reminder that the regime in Pyongyang can threaten innocent people almost anywhere on earth with more than just ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons, and that we must do more to strengthen our own cybersecurity. "As the American people have become more reliant on computer networks for both personal and professional use, everyone is now a potential victim of hacking by cybercriminals, nation states, and others. That is why over my Chairmanship, I have made strengthening the cybersecurity mission of DHS one our Committee's top priorities. "While we have made progress with passing laws to increase information sharing between both the public and private sector and strengthen federal networks, we need to do more. The Senate can start by passing the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Act, House-passed bipartisan legislation that creates a standalone operational agency to better protect America. "Cybersecurity is key to keeping our homeland safe and we should implement common sense solutions like this one without any delay." ###
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the House passage of the final version of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act, to reform our tax code. Congressman McCaul: “Today is a historic day. With my support, the House passed the final version of H.R. 1 to reform America’s broken tax code. This once-in-a-generation tax reform bill will provide hardworking American families and job creators big and small with much-needed relief and flexibility. “To highlight some key provisions, we eliminate one of the most disastrous parts of Obamacare, the individual mandate, so Americans are no longer forced by the government to purchase insurance they do not want or need. Also, by doubling the standard deduction in our tax code, we are providing families with bigger paychecks and a simpler, fairer tax filing process. Furthermore, in lowering the corporate tax rate and providing for repatriation of foreign funds, we are bolstering investment here at home, allowing our tech hubs, like Austin, and other business communities to compete internationally once again. Lastly, by creating a new deduction for “pass-through” businesses, we are rewarding small businesses that for too long have been subject to unfair tax rates. These changes ensure the American entrepreneurial spirit – that for generations has driven innovation and cultivated the world’s greatest economy – is alive once again. “I applaud my fellow Texan, Chairman Kevin Brady, and my colleagues in both chambers for their steadfast leadership on delivering relief, lower taxes, and bigger paychecks to millions of hardworking American families.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will: Lower individual tax rates; Repeal Obamacare’s individual mandate; Expand the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000; Roughly double the standard deduction, allowing about 90% of taxpayers to file their taxes on a postcard; Lower the corporate tax rate from 35% - one of the highest in the world – to a more competitive rate at 21%; Create a new 20% deduction for “pass through” businesses, which are small businesses that have their profits pass-through directly to the owners. These type of businesses included Sole proprietorships, S Corporations, Partnerships, and LLCs– which were previously taxed at individual income rates; Bring offshore profits back to the United States fueling economic growth. ###
12.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the below statement following the President’s speech announcing his National Security Strategy. Congressman McCaul: “The world is becoming increasingly violent and the global threat landscape increasingly complex. From the destabilizing actions of North Korea and Iran, to jihadist organizations relentlessly plotting terrorist attacks against us and our allies, the United States does not have the luxury of forfeiting leadership on the global stage to our adversaries, including Russia or China. They do not support our values, and often work proactively to undermine them. “As such, the president’s National Security Strategy rightly prioritizes the safety and security of the American people and our way of life, strengthens border security and interior enforcement, enhances our cyber defenses, promotes a robust economy, and embraces our leadership role on the world stage. Unlike the Obama administration, which neglected our military, President Trump is rebuilding so it is second to none. Also, this strategy ensures our diplomacy and foreign policy best advances our interests and prosperity. “Simply put, American influence and leadership abroad is a positive force for peace and prosperity, and we must vigilantly defend it knowing our adversaries will not. I commend this administration for prioritizing and advancing a strategy that better supports our allies and brings fear to our enemies.” ###
12.14.2017	AUSTIN, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, announced today that he has nominated 21 Texas students for acceptance to the esteemed United States service academies. The students are recommended based on their academic performance, leadership skills, extracurricular involvement, and character. Congressman McCaul: “It is an honor and a privilege to nominate such outstanding young Texans to our nation’s service academies. This nomination signifies years of hard work and dedication. Their decision to serve our country in uniform is admirable, and I am confident the future of our nation is in good hands.” The service academies include the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO.; the Military Academy at West Point, NY; the Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD.; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be selected by the officials at each respective academy this spring. Students who are interested in learning more about service academy nominations can visit McCaul’s website by clicking here. Nomination to a service academy by Congressman McCaul does not ensure a student will be accepted. The nominees are as follows: Charles Atkinson of Cypress; Anthony Atwell of Austin; Matthew Baker of Brenham; Elizabeth Bradley of Cypress; Hunter Brugger of La Grange; Barclay Bull of Austin; Zafar Durrani of Cypress; William Fedor of Cypress; Jonathan Frank of Houston; Hyunki Lee of Austin; Cliff Manning of Cypress; Cora McCanlies of Katy; Grace McElroy of Austin; Kyle Mrowczynski of Katy; Hoang Nguyen of Austin; Sara Porter of Katy; Kevin Rivera of Cypress; Tyler Smalley of Cypress; John Stovall of Cypress; Jack Venker of Cypress; Joshua Williams of Cypress. ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the statement below following the president’s signing of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for the Fiscal Year 2018 into law. Congressman McCaul: “Our exceptional servicemen and women risk their lives daily to secure the freedoms and liberties we enjoy. In return, it is our duty as Congress to ensure they have the resources and equipment needed to defend the national security of the United States when called upon. This year’s NDAA enhances our capabilities across the board to effectively deter and respond to any threat when necessary. Additionally, this legislation gives our military the most substantial pay raise they have received in eight years, and they earned every penny of it. Today’s signing of this legislation sends a clear message to the world that the United States is leading once again.” Read McCaul’s monthly column on NDAA here.
12.11.2017	Washington D.C. – Today the House unanimously passed H.R. 3359, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Act of 2017. This watershed legislation will streamline the current structure of the National Protection and Programs Directorate (NPPD) and re-designate it as the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency (CISA) to more effectively execute cybersecurity and critical infrastructure related authorities. Chairman McCaul: “With the advancement of technology and our increased dependence on computer networks, nation states, hackers, and cybercriminals are finding new ways to attack our cyber infrastructure and expose vulnerabilities. This re-alignment will achieve DHS’s goal of creating a stand-alone operational organization, focusing on and elevating its vital cybersecurity and infrastructure security missions to strengthen the security of digital America and our nation’s critical infrastructure.”The bills that passed the House today include: H.R. 3359 - Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency Act of 2017, sponsored by Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX), to amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to authorize the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security H.R. 3669 - Securing General Aviation and Commercial Charter Air Carrier Service Act of 2017, sponsored by Rep. Ron Estes (R-KS), to improve and streamline security procedures related to general aviation and commercial charter air carrier utilizing risk-based security standards.Note: Watch Chairman McCaul’s floor remarks on H.R. 3359.
12.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, was invited to speak at the 10th Parliamentary Intelligence Security Forum to discuss international terrorism and the importance of cybersecurity. Congressman McCaul: “Today, we face a new set of national security challenges. And with technological advancements, lethal threats can break through barriers and climb over borders at lightning speed. Now more than ever, we must find ways to work together and prevent our common enemies from attacking our countries and bringing harm to our people. I thank Congressman Pittenger for convening today’s forum to discuss these important issues.” McCaul on International Terrorism: “We must stand united and cooperate with one another to strengthen the security of our airports with the most efficient and advanced technology to screen passengers. The world’s most dangerous terrorists, may not be living among us, but many are only one plane ride away. We must also work with private tech companies to limit terrorists’ communication capabilities, and use all of our economic and military resources to dry up their funding and destroy them on the battlefield.” McCaul on Cybersecurity: “The cybersecurity of our respective nations is also under constant attack from those engaged in cyberwarfare. Fortunately, my committee, has made this a top priority. In 2014, our Committee took bipartisan action and passed legislation to expedite hiring authority at our Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and to ensure assessments of its cybersecurity workforce. In 2015, we passed the Cybersecurity Act which provided liability protections for public to private and private to private cyber threat information sharing. And while we have done a lot, we need to do more. That is why the Committee I lead has passed a bill to elevate and operationalize DHS’s cyber office to better protect digital America.” Background: Over the past several years, the Parliamentary Intelligence Security Forums have attracted 700 Members of Parliament and government officials from over 70 countries to discuss terrorism financing, cybersecurity, and intelligence collaboration. The 10th Parliamentary Intelligence Security Forum has 150 confirmed attendees from 46 countries. Prominent attendees include 3 Speakers of Parliament, 2 Deputy Speaker of Parliament and 20 Ambassadors. Countries include Albania, Andorra, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bosnia, Brunei, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, France, Georgia, Germany, Ireland, Jordan, Kosovo, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Ukraine, the United States of America, Uzbekistan, and the Vatican City State. ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on the Trump administration’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel: Congressman McCaul: “Every American embassy should be located in the capital of that country, and Jerusalem is the undivided capital of the State of Israel. Congress spoke loud and clear on this issue with the overwhelming passage of the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995, which states that Israel, as a sovereign nation, has the right to designate its own capital and our embassy should be located in that capital. I welcome President Trump’s historic announcement today, which both fulfills a key campaign promise and recognizes a longstanding reality. Furthermore, this announcement signals a new era in relations with our Israeli partners – relations that were significantly strained by the Obama administration. “Make no mistake, the controversial and sensitive process ahead will come with its challenges. I urge President Trump to be mindful of this as he moves forward with the relocation of our embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, and ensure U.S. national security interests remain a top priority. I also urge all parties in the region to exercise restraint as we move forward, and trust that the United States, as the president highlighted, remains deeply committed to lasting peace in the region.” ###
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) end-of-year statistics and their continued concern about the steady increase of transnational criminal organizations’ (TCO) exploitation along the Southwest border, among other issue areas. Chairman McCaul: “As I’ve said many times before, Americans deserve a strong and secure border. DHS’s end of the year statistics prove that—with a supportive Administration and Congress—they can better reduce illegal activity along the Southwest border. However, just last week, the Acting Secretary of DHS testified in front of my Committee that gangs like MS-13, human traffickers, drug smugglers, and potential terrorist are continually looking to find new ways to sneak into our country and pose a persistent national security threat. It is vital that we continue to support DHS and their mission to make America more secure from the ever-evolving threat landscape. “My Committee passed a bill, the ‘Border Security for America Act,’ that would provide additional physical barriers which includes wall, levee wall, fencing, technology, as well a surge in personnel, to more effectively combat these threats. This bill provides DHS with the necessary tools and resources to finally provide Americans the secure border they have long demanded and deserve.” ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the House passage of the Taylor Force Act. Congressman McCaul: “Those who support terrorists should not be able to receive assistance from the United States. The Taylor Force Act passed today restricts U.S. assistance to the Palestinian Authority until they cease payments to terrorists who carry out attacks on innocent Israelis and Americans. This bill is a critical step in ensuring the kind of atrocity that took place on March 8th of last year, which left former U.S. Army officer and Vanderbilt student Taylor Force dead, is not repeated. “I had the honor to share the stage with Mr. Force, the father of Taylor Force, a few months ago, and I hope no family ever has to endure a tragedy like he and his family have. While this legislation cannot bring his son back, it can help ensure these tragedies never happen again.” Click here to view Congressman McCaul’s remarks from the House Foreign Affairs Committee markup of the Taylor Force Act. ###
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Kirstjen Nielsen to be Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Chairman McCaul: “I am pleased to congratulate Kirstjen Nielsen on being confirmed as the sixth Secretary of Homeland Security. I look forward to working closely with Kirstjen and the Department to combat the most critical homeland security challenges facing the United States, including securing our borders, defending against cyber threats, enforcing immigration laws, counterterrorism and more. I am confident that Kirstjen’s mission-focused style of leadership will help her succeed in leading the men and women of DHS and ensuring we reform and improve the Department. “I also want to thank Acting Secretary Elaine Duke for her tremendous leadership. I look forward to our continued partnership in striving to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of DHS.”
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the House voted to go to conference on H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Congressman McCaul: “Today, Congress voted for both chambers to meet to refine the differences between our two tax reform bills. For the first time in 31 years, both the House and Senate each passed reform legislation that will deliver tax relief to the American people and provide them with a simpler, fairer tax code. While folks across the aisle are defending the status quo, the fact remains that republicans in Congress are working to make life better for the hardworking American taxpayers. I commend my colleagues for their leadership and work on this critical issue, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in both the House and Senate to finish the job.” ###
12.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on teh verdict of Kate Steinle's murder case. . Chairman McCaul: "The acquittal of Jose Ines Garcia Zarate is shocking. This verdict validates the lack of justice in America's sanctuary cities, where the lives of our citizens are oftentimes put in jeopardy by the protection of dangerous criminal aliens. Such a decision is further proof that the system of checks and balances placed on our immigration policies has completely collapsed. "For the safety of American families, we must do more to strengthen the security of our borders and enforce our immigration laws. My heart is with the Steinle family at this very difficult time."NOTE: Chairman McCaul recently wrote an op-ed on California’s ‘sanctuary state’ law declaring it protects criminals and creates barriers between local and federal law-enforcement agencies. Read Chairman McCaul’s National Review op-ed entitled, California is Building the Wrong Wall. ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX), Ted Yoho (R-FL), and Albio Sires (D-NJ), members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced the Multilateral Aid Review Act of 2017 to ensure a credible and rigorous analysis of the effectiveness of United States investments in multilateral entities. Congressman McCaul: “United States government agencies collectively spent over $10 billion on funding multilateral entities in fiscal year 2016. While this assistance is vital, it is in the best interest of the U.S. to assess the value of these investments. That is why I am proud to work with Congressmen Sires and Yoho to introduce this bill that will help maximize the impact of our limited foreign assistance dollars.” Congressman Yoho: “Billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent funding multilateral agencies such as the United Nations. It is imperative that the United States begins assessing the multilateral system and its effectiveness to guarantee that the United States’ priorities and goals are being best served. The multilateral system has the potential to be great and to be more than the sum of its parts. However, years of inept leadership and corruption have diminished the effectiveness of certain parts of the multilateral system. The Multilateral Aid Review Act of 2017 will give the necessary tools to the United States to help right the multilateral system and make it more effective.” Congressman Sires: “U.S. foreign assistance is critical, but with increasingly limited diplomatic resources, it is essential to ensure that this assistance is being used effectively. This bill would provide greater oversight by assessing the efficacy of U.S. investments in multilateral entities, which will provide an important tool to guide U.S. funding decisions. Consequently, this bill would also create incentives for performance improvements, greater transparency, and accountability amongst multilateral entities.” Multilateral Aid Review Act of 2017: Provides a tool to guide the United States Government’s decision-making and prioritization with regard to funding multilateral organizations, and to provide a methodological basis for allocating scarce budgetary resources to those that advance relevant United States foreign policy objectives; Incentivizes improvements in the performance of multilateral entities to achieve better on-the-ground outcomes in developing, fragile, and crisis-afflicted regions; Protects United States taxpayer investments in foreign assistance by improving transparency with regard to the funding of multilateral bodies. ###
11.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement after U.S. Border Patrol Agent, Rogelio Martinez, was killed and his partner injured responding to activity on the southwest border Sunday morning. Chairman McCaul: “Yesterday’s deadly attack in Texas is the latest horrifying reminder of the daily dangers our brave men and women face because of our porous border. Sadly, too many Border Patrol Agents have lost their lives in the line of duty. We must speed the implementation of common sense measures essential to protecting our homeland. That is why I have repeatedly called for new technology and physical barriers, including a wall, along with additional personnel to strengthen the security of our southern border. “I pray for a full recovery of the courageous Agent who remains hospitalized in serious condition, and my thoughts and condolences are with the family and friends of Agent Rogelio Martinez during this difficult time.”
11.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, supports President Donald J. Trump’s decision to place North Korea back on the State Sponsor of Terrorism list. Congressman McCaul: “From the beginning, I have maintained that North Korea should never have been delisted as a State Sponsor of Terrorism, and I applaud this Administration for taking decisive action to return them to their appropriate position. This regime’s blatant disregard for international law and basic human decency has long been on display. Recent actions, such as the public assassination of Kim Jong Un’s brother using a chemical agent, and the torture and subsequent death of American citizen Otto Warmbier, are just a couple examples of this regime’s increasingly unfathomable behavior. “Further, as Kim Jong Un continues in his dangerous pursuit of a nuclear intercontinental ballistic missile capable of hitting the United States, we must do all we can to place additional pressure on his regime to abandoned this reckless path and instead pursue a path towards peace.” ###
11.17.2017	HOUSTON, TX- Today, Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10), Ted Poe (TX-02), Pete Olson (TX-22), Blake Farenthold (TX-27), Randy Weber (TX-14), Brian Babin (TX-36), and Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement regarding the Office of Budget Management’s supplemental disaster request: “After reviewing the latest Office of Management and Budget (OMB) supplemental request for disaster recovery, we find the proposal insufficient and unacceptable. We have met personally with the Director of OMB and explained in detail the disaster of Harvey on Texas. Even so, we strongly believe the request is woefully inadequate. Hurricane Harvey and the subsequent flooding events that followed ranks as the second most costly disaster in modern times (the Fukushima Disaster ranks first). While damages are still being determined, estimates currently sit at approximately $190 billion or more. To be clear, this $44 billion proposal, to be split between multiple disaster areas, does not adequately address long-term recovery needs in Texas. The people of Texas need and deserve federal assistance for long-term flood mitigation, which this request does not sufficiently provide. We stand together opposed to this level of funding and will continue to fight to help Texas rebuild.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX-10), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement after the House took historic action to reform our tax code by passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Congressman McCaul: “Our tax code has not been updated in 31 years. A lot has changed since then and our tax code must reflect that in order for our country to remain competitive. That is why, today, the House took an important first step in fulfilling the promise Republicans made to the American people to create a fairer, simpler, and more competitive tax code that benefits working-class families. I voted with 226 of my colleagues in support of this bill which will create over 70,000 new full time jobs in Texas and provide an increase of $2,210 to the average Texan family. I commend my fellow Texan, Chairman Kevin Brady, for his diligent work on this historic bill.” H.R. 1 will: Consolidate the number of tax brackets from seven to four. Expand the child tax credit from $1,000 to $1,600. Roughly double the standard deduction, allowing about 90% of taxpayers to file their taxes on a postcard. Lower the corporate tax rate from 35% - one of the highest in the world – to a more competitive rate at 20%. Create a new tax rate of 25% for “pass-through” businesses – businesses whose profits pass-through directly to the owners – which were previously taxed at individual income rates. Bring offshore profits back to the United States fueling economic growth.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauds the House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. This critical legislation strengthens our nation’s defense programs and includes McCaul’s Cyber Scholarship Opportunities Act, which was introduced in the House earlier this year. Congressman McCaul: “This year’s NDAA fully funds our military, the best fighting force in the world, and provides the necessary support our men and women in uniform need and deserve – including the largest pay raise for our troops in eight years. In order to continue ensuring the safety of our service members and their families at home and abroad, it’s imperative we restore our nation’s military readiness and bolster our nation’s offensive and defensive military capabilities. “As the arena for warfare changes, we must strive to meet the challenges posed by evolving technologies and cyber threats. My legislation, the Cyber Scholarship Opportunities Act, which is included in this bill will help address our nation’s shortage of skilled cybersecurity professionals by expanding and enhancing an existing federal scholarship program for students pursuing degrees in cybersecurity fields. “Across the board, this year’s NDAA will enhance our capabilities to ensure we effectively deter and respond when necessary to any threat that poses a danger to the safety and security of the American people and our allies. I commend my fellow Texan, Chairman Thornberry, for his resolve on this important legislation and look forward to our continued efforts to strengthen and modernize our military.” National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018: Provides the largest pay raise for our troops in eight years. Provides topline funding of nearly $700 billion. Increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, as well as Air Guard. Provides an increase of $26.4 billion to rebuild a worn-out military (i.e. $1.9 billion for facilities maintenance, $4.4 billion to strengthen Missile Defense.) Permanently preserves special survivor indemnity allowance (SSIA) payments to more than 60,000 surviving military spouses. ###
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following President Donald J. Trump’s speech in Seoul, South Korea. Congressman McCaul: “President Trump’s speech in Seoul articulated a clear foreign policy vision based on ‘peace through strength,’ and reclaimed the mantle of leadership on the world stage for the United States. America will never seek conflict with another nation, but we will always remain true to our allies and defend our commitments to liberty and security for the safety of our homeland. “The President has now provided the regime in Pyongyang with a historic opportunity to end its aggression by stopping the development of ballistic missiles and through a complete and permanent denuclearization. It is now up to Kim Jong Un to choose peace over confrontation.” ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Robert Pittenger (NC-09) introduced the Taiwan Security Act to enhance the U.S.-Taiwan relationship. This legislation was introduced in the Senate as S.1620 by Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR). Congressman McCaul: “For far too long, the United States has prioritized the demands of Beijing over the consistent support of our friends in Taiwan. China is a nation that continuously bullies its neighbors, undermines U.S. economic and national security, threatens global trade in the South China Sea, and has refused to use its leverage over North Korea to help resolve the crisis on the Korean peninsula. For these reasons, among many others, it’s time to relinquish China’s unabated power to dictate U.S. foreign policy. While respecting our One-China policy, we must return to our normal process for approving arms sales to Taiwan and encouraging their participation alongside the U.S. on the international stage when and where appropriate. The United States should stand firm behind our ally Taiwan, and I commend Senator Cotton for leading this effort in the Senate.” Congressman Pittenger: “The United States’ relationship with China is challenged through their current provocations in the South China Sea, cyber threats, business investments which impact U.S. national security, and economic support for North Korea. This legislation strengthens our relationship with the freedom-loving people of Taiwan and provides a necessary counter-balance to China's increased aggressiveness in the region.” Specifically, this bill: Mandates senior defense and diplomatic exchanges between the United States and Taiwan at the flag officer and assistant secretary level or above. Reestablishes an annual strategic dialogue between the United States and Taiwan on arms sales in order to ensure the regular transfer of defense articles. Directs the U.S. Secretary of Defense to invite Taiwanese forces to participate in the 2018 Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) naval exercise and a 2018 edition of the Red Flag air-to-air combat exercise. Requires U.S Navy port visits to Taiwan and vice versa. Expresses Congressional support for Taiwan's plan to spend 3% of GDP on defense and its ongoing efforts to suspend all economic ties with North Korea. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after Chairman Lamar Smith (R-TX-21) announced that he will retire at the end of his current term: Congressman McCaul: “Thank you to my friend and fellow Texas Chairman for his three decades of service in the People’s House. It has been an honor and a privilege to work alongside Lamar as the Chairman of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and his previous years of leadership on the House Judiciary and Ethics Committees. He has also been a critical voice in national security, as he formed the Border Security Caucus and served on the House Committee on Homeland Security. I wish Lamar and his family the best, especially with his second grandchild on the way!”
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, applauded the introduction of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. This is bold legislation to overhaul our nation’s tax code for the first time in 31 years. Congressman McCaul: “It has been 31 years since Congress last reformed our cumbersome tax code, which is stifling economic growth and suppressing American wages. Since then, our tax system has become increasingly bloated, complicated, and inefficient for hardworking taxpayers and small businesses around the country. Today, House Republicans introduced legislation that will provide the American people with a modernized, pro-growth tax code. This plan will deliver real relief, for example, allowing a typical middle-income family to receive a tax cut of $1,182 when they file their tax returns. I applaud my fellow Texan, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Brady, and the rest of my colleagues on the committee, for their tireless work on this bill. American taxpayers and middle-class families deserve a break and I look forward to working with my colleagues to create more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks for my constituents.” Among many things, the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act enables the hard-working taxpayers to: Keep more of their hard-earned dollars each month with lower tax rates. Preserve the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents, such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Eliminate special-interest deductions that increase rates and complicate Americans’ taxes – so an individual or family can file their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Increase economic innovation and competitiveness that leads to more jobs here at home. Receive relief from the “estate tax” which doubles and triples taxes on family-owned businesses that are passed to the next generation. ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after Chairman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) announced that he will retire at the end of his current term: Chairman McCaul: “I want to thank my fellow Chairman and Texan Jeb Hensarling for his years of service to this country and the state of Texas in the U.S. House of Representatives. It has been an honor and privilege to serve with Jeb during his tenure as Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee and under his leadership while he served as the Chair of the House Republican Conference. Jeb has been an influential voice in Congress for unleashing economic opportunity, promoting consumer choice, and pursuing smart regulation of our financial markets. He has not only been a great colleague, but also a great friend for more than a decade. I look forward to continuing our work together on behalf of Texans and their families for the remainder of the 115th Congress.”
10.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Joaquin Castro (TX-20), both members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced legislation aiming to make the United States’ international development efforts more impactful and cost-efficient. The Global Development Lab Act authorizes and augments the capabilities of the U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID) U.S. Global Development Lab, an entity that applies science, technology, innovation, and partnerships to accelerate development impact and solve the world’s most pressing development issues. The House of Representatives previously passed the Global Development Lab Act in the 114th Congress. “At a time when our nation continues to face some of the most challenging global crises in recent history, we must continue to make smart investments in effective solutions,” said Rep. McCaul. “Through the use of scientific and technical innovations in collaboration with the private sector, the Global Development Lab has played a critical role in mitigating the effects of outbreaks, such as Ebola, and reducing global poverty. That is why I am proud to introduce the Global Development Lab Act with my Texas colleague Congressman Castro, which will further enhance the important work of the lab and sharpen a critical tool used to improve the lives of millions of people and American foreign policy abroad.” Specifically, the Global Development Lab Act formally authorizes the Global Development Lab within USAID and would allow the Lab to: Utilize innovation incentive awards, a pay-for-success model, allowing the Lab to tap into good ideas, no matter the source; Bring in term-limited technical experts in a more cost-effective manner; and Have greater flexibility to use program income more effectively. “If the United States hopes to meaningfully address the numerous intractable challenges confronting the world, we must expand the universe of problem solvers we engage. The Global Development Lab does just that, essentially crowd sourcing solutions to big problems like hunger, illiteracy, and disease,” said Rep. Castro. “The Lab is a worthwhile investment in the future of humankind – in fact, it’s designed to save the government more money than it costs. Convening the expertise of academia, the private sector, and non-profits, we will be able to draw on a range of specialized knowledge and bypass hurdles that have held back innovation in the past.” The U.S. Global Development Lab seeks to spur revolutionary development innovations by sourcing, testing, and scaling proven solutions to help hundreds of millions of people lift themselves out of poverty. The Lab aims to accelerate the evolution of the development enterprise by seeking input from people everywhere who have promising ideas; expanding existing and encouraging new partnerships; putting data and evidence to use; and capitalizing on technological and scientific advances. More information about the Lab’s projects and partnerships is available here: LINK ###
10.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), a senior member on the Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to U.S.-backed forces claim of victory over ISIS in Raqqa, Syria. Chairman McCaul: “The defeat of ISIS in its proclaimed capital of Raqqa signifies the continuing deterioration of the so-called ‘caliphate.’ This is a significant victory for the U.S. and our partners in the campaign to defeat ISIS. While their territory continues to shrink, they remain a credible terror threat both at home and abroad so we must continue to fight against the affiliate groups and their networks that carry out and inspire terror around the globe. The U.S. must not forget the lessons learned from the Obama administration’s precipitous withdrawal from the region. We need to preserve our military power and influence in order to dispel Iran’s attempts to exert influence at the expense of U.S. national security and to ensure a lasting defeat of ISIS.” # # #
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following President Trump’s announcement on a new strategy for preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. Congressman McCaul: “One of the greatest threats to our homeland is a nuclear armed Iran. Unfortunately, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), negotiated by the Obama administration, is an extremely weak agreement that has already strengthened the murderous dictatorship in Tehran and will allow the regime to obtain the world’s most dangerous weapons once the deal expires even if it’s strictly adhered to. “This flawed agreement also inhibits real measures to restrict Iran’s ballistic missile program, omits needed sanctions on the IRGC, fails to address the regime’s human rights abuses, and neglects Iran’s active support for terrorist proxies with worldwide reach such as Hezbollah and Hamas. Lastly, Iran’s refusal to allow unfettered access to its military facilities for compliance inspection is a serious concern which the IAEA has noted. “President Trump clearly articulated that the JCPOA, as currently written, is not in the national security interests of the United States or our allies. Future generations of Americans don’t deserve to be threatened by a nuclear armed Iran. “I commend the President for taking a measured approach to strengthen a toothless deal and I look forward to working with the Administration, my fellow Members of Congress, and our allies on tough new measures to prevent this tyrannical regime from expanding its terror footprint and from ever developing nuclear weapons.” ###
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, supported the House passage of the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act to provide further relief for Texans rebuilding in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, as well as those affected by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Congressman McCaul: “After the Governor’s office and the Texas delegation received confirmation from House leadership that the majority of today’s funding will go to Texas, I supported this bill to provide even more relief to those in need after Hurricane Harvey. Let me be clear, while this package helps Texans, it is still not enough. We need additional funding for the major rebuilding that still lies ahead, for example, projects such as the dredging of our ports, CDBG and Army Corps funding, housing, and additional mitigation resources. Ultimately, I am pleased with the assurances from House Leadership that Texas will receive the help it needs in the next supplemental package. I remain committed to our state’s recovery efforts, including funding for my top priority, a reservoir on Cypress Creek to protect the Greater Houston Metro Area from future flood disasters.” ###
10.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – President Donald Trump today announced his intent to nominate Kirstjen Nielsen as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement on the heels of the announcement: Chairman McCaul: “Kirstjen Nielsen is a true leader who has served as the right hand of General John Kelly during his tenure as Secretary of DHS and at the White House. Kirstjen thoroughly understands the inner workings of the Department having served there twice and has extensive background in national security policy decision-making with her time in the White House. Both will prove very beneficial as she prepares to lead a diverse organization with such critical missions. I have full faith that she will serve the best interests of our nation and I remain committed to working shoulder to shoulder with her. I urge the U.S. Senate to swiftly confirm her to this vital role so we can finally secure our borders, better defend our cyber space, reauthorize DHS for the first time ever, and stop terror threats to the homeland.” # # #
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10), John Carter (TX-31) and Filemon Vela (TX-34) and U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) applaud the House passage of S. 1617 – Javier Vega, Jr. Memorial Act of 2017 - to honor the fallen U.S. Border Patrol Agent Javier Vega, Jr. Congressmen McCaul, Carter, and Vela introduced this piece of legislation in the House and Senators Cornyn and Cruz introduced this legislation in the Senate on July 24, 2017. This bill renames the Border Patrol checkpoint where Agent Vega was assigned, along U.S. Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, after him. The bill will now head to the president’s desk. “As Chairman of Homeland Security, I am proud of all of our Border Patrol Agents who put their lives on the line every day to protect our homeland and keep Americans safe,” said Rep. McCaul. “Agent Vega is remembered as a dedicated, loyal agent and U.S. Marine whose commitment to protecting our communities in south Texas should serve as an example to us all. By renaming this checkpoint we want to ensure that his faithful service to our nation will never be forgotten.” “Agent Javier Vega, Jr. represented the very best of America, and the very best of the United States Border Patrol,” Rep. Carter said. “For Agent Vega, there was no “off the clock” – he devoted his entire life to public service, selflessly defending our southern border. Agent Vega made the ultimate sacrifice, protecting his family and upholding the law when attacked by two illegal aliens. I am proud to have worked with my Texas colleagues to rename the Sarita checkpoint for Agent Vega, a tribute to his dedication and faithful service to our nation. Texas will never forget his faithfulness and bravery. May God bless all of our Border Patrol Agents and their families.” “Javier Vega dedicated himself to public service, and his sacrifice in defense of his country and his family will never be forgotten,” said Rep. Vela. “We owe Mr. Vega and his family an immeasurable debt of gratitude.” “Our nation was blessed to have such a dedicated public servant in Agent Vega,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Even when not in uniform, Agent Vega exemplified the selflessness and devotion to public safety that makes an extraordinary agent, and this will help honor his service and sacrifice.” “Agent Javier Vega dedicated his life to the service of our nation, and the great state of Texas,” Sen. Cruz said. “I applaud the House’s passage of this bill, which Sen. John Cornyn and I cosponsored in the Senate. The bill will rename the checkpoint where Agent Vega and his dog ‘Goldie,’ selflessly ensured the safety and security of our border. I urge President Trump to swiftly sign this bill into law, to ensure Agent Vega’s life and legacy will always be remembered.” Agent Vega was fishing in Raymondville, Texas in 2014 when he was murdered while protecting his family from two individuals suspected of ties to transnational organized crime. Agent Vega’s death was not immediately classified as a line of duty fatality, even though he was responding to a clear violation of law at the time of his death. Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Vela (TX-34) sent a letter on October 30, 2015, and again with U.S. Reps. Michael McCaul (TX-10) and John Carter (TX-31) on September 16, 2016, urging U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske to reclassify Agent Vega’s death to allow his family to receive the corresponding benefits afforded public safety officers who are killed in the line of duty. On September 21, 2016, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection announced the decision to reclassify Agent Vega’s death as a line of duty fatality. Full text of the bill is here.
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today the House Homeland Security Committee passed H.R. 3548, the Border Security For America Act, by a vote of 18-12. Introduced by Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), and with 70 cosponsors, the landmark legislation will better protect our homeland by strengthening the security of our borders and ports of entry. Chairman McCaul: "The U.S. Constitution enumerates Congress’ authority to provide for the common defense of our nation. Today the Committee passed legislation that will protect our homeland by strengthening the security of our borders. This is a 21st Century, multi-layered approach, which authorizes $10 billion for the construction of a border wall, $5 billion for the modernization of our ports of entry, provides other tactical infrastructure and cutting-edge technology, puts more boots on the ground, and better empowers the Department of Homeland Security’s Secretary to take other necessary actions to secure the border. We have been talking about border security for many years. Now that we finally have a partner in the White House who has prioritized this issue, it’s time for Congress to do its part and get the job done. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both chambers to get this bill to the President’s desk so we can finally provide the American people with the security they have long demanded and deserve."Senator Cornyn: “We can’t expect law enforcement to curb illegal immigration without equipping them with the tools they need to secure our border. Our plan takes a multilayered approach by authorizing a strategic combination of physical infrastructure, personnel, and technology along the border. I commend the Committee for taking this critical first step, and I look forward to continuing my work with Chairman McCaul to advance our border security solution."NOTE: In early August, Chairman McCaul and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) penned a joint op-ed on their Committees’ efforts to strengthen our nation’s border security and to better enforce our immigration laws.
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following the House passage of the Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017. Congressman McCaul: “The Texas delegation will continue to fight for those who have lost so much in the wake of Hurricane Harvey and are now on the long road to recovery. I am proud to support the passage of today’s legislation that will further assist in recovery efforts by providing those affected by the storm with access to the capital needed in this dire time. This critical legislation removes financial roadblocks existing under current law, prioritizes recovery over penalties, and incentivizes more people to donate to ongoing relief efforts. Congress must continue to put people before paper to ensure we give Texas families the tools needed to rebuild their lives.” The bill would provide tax credits, deductions, and other relief to taxpayers in disaster areas affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. Specifically, this legislation allows taxpayers to deduct more of the losses on property related to the hurricanes. It also allows individuals to access retirement funds without a penalty and increases the size of loans an individual can take from their employment retirement fund. Businesses affected by the hurricane would also be given a tax credit if they were rendered inoperable yet retained their employees. Lastly, this bill also temporarily suspends limitations on the tax deduction for charitable contributions associated with qualified hurricane relief. ###
09.27.2017	Washington, D.C. - Securing our borders is first and foremost a national security issue. Today, Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) announced the House Homeland Security Committee will mark up the Border Security For America Act next week. This legislation calls for a historic, multi-layered defense system, including building additional physical barriers, including wall, levee wall, fencing, technology, as well a surge in personnel. The bill targets illegal immigration and drug and human trafficking at our ports of entry and identifies visa overstays through full deployment of the Biometric Entry-Exit System. It also supports local law enforcement through increases in resources to aggressively fight crimes on the southern border. Chairman McCaul: “Next week, the Committee will mark up the Border Security for America Act, a smart multi-layered approach to strengthen our nation’s borders and ports of entry. This bill will provide the Department of Homeland Security the tools necessary to achieve full operational control and situational awareness of the border by providing for a wall, cutting edge technology, and more boots on the ground. We have been talking about border security for years. “Now that we have a partner in the White House who has made this a top priority, it’s time to send a bill to President Trump’s desk so we can deliver the American people the security they have long demanded and deserve.”Additional resources on the Border Security For America Act: Executive Summary Legislative Text Section-by-Section Amendment in the Nature of a Substitute Press Release Markup of H.R. 3548NOTE: In early August, Chairman McCaul and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) penned a joint op-ed on their Committees' efforts to strengthen our nation's border security and to better enforce our immigration laws. ###
09.21.2017	HOUSTON, TX – Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI), U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ted Cruz (R-TX), and members of the Texas Congressional delegation were in Houston today for a briefing on Hurricane Harvey recovery efforts, an aerial tour of storm devastation and flood mitigation infrastructure, and to help local residents clean out damaged homes. Congressman McCaul: “Today highlighted Congress’s commitment to the rebuilding underway after Harvey wreaked havoc on communities that millions of Texans call home. Speaker Ryan joined our delegation to reinforce our efforts and had the chance to witness what I see every time I am on the ground assisting with Harvey relief - the strength and spirit of Texans in the midst of this catastrophe. Natural disasters and devastating tragedies always test our strength, but when Texans are united there is nothing that can beat us. “Moving forward, infrastructure improvements will be critical to provide a proper initial response, while also thinking ahead for future disasters. That is why I am relentlessly working with FEMA, Governor Abbott, local officials, and my colleagues to identify options for flood mitigation to protect the Greater Houston Metro Area from future disasters.”
09.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today released the following statement on the House passage of H.R. ­­3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018. The bill provides $44.3 billion, $1.9 billion above FY17, to protect the homeland, secure the border, and provide necessary funds to respond to disasters.Chairman McCaul: “There should be no uncertainty when it comes to the safety of the American people. We must continue to ensure that all departments dedicated to keeping our country secure are fully and appropriately funded. This legislation provides the Department of Homeland Security the resources to enforce our laws and protect our people, including funding for critical programs such as natural disaster response, border and immigration enforcement, aviation security, and cybersecurity and infrastructure protection.”Key Provisions of the Bill Include: Border and Maritime Security Includes $13.8 billion for Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and $7 billion for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Provides $1.6 billion within CBP for the physical border wall construction Funds new hires within DHS as requested by the President, including 500 new Border Patrol Agents, Air and Marine Officers, 1,000 law enforcement officers, and ICE support staff Funds 44,000 detention beds, 4,676 more than in FY17 and the highest number of beds since DHS was created Funds the 287(g) program at the President’s request, including the addition of 26 new communities to the program Includes $10.5 billion for the U.S. Coast Guard, $31.7 million above FY17, which includes funding for Coast Guard acquisition, including the Polar Ice Breaking Vessel Program and Fast Response Cutters, and a 2.1% pay raise Emergency Preparedness and Response Communications In light of recent disasters, the bill provides vital funding for FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund Includes $7.3 billion for FEMA’s disaster relief account for FY18 and $2.7 billion for FEMA grant programs, such as the State Homeland Security Grant Program, Urban Area Security Initiative, and firefighter assistance grants Transportation and Protective Security Provides $7.1 billion for TSA and fully funds the Secret Service with $2 billion Oversight and Management Efficiency Provides $180.4 million to the DHS Office of Inspector General to help ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of DHS operations and management Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Protection Includes $1.8 billion for the National Protection and Programs Directorate. NOTE: Additional highlights of the bill can be found here.
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – One of the main lessons learned post-9/11 is the need for a more robust information sharing capacity among federal, state, and local authorities. While we have taken steps to improve information sharing, we must do more. Today the House passed 9 Homeland Security Committee bills to support local law enforcement, identify and mitigate threats, and strengthen information sharing. Chairman McCaul: “Providing law enforcement officials with critical information will help keep our city streets from becoming the next battlefield. These bills, among other things, help the Department of Homeland Security identify emerging threats, support state and local authorities, and strengthen and better coordinate the Department’s Intelligence Enterprise. Sixteen years after 9/11, we must continue to build upon the coordination between all levels of law enforcement to keep Americans safer.” The bills that passed the House today include: H.R. 2427 - Pathways to Improving Homeland Security at the Local Level Act, sponsored by Rep. Val Demings (D-FL), directs the Assistant Secretary for State and Local Law Enforcement to produce and disseminate an annual catalog on Department of Homeland Security training, publications, programs, and services for State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies. H.R. 2433 - Homeland Security Assessment of Terrorists Use of Virtual Currencies Act, sponsored by Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY), directs the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis to develop and disseminate a threat assessment regarding terrorist use of virtual currency. H.R. 2442 - FIRST State and Local Law Enforcement Act, sponsored by Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), requires an annual report on the Office for State and Local Law Enforcement. H.R. 2443 - Department of Homeland Security Classified Facility Inventory Act, sponsored by Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA), requires the Secretary to maintain an inventory of all classified facilities across the United States and to ensure that appropriate federal, state and local personnel are aware of such locations to enhance their ability to review and discuss classified information. H.R. 2453 - DHS Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program Act of 2017, sponsored by Rep. Mike Gallagher (R-WI), requires the Secretary to establish the “Intelligence Rotational Assignment Program'' to provide greater opportunities for intelligence analysts across the Department to cross-train and develop homeland security intelligence expertise. H.R. 2454 - Department of Homeland Security Data Framework Act of 2017 sponsored by Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX), authorizes the DHS Data Framework, an ongoing initiative to connect the data sets collected by DHS component agencies to improve vetting capability and intelligence analysis.H.R. 2468 - Unifying DHS Intelligence Enterprise Act, sponsored by Rep. Scott Perry (R-PA), requires the Secretary to develop and disseminate a written Department-wide intelligence doctrine regarding the processing, analysis, production, and dissemination of homeland security information and terrorism information.H.R. 2470 - Homeland Threat Assessment Act, sponsored by Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), requires the Department to produce an annual threat assessment utilizing Departmental information to identify emerging and persistent threats to the United States, including border, cyber, and transportation security.H.R. 2471 - TRACER Act, Sponsored by Rep. John Rutherford (R-FL), directs the Secretary to engage in a consistent, proactive information sharing process by coordinating with appropriate federal officials and reaching out to fusion centers and other law enforcement entities with release information related to certain federal inmates incarcerated for terror-related offenses.
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the House concurred to the Senate amendments to H.R. 601. Congressman McCaul: “It is essential that Congress act immediately to assist those who lost everything during Hurricane Harvey’s historic rainfall and devastating flooding in Texas. Today’s vote provides a total of $15.25 billion in relief funding and is the first of several aid packages promised to the people of Texas. It gives Governor Abbott the flexibility to allocate the funds where Texans need it the most. I was proud to support this bill so my constituents and fellow Texans can begin rebuilding their homes, lives, and communities, and I pledge to continue working with President Trump, Governor Abbott, and my colleagues in Congress to provide the full disaster funding needed. I have been amazed throughout this catastrophe by the incredible heart and strength displayed by Texas, but today was Congress’s turn to act, and relief is on the way.” ###
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following the House passage of initial supplemental funding for Hurricane Harvey relief. Congressman McCaul: “I am pleased the House has quickly approved the first of several promised aid packages to help Texans recover and rebuild after Harvey’s devastation. This initial down payment is just the beginning, and I look forward to continuing to work with the President and my colleagues to ensure Texas has the resources it needs to help those who have lost so much. After being on the ground in Houston last week, meeting with evacuees, thanking our local heroes, assessing the damage, and providing my assistance, I have never been more proud of my state and country. The heart, strength, and determination of Texans, coupled with the outpouring support from Americans across the country, reminds us all that Texas will be stronger than ever before.” ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of Homeland Security, released the below statement following the Trump administration's announcement to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: Congressman McCaul: “The administration's announcement today restores the rule of law. As I have said many times, immigration changes can only be made by an Act of Congress as enumerated in Article 1, Sections 1 and 8 of the Constitution; not through executive action as the prior administration did. This is the only way to adhere to and respect the separation of powers. Congress is already taking steps to improve our immigration enforcement and border security, and I look forward to continuing to work with this administration.” ###
09.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the initial efforts for Hurricane Harvey relief. Congressman McCaul: “While I am pleased Congress will have an opportunity to vote soon on this first down payment for our relief efforts, I will continue to work relentlessly to ensure that we rebuild Texas as soon as possible and support those who have lost so much. "After being on the grounds assessing the damage and providing my assistance, I have never been more proud of my state – Texans helping Texans – and I have never been more proud of my country with the outpouring support during this tragedy.” ###
08.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of Homeland Security, applauds President Trump’s swift approval of Governor Abbott’s request for an expedited major disaster declaration on behalf of the Texas counties impacted by Hurricane Harvey. This came after McCaul sent a letter to the President urging his authorization of the Governor’s request. This Major Disaster Declaration for Texas triggers the release of Federal funds to help individuals and communities respond to and recover from Hurricane Harvey. Congressman McCaul: “Hurricane Harvey is anticipated to cause untold damages and hardships to countless Texans, including many of my constituents. As vast as Texas is, simply put, the collective resources of all of our jurisdictions and voluntary organizations are not adequate on their own to deal with this historic hurricane. These new funds released to help Texans respond to and recover from Harvey’s impact will be greatly beneficial and lifesaving. I thank President Trump for his swift authorization of these funds on the heels of my letter.” ###
08.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of Homeland Security, sent a letter today to President Trump urging the approval of Governor Abbott’s request for an expedited major disaster declaration on behalf of the Texas counties impacted by Hurricane Harvey. “This Category 3 storm is anticipated to cause untold damages and hardships to countless Texans, including many of my constituents,” McCaul writes in the letter. “Forecasts show the likelihood of heavy and sustained rainfall at levels that will surely cause flooding, in addition to storm surges and high winds. As vast as the state is, simply put, the resources of these people, the jurisdictions, the state, and voluntary organizations will not be adequate on their own. The Governor has determined that this event is of such severity and magnitude that effective response is beyond the capabilities of the state and the affected local governments, and has requested Individual Assistance and debris removal and emergency protective measures…” McCaul continues to say. To read the full letter, click here. ###
08.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), and a senior Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement commending President Trump’s strategy for the war in Afghanistan.Chairman McCaul: "Recent attacks across Europe and the upcoming anniversary of 9/11 remind us that radical Islamist terrorists are fully committed to attacking America and our allies. Tonight, President Trump spoke with a clear determination and articulated a new, multi-faceted strategy that will allow us to achieve victory in Afghanistan and better protect our homeland. "We cannot repeat the same mistake the Obama administration made when they prematurely withdrew all troops from Iraq, leaving behind a power vacuum for ISIS to exploit and inspire Islamist extremists all around the world. A new military strategy is essential to winning this fight. And, as the president stated, we must continue to pursue diplomatic, economic and other measures with our allies in the region and around the world to deny our enemies valuable resources, while pressuring Pakistan to stop providing safe havens to terrorists. "I strongly commend President Trump and his national security team for this new approach. This must be an international effort, but with American leadership, I am confident we can stamp out terrorism wherever it exists.” ###
08.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – applauds President Trump for signing RACE for Children Act (Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity for Children Act) into law. RACE will now allow the most innovative adult treatments for cancer to be studied for use in children. Congressman McCaul: “Today is a big win for children suffering with cancer – the number one cause of pediatric deaths. The RACE for Children Act is now law, giving these children a hope for the future. The legislative process is not always easy, but achieving significant victories such as this one for our children is one of the most rewarding aspects of my job. I founded the Childhood Cancer Caucus when I first entered Congress because I believe it is incumbent upon each of us – especially those elected to serve – to do our part to rid this world of cancer, for the sake of my children and yours. I’d like to thank everyone who helped to push this legislation over the finish line, including my dear friend Sadie Keller who always reminds me that ‘together we can make a difference,’ and today is proof of that.” The RACE for Children Act, which was first introduced in the 114th Congress, specifically updates the 2003 PREA law – the Pediatric Research Equity Act, which requires studies of adult drugs in children during the drug development process. While PREA has been successful in hundreds of cases in providing critical information on a drug’s use in children, it has never been applied to a cancer drug. RACE gives the FDA the authority to require a pediatric investigation into an adult drug if it uses molecular targeting, and the same target is “substantively relevant” to the growth of a pediatric cancer. ###
08.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released a letter in response to Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS) and the Democrat Members’ call for a hearing on the threat of domestic terrorism on the heels of the tragedy in Charlottesville, Virginia. McCaul announced that the Committee will hold a hearing on September 12th and has invited witnesses of the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI, and the National Counterterrorism Center. The signed letter is available, here. The text of the letter follows: August 16, 2017 The Honorable Bennie Thompson Ranking Member Committee on Homeland Security H2-117 Ford House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Ranking Member Thompson: Thank you for your August 15th letter regarding the heinous attack in Charlottesville, Virginia that claimed the life of Heather Heyer and injured many others. We must stand together and reject racism, bigotry, and prejudice, including the hateful ideologies promoted by Neo-Nazis, the KKK, and all other white supremacy groups. They do not define who we are as Americans and their repulsive values must not be allowed to infect our neighborhoods and spread violence in our communities. On September 12th, we will hold a full committee hearing and have invited the leaders of the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the National Counterterrorism Center to discuss the most serious threats America faces. I strongly encourage Members of both parties to engage the witnesses on the dangers posed by domestic terrorists and other extremist groups. Racial intolerance deserves no place in America and it is imperative that we find ways to rid our nation of the scourge of white supremacism. I am grateful for your dedication to protecting the American people from the ever-growing number of threats confronting the United States and I look forward to discussing the matters raised in your letter further as we continue our efforts to find bipartisan solutions and keep our homeland safe. Sincerely, MICHAEL T. MCCAUL Chairman ###
08.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) announced that his office will be participating in the 2017 Congressional App Challenge. Congressman McCaul: “The Congressional App Challenge is another great opportunity to showcase the amazing talent among students throughout the 10th Congressional District of Texas. In the first two years, this competition has reached nearly 4,000 students across 33 states. We must continue to invest in our students’ STEM education by providing these types of opportunities that encourage them to exercise those skills. I look forward to seeing this year’s entries and encourage all high school age students to consider submitting their application for the chance to have their creation showcased on a national stage.” The Congressional App Challenge is open to all students who have not yet graduated from high school and are residing in the 10th Congressional District of Texas. Amazon Web Services (AWS) has generously donated $50,000 in AWS credits to be divided among the winning students. This donation will give students access to the renowned tech platform and will substantially boost their ability to pursue their STEM education. Additionally, the winning student will be invited to the U.S. Capitol. Our office will help facilitate their Washington, D.C. experience. The winning apps put on display in the U.S. Capitol Building, on house.gov, and on congressionalappchallenge.us. Applications can be submitted anytime between July 26th, 2017 and November 1st, 2017. On the website, you will find the guidelines. Winners will be announced in December. Background The Congressional App Challenge, now in its third year, takes place from July through early November. It was created because Congress recognized that STEM skills, and particularly those surrounding coding and computer science, are essential for America’s economic growth and innovation. In the past few years, the U.S. has been falling behind in our competitive ability to train enough people to meet demand – and the gap is expanding. Encouraging students to learn the skills required for app development improves their long-term employment prospects, and will help fill the expanding gap between the tech labor force and employer demand. To maintain American competitiveness, it’s crucial that the U.S. invests in our students’ STEM and CS education, and provides them with the opportunity and encouragement to exercise those skills. That is something that students in every district in our nation deserve. For more information, please contact McCaul’s Austin office at (512) 473-2357 or visit our website at McCaul.house.gov
07.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the President's appointment of General John F. Kelly to serve as White House Chief of Staff: Chairman Michael McCaul: "General John Kelly is an excellent choice to serve as White House Chief of Staff. I am confident this battle-tested general's leadership will be a major asset to the President. During his tenure at the Department of Homeland Security, he has been a true leader and has been laser focused on finally securing our borders, enforcing our immigration laws, and defeating terrorism. He has also been a dedicated ally in helping pass the first ever DHS reauthorization and supporting other key security-focused legislation. I look forward to continuing to work closely with him to combat the most crucial homeland security challenges facing America. "In his stead, I am fully confident Deputy Secretary Elaine Duke will be a stellar acting Secretary and look after the best interests of our security and all the hardworking personnel at DHS."
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – As the United States faces new and evolving threats to our national security, a strong, smart, multi-layered approach at our nation’s borders is required. Today House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced the Border Security for America Act. This legislation calls for building additional physical barriers, which includes wall, levee wall, fencing, technology, as well a surge in personnel. The bill targets illegal immigration and drug and human trafficking at our ports of entry and identifies visa overstays through full deployment of the Biometric Entry-Exit System. It also supports local law enforcement through increases in resources to aggressively fight crimes on the southern border. The recent tragedy in San Antonio, Texas highlights the porous nature of our border and the sad reality that can come from not properly securing it.Chairman McCaul: “Securing our borders is first and foremost a national security issue. Illegal immigrants, smugglers, and drug cartels continue to infiltrate our country so we must quickly secure the homeland through infrastructure, technology, and personnel. We are talking about a historic, multi-layered defense system that makes it nearly impossible for bad actors to slip through the cracks. We must have physical barriers—including a wall where necessary and fencing when appropriate, the right technology, and more personnel in place to enforce our laws and detain those attempting to enter illegally. Interior enforcement is another key element of our security, and I fully support Chairman Goodlatte’s Davis Oliver legislation. My bill finally provides Americans the secure border they have long demanded and deserve." Key Points of the Bill: Authorizes Border Wall – Provides $10 billion for the deployment and construction of tactical infrastructure and technology to achieve full operational control and situational awareness. This deployment includes wall, fencing, technology, air assets, and other barriers. Secures Ports of Entry – Provides $5 billion to improve, modernize, and enhance our ports of entry. It targets illegal immigration and drug trafficking at our ports while increasing lawful trade and travel. Puts More Boots on the Ground – Adds 5,000 Border Patrol Agents and 5,000 CBP Officers and streamlines the way that veterans and existing law enforcement officers can be hired. Use of the National Guard – Authorizes use of the National Guard along the southern border to help with aviation and intelligence support and allows for $35 million in reimbursement for states, like Texas, that have called out the National Guard to help secure the border. Targets Visa Overstays – Identifies visa overstays through full deployment of the Biometric Entry-Exit System at all ports of entry.​ Supports Local Law Enforcement – Doubles the Stonegarden grant program at $110 million for state and local law enforcement to aggressively fight drug trafficking, smuggling, and other crimes on the southern border.
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – applauded Senate’s passage of the House bill H.R. 3364, the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. Congressman McCaul: “I applaud the Senate’s swift passage of this sanctions package in uniformity with the House. Adversarial nations such as Iran, Russia, and North Korea need to know their provocative and destabilizing actions will come at a hefty price. While sanctions are not the be-all end-all, I believe they are a critical tool in the arsenal to deter aggression. I now urge President Trump to move expeditiously in signing this bill into law, which will send a strong signal to all antagonistic nations that the U.S. intends to uphold international law and protect our security interests here at home and around the globe.” The Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act now heads to the President’s desk.
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – applauded the House passage of H.R. 3364, the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. H.R. 3364 increases economic and political pressure on America’s three main adversaries (Iran, Russia, and North Korea) by expanding sanctions against them for violations of international law and acts of aggression that undermine the security of the U.S and regional stability. Specifically, this bill imposes tough new sanction on Iran for its ballistic missile tests, gross human rights abuses, and support for terrorism. This bill also expands sanctions against Russia for its interference in our election, continued malicious cyberattacks, and its intervention in Ukraine. Lastly, this bill expands sanctions on North Korea for its continued nuclear and missile provocations that pose a significant threat to the U.S. and our allies. Click here to watch McCaul’s floor speech in support of this bill. Congressman McCaul: “The passage of this sanctions bill sends a clear message to our adversaries that there will be consequences for blatant acts of aggression that undermine U.S. interests and peace and stability abroad. I cannot overstate the importance of these sanctions. They come at a time when Iran continues to fuel instability through its support for terror proxies in the region, North Korea gets closer to obtaining the ability to mount a nuclear warhead on an ICBM, and Russia continues to launch malicious cyberattacks and disinformation campaigns against the U.S. and our allies to influence our democratic process. A failure to act now will guarantee one thing – future misbehavior. As such, I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and the administration on efforts aimed at deterring such aggression from our adversaries in the future, and restoring U.S. leadership on the global stage.”
07.24.2017	WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) and U.S. Congressmen John Carter (TX-31), Michael McCaul (TX-10), and Filemon Vela (TX-34) today introduced bills to honor the fallen U.S. Border Patrol Agent Javier Vega, Jr. for his service by renaming the Border Patrol checkpoint where he was assigned, along U.S. Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, after him. “Our nation was blessed to have such a dedicated public servant in Agent Vega,” said Sen. Cornyn. “Even when not in uniform, Agent Vega exemplified the selflessness and devotion to public safety that makes an extraordinary agent, and this will help honor his service and sacrifice.” “Agent Javier Vega loved his family, loved Texas and loved his country,” Sen. Cruz said. “He should be remembered as a hero, having dedicated his life to defending our great nation. Agent Vega first served in the Marines, and went on to serve as a canine handler at the Texas Border Patrol station in Kingsville, Texas. In a horrific attack by two criminal aliens, Agent Vega’s life was taken protecting his family. I am honored to join Sen. Cornyn in this effort to honor his dedicated service to our country and to Texas. This bill will honor Agent Vega at the place where he and his dog “Goldie” selflessly served to ensure safety and security at our border.” “We must honor those who put their lives on the line every day to ensure our security,” said Rep. Carter. “I proudly support the effort to name the Sarita, Texas Border Patrol checkpoint in remembrance of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Javier Vega, Jr. who gave the ultimate sacrifice while defending himself and his family from two criminal illegal aliens. He faithfully served our great nation, and the US Border Patrol in south Texas. The tragedy of his death must not be forgotten.” “Our Border Patrol Agents put their lives on the line daily to protect our homeland and keep Americans safe,” said Rep. McCaul. “As Chairman of Homeland Security, I am proud to support this bill to rename the Sarita, Texas Border Patrol checkpoint the Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint in honor of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Javier Vega, Jr. who was murdered by two illegal criminal aliens while defending his family. Agent Vega is remembered as a dedicated and loyal agent and U.S. Marine whose commitment to protecting our communities in south Texas should serve as an example to us all. Thank you to all of our agents along our borders for your service and the sacrifices you and your families make every day. To Agent Vega’s family, I want you to know his faithful service to our nation will not be forgotten.” “United States Border Patrol Agent Javier Vega devoted his life to serving our nation,” said Rep. Vela. “Renaming the Sarita checkpoint for Agent Vega will honor that dedication, serving as a tribute to his heroism and sacrifice.” Agent Vega was fishing in Raymondville, Texas in 2014 when he was murdered while protecting his family from two individuals suspected of ties to transnational organized crime. Agent Vega’s death was not immediately classified as a line of duty fatality, even though he was responding to a clear violation of law at the time of his death. Sen. Cornyn and Rep. Vela (TX-34) sent a letter on October 30, 2015, and again with U.S. Reps. Michael McCaul (TX-10) and John Carter (TX-31) on September 16, 2016, urging U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner R. Gil Kerlikowske to reclassify Agent Vega’s death to allow his family to receive the corresponding benefits afforded public safety officers who are killed in the line of duty. On September 21, 2016, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection announced the decision to reclassify Agent Vega’s death as a line of duty fatality. Full text of the bill is here. ###
07.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following the attacks of September 11, 2001, our nation’s leaders created the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to better protect our country. Fifteen years later, the Department still has not been reauthorized by Congress. Reforming and improving DHS through a first-ever comprehensive reauthorization is key to staying ahead of ever-evolving threats. Today, under the bipartisan leadership of House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS), and seven other Committee Chairmen with jurisdiction over DHS, the House passed H.R. 2825, the Department of Homeland Security Authorization Act of 2017, which is on track to be the first-ever reauthorization of the Department. The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support of 386-41. Chairman McCaul: “Our adversaries are determined to attack us and disrupt our way of life. To stay ahead of America’s threats, we need a national security apparatus that can best adapt to new challenges as they arise. The threats we face have evolved in the past 15 years, and we must not only keep up with the evolution of the threats, we need to stay in front of them. The American people deserve the strongest possible and most efficient Department of Homeland Security, and this legislation will help provide just that. “Today’s reauthorization of the Department is a major bipartisan accomplishment and an example of what Congress can achieve when we put the safety and security of our country ahead of partisan politics. I would like to thank Secretary Kelly for his leadership on this important issue, as well as Speaker Ryan, Majority Leader McCarthy, and the entire leadership team. Other House Committee Chairmen with jurisdiction over DHS and members of the Homeland Security Committee on both sides of the aisle, especially Ranking Member Thompson, were also vital in coordinating this effort.”Ranking Member Thompson: "Today's passage of bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Department of Homeland Security will help us ensure, nearly 16 years after the September 11th attacks, that DHS is positioned to carry out its diverse mission and support Homeland Security capabilities at the State and local level. This bill places an emphasis on bolstering acquisitions management, employee engagement, policy-making, stakeholder engagement, and civil rights and civil liberties. I am particularly pleased that when it comes to first responder grant programs, it provides significant resources to state and local jurisdictions to prepare for potential attacks or disasters. I am proud of the work that went into this legislation from my Committee colleagues on both sides of the aisle and I want to thank Chairman McCaul for his commitment to an open and bipartisan process."Note: Earlier this year, under the signature of Speaker Ryan, Chairmen of eight different Committees came together to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in support of a reauthorization of DHS Headquarters and its components on a regular basis. When this reauthorization moves forward and is signed into law, it will be the first time in 15 years the Department of Homeland Security has been reauthorized.
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – applauded the decision by the Trump Administration to impose new sanctions on individuals and entities helping fuel Iran’s destabilizing activities. On July 18, 2017, the Trump Administration announced new sanctions on Iran effective immediately to continue to address Iran’s malign and destabilizing activities. These sanctions target entities supporting the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), Iran’s military procurement, and Iran’s ballistic missile program. The sanctions will also hold Iran accountable to renewing their compliance with the JCPOA (Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action). The purpose of the JCPOA agreement is to bring “regional and international peace and security.” Congressman McCaul: “I applaud the Trump Administration’s reversal of U.S. policy towards Iran to address transgressions the previous administration chose to ignore. I have long stated that any nuclear deal that provides sanctions relief to the regime without addressing its support for terrorism, human rights abuses, and ballistic missile testing is a flawed agreement not worth the paper it is written on. Today’s actions taken by President Trump to sanction entities and individuals for supporting the IRGC and Iranian military’s malign activities is a great first step in the right direction and shows the Ayatollahs the U.S. will no longer turn a blind eye to actions that undermine regional stability and U.S. interests abroad. Iran’s status as the world’s leading State Sponsor of Terrorism was not bestowed to it undeservingly and failing to hold the regime accountable only encourages future aggression. I will continue to work with the Trump Administration to place pressure where needed until the Iranian regime takes seriously the international laws they currently flout on a regular basis.” ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee – applauded the House passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (NDAA). Congressman McCaul: “The threats we face today are more complex than ever before and demand strong U.S. leadership. I applaud the passage of the FY18 NDAA, which restores our nation’s military readiness and bolsters our nation’s offensive and defensive military capabilities. This bill also provides the necessary support to our men and women serving valiantly in our armed forces here at home and abroad. Bottom line, the world is not becoming any safer. Our adversaries are working around the clock to exploit our vulnerabilities and undermine our national security. As such, we must enhance our capabilities to deter future aggression, protect our borders, and respond when necessary to any threat that poses a danger to the safety and security of the American people and our allies. Gone are the years of indecisiveness - when Washington’s reluctance signaled weakness to the rest of the world. I look forward to continuing to work with Congress and this administration to strengthen and modernize our military.” ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement after the House passed – with his support - three bills to combat human trafficking, including the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017. H.R. 2200 - the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2017 – is a whole-of-government approach to combat human trafficking by building upon current law. It places a renewed focus on prevention of modern-day slavery through training and education in key industries such as travel and hospitality. Specifically, this bill would reauthorize existing programing and funds for international and domestic anti-human trafficking efforts. This is the fifth reauthorization of the original bill, Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (TVPA), which is the cornerstone of current U.S. policy on combatting international and domestic human trafficking. Congressman McCaul: “As I have repeatedly said, human trafficking is a deplorable violation of human rights perpetuated by criminals who use false promises and other tactics to exploit the vulnerable. In my home state of Texas alone, there is an astounding 300,000 individuals, including nearly 80,000 minors, who have fallen victim to human trafficking. This is unacceptable. We must remain vigilant in our efforts to combat such evil and I applaud the passage of this bill, a critical step in the right direction to provide the necessary support to those best positioned to detect and prevent such gross violations.” ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Michael T. McCaul (R-TX-10) and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) released the following statements after their bipartisan bill, H.R. 1231 - RACE for Children Act (Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity for Children Act) - passed the House as part of H.R. 2430 - the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017. Congressman McCaul: “I founded the Childhood Cancer Caucus when I first entered Congress to give a voice to the over 15,000 children diagnosed with cancer each year and the hundreds of thousands of survivors who face a lifetime of medical challenges. Today’s passage of RACE is a great first step in providing these children access to the treatments they deserve. I believe it is incumbent upon each of us – especially those elected to serve – to do our part to rid this world of cancer, for the sake of my children and yours. As my good friend Sadie Keller - who is battling leukemia - says, ‘together we can make a difference.’” Click here to watch McCaul’s two-minute floor speech in support of the bill. Congressman Butterfield: “As co-chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I am proud that the House approved this important bill. This legislation is necessary to update the law and save thousands of children’s lives. I thank Congressman McCaul for being a reliable partner in this effort. This is an example of Congress working together to get things done. I urge the U.S. Senate to swiftly pass this legislation so the medical community can continue making strides in the fight against childhood cancer.” Reps. McCaul and Butterfield re-introduced the RACE for Children Act in March. The RACE for Children Act, which was first introduced in the 114th Congress, would update the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to reflect the latest advances in cancer drug development using molecular targets. Unlike the current structure of PREA, which applies to specific indications or specific types of cancer, this legislation would allow PREA to focus on a molecular target in a specific adult cancer when the same target presents in another childhood cancer. Currently, a PREA exemption may also be applied if the company studies the drug in an adult cancer that occurs in less than 200,000 patients. This bill would allow pediatric studies with a particular molecular target to still be considered for these cancers. The bill is supported by the MD Anderson Cancer Center, Texas Children’s Hospital, Duke University Medical Center, Children's Medical Center of Dallas, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Children’s Hospital Colorado, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Nemours Children’s Health System, NYU Langone Medical Center, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, and more than 100 pediatric cancer advocacy organizations. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement following the administration’s announcement of new sanctions on multiple Chinese entities and individuals that act as channels for illicit North Korean financial activity. Chairman McCaul: “I have continually called for the United States to do more to hold North Korea’s financiers accountable, and today the President took action. With the imposition of these sanctions, the Trump Administration sent a clear message to the world that there will be a price to pay for putting business interests with this belligerent regime ahead of the national security of the U.S. and our allies. However, we cannot stop here. We must remain diligent in holding the international community’s feet to the fire and continue using all diplomatic means necessary to encourage nations with leverage over the Hermit Kingdom to step up - not in the name of U.S. national security, but in the name of global security. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement following the House passage of Kate’s Law and No Sanctuary for Criminals Act. Chairman McCaul: “As a former prosecutor and Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, one of my top priorities is and has always been public safety, and today the House took a major step forward in that direction by passing Kate’s Law and No Sanctuary for Criminals Act. Kate’s Law is named after Kate Steinle, the 32-year-old woman who was shot and killed two years ago in San Francisco while she walked along a pier with her father. The shooter was an unlawful immigrant who had previously been deported five times and was convicted of multiple felonies. Sadly, Kate’s story is far too common and these horrific events cannot become the norm. Kate’s Law will increase the penalties for illegal immigrants reentering the United States who previously have been convicted of crimes, deterring illegal reentry and ultimately safeguarding our communities. In addition to Kate’s shooter being a criminal alien, he was also released by local authorities despite his ICE detainer because he was in a “sanctuary city.” No Sanctuary for Criminals Act will help ensure this blatant disregard for the law will not happen again. This bill prevents states and localities who fail to cooperate with ICE from receiving certain Department of Justice or Department of Homeland Security grants. We are a nation of laws, laws that are established to keep Americans safe, and individuals in defiance of those laws must be held responsible.” ###
06.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement on the death of Otto Warmbier. Chairman McCaul: “I send my deepest condolences to Otto Warmbier's family, friends, and loved ones, and stand with the President and my colleagues in Congress in condemning this act of gross negligence. The untimely passing of Otto is a direct result of North Korea’s disregard for basic human decency and is a further example of why this belligerent regime must be tempered.” ###
06.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement following the Trump administration’s decision to rescind the former administration’s Cuba policy. Chairman McCaul: “I applaud President Trump’s decision to rescind former President Obama’s misguided policy of appeasement towards the Castro regime. This policy did nothing to advance the economic and human rights condition of the Cuban people, who have long suffered under the regime’s oppressive, dictatorial rule. While there may be room for future cooperation between our countries, we cannot and should not diminish the plight of those in Cuba by rewarding despotism.” ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – spoke on the House floor in support of the Verify First Act, a bill he helped introduce with Congressman Lou Barletta (PA-11), which would protect taxpayer dollars. Following the speech, the bill passed the House. Click here to watch the speech (1:25 minutes). Read the full transcript: “I rise today in strong support of H.R. 2581, the Verify First Act. I helped introduce this legislation with my good friend and colleague, Mr. Barletta from Pennsylvania, to ensure illegal immigrants are not able to use health care tax credits to purchase health insurance. Under Obamacare, the federal government paid these tax credits up front on a temporary basis to people before verifying their immigration status. This created a “pay and chase” system where the federal government would seek repayment only after it found it had paid out benefits to an illegal immigrant. This bill puts an end to this taxpayer abuse by requiring the Social Security Administration or the Department of Homeland Security to verify the immigration status of every tax credit applicant before the Treasury Department issues the credit. Texans and hard-working taxpayers around the country already struggle to pay for their health care. Their hard-earned dollars should not be used to foot the bill for those who broke the law to come here. My constituents in Texas and American taxpayers deserve better. I want to thank Congressman Barletta for his dedication and continued leadership on this issue. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement following the House passage of the Financial CHOICE Act to grow our economy in Texas. Chairman McCaul: “I am proud to have helped the House pass the Financial CHOICE Act today. While this bill focuses on growing the economy in several different ways, I want to highlight its focus on reviving the role our community banks and local credit unions play in jump starting our small businesses and entrepreneurs. The disastrous Dodd-Frank Act severely hindered our community banks with unnecessary compliance costs and regulations, as well as many other industries including farming communities and small business owners of Main Street since its enactment in 2011. The Financial CHOICE Act repeals the job-suppressing regulations created by the Dodd-Frank Act and will provide much needed relief to hard-working Texans and our communities. This is a bill that is crucial to the growth of our American economy, and I commend fellow Texan Chairman Jeb Hensarling and his colleagues on the Financial Services Committee for their determined and persevering efforts to eliminate these burdensome regulations that are stifling American job creators.” Key Points of this legislation Include: A more level playing field for our community banks which is critical to so many Americans. During Dodd-Frank, they were constrained by the mountain of regulations created by the law, despite many of these regulations not actually addressing the issues that caused the financial crisis. Ends “too big to fail” taxpayer-funded bailouts by creating new language within our bankruptcy code on how to accommodate the failure of a large, complex financial institution. This also ensures that taxpayers are not on the hook. Protects consumers by imposing the stiffest penalties for financial fraud, self-dealing, promoting greater transparency and accountability in the civil enforcement process. For more on this bill, click here. Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
06.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) announced that Abigail Ott of Spring, TX has been selected as the overall winner for Texas’s Tenth Congressional District in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Abigail’s artwork, titled Summer of Shakes, will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Congressman McCaul: “I was very impressed with the quality of artwork we received this year from TX-10. Specifically, congratulations to Abigail for being chosen as this year’s winner. Her artwork will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for the next year among some of the best student artwork from around the country. I also want to commend runner-ups Diego and Emily for their outstanding art pieces. These accomplishments are a true testament to their artistic skill and it makes me proud to know such promising talent resides in the 10th District of Texas.” This year, 30 students from around the district participated in the TX-10 Congressional Art Competition. Below are this year’s 2nd place winner and People’s Choice Award: 2nd Place Winner Diego Carlson from Pflugerville High School Title of artwork: Come and Take It People’s Choice Award This award was given to the artwork with the most “likes” on Facebook. Emily Yang from Cypress Ranch High School Title of artwork: A Movement in Grace Background The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in Texas’s 10th district and throughout the country. Since it began in 1982 as an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition.
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Human trafficking is a heinous form of modern-day slavery that continues to exploit thousands, despite the tireless efforts of law enforcement, advocacy groups, and government agencies like the Department of Homeland Security. Today’s bipartisan bill, H.R. 1370, the Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017, introduced by House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), authorizes an important effort at the Department aimed at combating human trafficking. The Blue Campaign provides tools to federal, state, and local law enforcement as well as private sector organizations to increase awareness of the signs of human trafficking. H.R. 1370, the Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign Authorization Act of 2017, passed the House by voice vote. Chairman McCaul: “Human trafficking is a horrific crime that is an affront to America’s core values, a gross violation of human rights, and a matter of national security. The bipartisan bill the House passed today helps protect victims of human trafficking and bolsters law enforcement resources to better identify and defend against this tragic situation and the threat it poses." Key Points of this Legislation Include: H.R. 1370 authorizes the Department of Homeland Security’s efforts to deter, detect, and mitigate instances of human trafficking. It provides resources that will allow DHS to continue partnering with state, local, tribal, and territorial entities to provide training on how to raise awareness of human trafficking and coordinate efforts to prevent it. This bill also directs the Department to disseminate intelligence and best practices related to human trafficking trends and mitigation efforts. Finally, the bill bolsters DHS efforts to coordinate among public and private stakeholders, including government agencies, private entities, law enforcement partners, and non-governmental organizations efforts to raise public awareness on the threat human trafficking poses to our communities nationwide.
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representative Michael T. McCaul, Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and Representative Eliot L. Engel, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, introduced a measure in the House of Representatives that underscores the importance of a United States-Mexico relationship based on mutual respect (H.Res.336). The resolution specifically calls for the deepening of our strategic alliance through increased economic and security cooperation. Congressman McCaul: “For years, the United States and Mexico have benefited from bilateral cooperation on issues critical to the national and economic security interests of our respective countries. As our third largest trading partner, we are mutually reliant on the need for a secure border and the free flow of commerce. While there are areas in our relationship that can be improved, the role Mexico plays in enhancing our security and bolstering our economy cannot be overstated. As we move forward in our relationship, we must not forget this. That is why I am proud to cosponsor this resolution to reaffirm our strong, longstanding partnership with Mexico and highlight ongoing efforts between our two countries to strengthen cooperation. A stronger relationship we have with Mexico means a stronger and safer homeland for Americans.” Congressman Engel: “It’s hard to overstate the importance of the U.S.-Mexico relationship and the enormous impact it has on Americans every single day. Mexico is a friend and an ally, our third largest trading partner and a country with which we share deep person-to-person, cultural and family ties. It is also a country with which we’ve painstakingly cultivated a vibrant, critical partnership. We’ve come too far to turn back now, and Congress must reject all efforts to downgrade our bilateral relationship.” H.Res.336 can be found here. Original cosponsors include Reps. Albio Sires (D-NJ), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Will Hurd (R-TX), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Norma Torres (D-CA), David Valadao (R-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO), Ted Poe (R-TX), Gene Green (D-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX).
05.12.2017	“I applaud the President’s signing of this cybersecurity executive order. Cybersecurity is of the utmost importance and requires continual effort and vigilance to deter and defend against the many adversaries we face. I am pleased to see the President recognize DHS’ role as the lead federal civilian agency in the protection of .gov and civilian networks. I just returned from leading a Congressional delegation to the doorstep of Russia’s cyber battleground in Estonia and Ukraine. Their leaders strongly relayed to us that Russian cyber aggression is real and they sustain intense daily cyber attacks impacting their energy and financial sectors as well as electrical grids and more. We have a lot to learn from their experiences, and I will continue to engage with those on the frontlines. Over the last several years I have helped shepherd numerous cybersecurity bills, including the landmark Cybersecurity Act of 2015, which ensured DHS has the tools it needs to better protect federal IT networks and facilitate robust cyber threat information sharing with the government and private sector. I appreciate the past engagement from the White House and Secretary Kelly on this executive order, and I look forward to robust continued engagement in its implementation. In today’s dynamic threat landscape we must all work together to combat and deter cyber aggression from all enemies so we can best protect America’s digital networks.”
05.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) released the following statement in response to the passage of Texas Senate Bill 4 into law, which bans sanctuary cities in the Lone Star State. Congressman McCaul: “We are a nation of laws and Texas showed the country this weekend that they want to keep it that way. As a fourth generation Texan, a former federal prosecutor, and the Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security, I applaud the great work of the Texas legislature and Governor Abbott on the passage of Senate Bill 4 into law, which bans sanctuary cities in the Lone Star State. Sanctuary cities flout our nation’s immigration laws by harboring illegal immigrants who have committed dangerous crimes. Elected officials do not get to choose which laws to obey. Rather, it is their duty to enforce them and it is the federal government’s responsibility to secure the border and write the immigration laws. Local officials who support sanctuary cities place our citizens in harm’s way. I am proud to represent a state that both values the rule of law and prioritizes the safety and security of its citizens.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement following the passage of the American Healthcare Act (AHCA). Congressman McCaul: “The choice before me today was clear: vote to continue with the status quo and keep the failing system of Obamacare intact or vote in support of a plan to repeal and replace it. For years, my constituents have asked me to work to repeal and replace Obamacare, and I promised them I would. Today, I kept that promise to my constituents and to the American people. I ultimately voted in support of the American Healthcare Act (AHCA) because it begins to crumble the foundation Obamacare stands on by ending the individual mandate and cutting taxes that have financially burdened hardworking Americans for years. My vote for the AHCA is the first step towards building a stronger foundation for our nation’s healthcare system. We need a market-based, patient-centered approach designed to provide affordable and accessible healthcare for all Americans. It must empower the American people to make their own choices instead of allowing unelected bureaucrats in Washington to make it for them. As the founder of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I am proud to note that the AHCA provides safeguards for people with pre-existing conditions. The bill will provide states with the flexibility to lower health insurance premium prices through a waiver that will only be given to states with high-risk pools and other protections in place. For states seeking a waiver, this bill also provides an additional $8 billion – bringing the total amount of funds to $138 billion – to allow people with pre-existing conditions who haven’t maintained continuous coverage to acquire affordable care. I look forward to continuing to work with the President and my colleagues in Congress to make good on our promise to provide affordable, accessible, and quality health care to all Americans.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – introduced the Sinai Service Recognition Act. This legislation designates the Sinai Peninsula as a “combat zone.” This label would allow the troops stationed there to receive the same tax benefits as the rest of the military. In March, Senator Cornyn introduced companion legislation in the United States Senate. Congressman McCaul: “Make no mistake, our brave men and women stationed in the Sinai Peninsula are selflessly and courageously serving in harm’s way. As ISIS and affiliated groups continue to spread throughout the region, these service members continue to stand strong on the front lines in the fight against terror. We can never fully repay the debt of gratitude owed to them for their sacrifice, but we can work to ensure they receive the same benefits afforded to military personnel in a combat zone. The Sinai Service Recognition Act is a commonsense bill that demonstrates our unwavering support for our troops who are taking the fight to the enemy in order to defend our freedom and keep our homeland safe.”
04.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) - a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee - released the below statement following the administration’s decision to launch an interagency review on the Iran nuclear deal. Chairman McCaul: “I have long stated that any nuclear deal that includes sanctions relief without addressing Iran’s support for terrorism and ballistic missile testing is a flawed deal not worth the paper it is written on. The Iranian regime is directly responsible for terror attacks that have resulted in the deaths of Americans, and to this day continues to export Iranian terror through its support of proxies such as Hamas and Hezbollah. I applaud the Trump administration for launching a review on whether continuing to lift sanctions against Iran is in the security interest of the United States. Once this review is completed, I look forward to working with the administration to take any additional steps necessary to prevent the world’s leading state sponsor of terror from endangering America and our allies.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – a senior member on the Foreign Affairs Committee – released the below statement following the U.S. military strikes in Syria. Congressman McCaul: “I commend President Trump’s decisive actions in Syria and fundamentally believe that the United States cannot and must not accept the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime on innocent civilians to become the norm. While the U.S. would prefer a political rather than a military solution to this conflict, the fact remains that you cannot negotiate with tyrants. Passiveness in Syria is what has exacerbated this situation and allowed for adversaries such as Russia and Iran to exert their influence at the expense of U.S. national security, all the while allowing ISIS to flourish. Tonight’s military strikes in Syria are a signal to the world that the days of blank threats are long gone and under this administration credibility will be restored.”
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), a senior member on the Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement following the deadly chemical attack in Idlib, Syria. Congressman McCaul: “This most recent chemical weapons attack is yet another example of why a political solution to the Syrian civil war is desperately needed. The international community must forbid the use of chemical weapons in Syria to become the new norm and do more to hold those responsible for these attacks accountable. I urge the United Nations to move swiftly to investigate this crime and join the Trump administration and the international community in the condemnation of this horrific attack on the innocent civilians caught in the middle of this brutal conflict.”
04.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the below statement regarding the Venezuelan Supreme Court’s decision to dissolve the country’s democratically elected National Assembly. Congressman McCaul: "The recent decision by the Venezuelan Supreme Court to strip the country’s National Assembly of its powers is deeply troubling and nothing more than an attempt by President Nicolás Maduro and the ruling United Socialist Party to consolidate power. The United States stands in solidarity with the Venezuelan people and urges our partners in the region to denounce this drastic step towards a dictatorship. This action is neither something the people of Venezuela want nor deserve, and the international community must speak out against it."
03.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) announced that his office will begin accepting submissions for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Congressman McCaul: “The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to showcase the artistic talent among students throughout Texas’s 10th Congressional District, and each year I continue to be impressed by the quality of work we receive. I look forward to seeing this year’s entries and encourage all high school age students to consider submitting their artwork for the chance to have their work showcased for a national audience.” The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students residing in the 10th Congressional District. The winning piece will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol along with other winners from across the country. The winner will receive two complimentary airline tickets to Washington, D.C. to view the exhibit and will also be invited to a reception for all of the winners across the nation. The second place artwork will be on display in one of our four district offices. McCaul’s office will also award the People’s Choice Award; images of the artwork will be posted on McCaul’s Facebook page, and fans will have the opportunity to vote until May 5, 2017 at 5:00 p.m. CT. The student whose artwork receives the highest number of “likes” will be designated the winner of the People’s Choice Award. Artwork entered in the contest may be up to 26 inches by 26 inches (including the frame) and may be up to 4 inches in depth and weigh up to 15 pounds. All entries must be two-dimensional and original in concept, design and execution. Eligible types of art include paintings, drawing, prints, collages, mixed media, computer generated art, and photography. Find more information and guidelines here. Artwork needs to be delivered to McCaul’s Austin, Brenham, or Tomball office by April 27, 2017. Background The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in Texas’s 10th district and throughout the country. Since it began in 1982 as an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. For more information, please contact McCaul’s Austin office at (512) 473-2357 or visit our website at McCaul.house.gov. On the website, you will find the guidelines as well as the student release form.
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) – a senior member on the Foreign Affairs Committee – supported the passage of three bipartisan measures out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee that address the urgent threats posed by the regime of North Korea’s Kim Jong Un. Specifically, these measures enhance North Korea sanctions, condemn its ICBM development, and urge the State Department to designate North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism. Click here to watch McCaul’s remarks on these bills. Read the transcript below: Congressman McCaul: “Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this morning’s markup on these legislative measures, particularly those pertaining to North Korea that I believe are critical to addressing the many foreign policy challenges currently facing the United States. I would like to express my support for the three bills that focus on the current threats emanating from the Korean Peninsula. For years, the international community has viewed North Korea’s incessant temper tantrums and provocations as little more than belligerent bluster. However, Pyongyang’s continued ballistic missile tests, including another ballistic missile engine test on Monday (the third in recent weeks), is evidence of the regime’s unrelenting quest to develop the ability to launch a nuclear attack far beyond its own backyard. Such a quest poses a real and direct threat to the national security of the United States and our allies in the region. I believe disregarding this threat as simply tough talk is extremely dangerous. Earlier this month, I authored an op-ed on steps the U.S. can take to bolster the security of the homeland and our allies in the region to counter this growing threat. Such steps included: 1. Partnering with our allies in the region to expand missile defense shields, specifically by building on the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) system already deployed in South Korea. This enhances our defenses here at home by increasing the number of ground-based interceptors on the west coast, as well as improves intelligence-gathering measures to get a clearer picture of North Korea’s arsenal. 2. I believe the U.S. should also pursue more aggressive sanctions on North Korea. We should be implementing secondary sanctions to crack down on North Korean front companies, black-market exchanges, and coal exports - all of which allow the radical regime to stay afloat despite legislation signed into law last year imposing stiff sanctions on North Korea’s illicit activities, such as counterfeiting of U.S. currency and narcotics trafficking. 3. The U.S. should place North Korea back on the State Sponsor of Terrorism list, which it should have never have left in the first place. 4. Lastly, we must work to counter-message the regime’s propaganda and redouble U.S. efforts to ensure the people of North Korea have access to information from the outside world. I am pleased to see that this committee is in lockstep with me on these issues, which is evident from the three measures pertaining to North Korea before us today. Grouped together, these pieces of legislation send a strong signal to the international community and North Korean Dictator Kim Jong Un that the U.S. will not sit idly by while its adversaries threaten the peace and security of the region and the U.S. homeland. Mr. Chairman, I look forward to supporting the passage of these bills out of this committee… I commend you for bringing this forward to send a message that North Korea is a menace that cannot be ignored and must be tempered. Thank you.” For Background: Below are the three bills: H.Res.92, introduced by Mr. Wilson, is a resolution condemning North Korea’s development of intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) and calls for the U.S. to apply additional sanctions. H.R. 1644, the Korean Interdiction and Modernization of Sanctions Act, introduced by Chairman Royce, takes it a step further by expanding sanctions to target North Korea’s billion dollar slave labor industry, as well limiting the regime’s access to much-needed international ports used to ship weapons and banned goods. H.R. 479, introduced by Mr. Poe, requires the Administration to determine whether North Korea is a state-sponsor of terrorism, which I believe is long overdue.
03.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Last week the House passed nine Homeland Security Committee bills, including a key counterterrorism bill, H.R. 1302, the Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act of 2017. Expanding on the work of last Congress, the Committee continues to advance an unprecedented number of bipartisan measures aimed at keeping Americans safe. The bills also save taxpayer dollars by improving the acquisition process at the Department of Homeland Security and make important reforms to the operations of the Transportation Security Administration. Chairman McCaul: “It is critical that we continue to re-examine our strategy, technology, and the infrastructure we currently have in place to strengthen the Department of Homeland Security and stop terrorists from reaching our shores. The evolving threats we face demand action to address vulnerabilities in our defenses. I commend the work of my Committee—particularly the bipartisan nature in which these bills were advanced—to make our country safer.” Legislation passed last week includes: H.R. 1249, DHS Multiyear Acquisition Strategy Act of 2017, introduced by Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA), amends the Homeland Security of 2002 to require a multiyear acquisition strategy of the Department of Homeland Security. H.R. 1252, DHS Acquisition Authorities Act of 2017, introduced by Rep. Clay Higgins (R-LA), amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for certain acquisition authorities for the Under Secretary of Management of the Department of Homeland Security. H.R. 1294, Reducing DHS Acquisition Cost Growth Act, introduced by Rep. John Rutherford (R-FL), amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide for congressional notification regarding major acquisition program breaches. H.R. 1309, TSA Administrator Modernization Act of 2017, introduced by Rep. John Katko (R-NY), streamlines the office and term of the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration. H.R. 1297, Quadrennial Homeland Security Review Technical Corrections Act of 2017, introduced by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to make technical corrections to the requirement that the Secretary of Homeland Security submit quadrennial homeland security reviews. H.R. 1353, Transparency in Technological Acquisitions Act of 2017, introduced by Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY), amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require certain additional information to be submitted to Congress regarding the strategic 5-year technology investment plan of the Transportation Security Administration. H.R. 1238, Securing our Agriculture and Food Act, introduced by Rep. David Young (R-IA), amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to make the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security for Health Affairs responsible for coordinating the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security related to food, agriculture, and veterinary defense against terrorism. H.R. 1302, Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel Exercise Act of 2017, introduced by Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ), requires an exercise related to terrorist and foreign fighter travel, and for other purposes. H.R. 1365, Department of Homeland Security Acquisition Innovation Act, introduced by Rep. Lou Correa (D-CA), amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require certain acquisition innovation.
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Michael McCaul (R-Texas) and U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) and Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) today introduced legislation to support young people in agriculture by creating a tax exemption for the first $5,000 of income students 18 years of age or younger earn from projects completed through 4-H or FFA. Their bills, the Student Agriculture Protection Act (SAPA) (H.R. 1626) and the Agriculture Students Encourage, Acknowledge, Reward, Nurture (EARN) Act (S. 671), enable students to keep more of the modest income they earn, which can then be invested in education savings or future agricultural projects. “We must do more to encourage our future farmers to stay in the farming business so our country can maintain a secure and steady food supply,” said Rep. McCaul. “These students across the nation today represent the future of agriculture, and enabling them to succeed means we all succeed. That is why I am proud to reintroduce the Student Agriculture Protection Act. This bill would eliminate unnecessary barriers for our young farmers to ensure the U.S. remains outfitted with innovative minds that have allowed us to be the world leader in the agricultural industry.” “With the number of new farmers trending downward and more mouths to feed than ever across the globe, Congress must support young people who are interested in a career in agriculture,” Sen. Moran said. “This bill is one step we can take to encourage those involved in FFA and 4-H to turn their modest income from the agricultural projects into savings, money for education and training, or toward a future project. Farming kids across the country represent the future of a critical industry and way of life, and this legislation represents an important investment in the next generation.” “Ensuring members of student organizations like 4-H and FFA are afforded every opportunity to succeed is not only important for the student’s future, but the future of our nation’s agriculture,” said Sen. Ernst, a former member of the 4-H. “I’m proud to support the Agriculture Students EARN Act to allow our future farmers to gain valuable experience and skills through hands-on projects. By investing in our students’ futures, we are investing in the next generation of our nation’s leaders that will be on the forefront of agricultural innovation and production for years to come.” Typical 4-H and FFA projects include showing animals at local and state fairs, growing and harvesting crops, building agricultural mechanic projects and many others. Ag Students EARN and SAPA would lower the tax burden on the students and give them an opportunity to invest more of what they have earned in future projects, college funds, or savings accounts. Supporters of the legislation include National FFA Organization, National 4-H Council, American Farm Bureau Federation, National Farmers Union and National Young Farmers Coalition. Read the op-ed the members wrote here.
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), issued the following statement in regards to President Trump's budget proposal.Chairman McCaul: “It is important to keep in mind that the President’s budget proposals are just the beginning of the negotiation process with Congress. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, I will work with the Trump Administration and my colleagues to make sure our counterterrorism and cybersecurity programs, first responders, and those protecting our land, sea, and aviation sectors have the funds they need to defend our homeland and our citizens. Of note, the additional funds for border security and interior enforcement show this President truly understands these pressing challenges. The security of the American people is my top priority and I will make sure DHS is adequately funded to best protect America."
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) - senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee - and Eliott Engel (D-NY) – Ranking member of the Foreign Affairs Committee – introduced a resolution to expose the Iranian regime’s state-sponsored 1988 massacre of men, women, and children. Congressman Michael McCaul: “To this day, Iran has refused to acknowledge the massacre or provide information to the families of the victims regarding their loved ones. Even more disturbingly, some of those directly responsible for carrying out the massacre still hold senior positions within the current government of Iran. This resolution is an important step in providing justice to the families of those who fell victim to this atrocity in 1988, while highlighting the gross human rights abuses that still continue in Iran today.” Congressman Eliott Engel: “This bipartisan effort to shine a bright light on these atrocious killings sends a strong message to any human rights violator that the world is watching. In this resolution, we call for those responsible to be brought to justice and we show that world does not forget about such gross violations of human rights.” Background: In 1988, by order of a religious decree issued by then-Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Iran carried out a systematic effort to exterminate those it deemed political opponents of the regime. Amnesty International estimates that anywhere from 4,000 to 5000 individuals were executed during the summer of 1988, although some human rights organizations estimate the number could be higher. Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, questioned the former President of Estonia and other witnesses on the panel at the Foreign Affairs hearing on ways the U.S. can better counter Russia’s weaponization of information and other hostile acts. Watch the clip of Congressman McCaul here. Read the transcript below: Congressman McCaul: “Thank you Mr. Chairman. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, I have been dealing with the cyber threat for quite some time from many foreign adversary nations. The Chinese stole 20 million security clearances, including my own. Then North Korean’s very devastating attack on Sony Pictures. Iran- getting great capability now. Not as great as ours, but getting better. This latest cyberattack on the Central Intelligence Agency, Vault 7, stealing over 8000 pages of documents with some of the most highly sensitive cyber weapons. Cyber tools in the United States government now stolen, allegedly, by WikiLeaks as they dump it out to the public. This is going to have devastating consequences to all of us because it hands to our foreign adversaries the keys to the kingdom. And then we get to Russia. Sir, Estonia, we all know the story there…They shut down Estonia in one of the first acts of cyberwarfare. I was briefed on the Russian threat to our elections when it was classified, in a classified space, when the Obama administration was in power. My advice to them was we need to call them out for what they are doing and there must be consequences…. Their response was we do not want to acknowledge publically the threat. Then, under now-President Trump, the same briefing, with the same advice. I think the president finally understood when he had the classified briefing, that it was in fact a nation-state attack by Russia on the United States against our democracy. And I don’t care whether it’s Republican or Democrat. I care if it’s an American election being challenged, being influenced by a foreign adversary, particularly one like Russia. So my question very simply to the panel… You know, I’ve got five teenagers. If there are no consequences to bad behavior, guess what? Bad behavior continues. We have no international norms, no international standards when it comes to cyber, whether it be espionage or warfare. To the panel, and I’ll start with you Mr. President. What do we have to do, what should be the consequences when Russia threatens not only our European allies, but your country and NATO, and now the United States of America and our democracy?”
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement on the heels of President Trump signing a new executive order regarding immigration and travel to the United States. Chairman McCaul: “I have long supported taking bold steps to keep terrorists from entering America. I look forward to reading the details of the President’s new executive order and conducting oversight to ensure it is implemented smoothly. This month I am also launching a bipartisan Congressional task force focused on closing security gaps that might be exploited by jihadists to sneak into our country, and I hope the Administration will work closely with us to put in place new security checks to protect our people from the threat of terror.”
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Michael T. McCaul (R-TX-10), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC-01), Sean Duffy (R-WI-07), and Yvette Clarke (D-NY-09), along with U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Cory Gardner (R-CO) reintroduced the RACE for Children Act (Research to Accelerate Cures and Equity for Children Act), H.R. 231/S. 456, to support the development of innovative and promising cancer drugs for children. The bipartisan bill, first introduced in the 114th Congress, would update the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to reflect the latest advances in cancer drugs. PREA was enacted by Congress in 2003 to address the scarcity of information about how to treat children with drugs developed for adults, and therefore develop pediatric data during drug development. Although PREA has resulted in new information on how to treat children for a multitude of drugs over the years, there are still limited pediatric studies for cancer drugs. “Researchers have made tremendous strides in fighting cancer in adults, using ‘molecular targeting’ to precisely attack cancer cells,” McCaul said. “However, current law does not reflect such advances in cancer drug development because these therapies have been under-studied in pediatric cancer. As the founder of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I am pleased to re-introduce the RACE for Children Act because it will modernize current law to require pediatric studies for the most promising and innovative cancer treatments. I look forward to continuing the good fight with my colleagues and the advocacy community to give hope to the approximately 15,000 children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer each year.” “As co-chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing the RACE for Children Act,” Butterfield said. “Researchers in North Carolina and across the country are taking promising steps in diagnosing and treating children with cancer. Still, the law lags behind the current advances in treatment of childhood cancer. This bill will update the law to provide researchers with the tools they need to accelerate the search for innovative, life-saving treatments for childhood cancers." "We’ve come a long way in the battle against childhood cancer, but we need the RACE for Children Act to beat this disease,” Duffy said. “Our laws must be brought into the twenty-first century so that our nation’s children can benefit from cutting-edge research and development." “More children are lost to cancer in the U.S. than any other disease. In fact, before they turn 20, about 1 in 285 children in the U.S. will have cancer—a tragedy that touches too many American families,” Clarke said. “I'm proud to join with my colleagues in introducing The RACE for Children Act, which will help advance research into lifesaving cures. Together, we can promote the development of new treatments and combat this deadly disease.” “In Colorado and around the country, researchers are making dramatic advances to treat and cure cancer, but there is even more we can do for our kids,” Bennet said. “This legislation is a necessary update to our laws and has the potential to save thousands of children’s lives. I look forward to continue working with parents, researchers, and other advocates to advance this bill to expand treatment options for children.” "Pediatric cancer impacts too many families in Florida and across the nation, including my own,” Rubio said. “I am proud to reintroduce the RACE for Children Act, which would encourage more treatment options for children battling against cancer. This bill ‎takes a further step in extending medical advances in adult cancer treatment to children fighting this horrific disease. I am especially honored to reintroduce this bill on behalf ‎of the many advocates who have relentlessly fought to get more attention, funding and resources for childhood cancer. I look forward to continuing my work with them to make this crucial legislation a law." ‎ “No childhood should be interrupted by a struggle for survival, but cancer tragically puts far too many kids in Maryland and across the country in a battle for their lives,” Van Hollen said. “Researchers at institutions like the National Institutes of Health have made important progress on cancer research, and our laws need to reflect this. Our bill would update statutes around drug development to reflect recent advancements to research, which will help save children and their families from the misery of this horrific disease.” “The RACE for Children Act has the potential to increase access of life-saving cancer treatment and treatment for other serious illnesses for children by expanding pediatric studies,” Gardner said. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation paves the way for scientific breakthroughs and has the potential to not only mitigate suffering for pediatric cancer patients, but also save lives.” PREA does not apply to cancer because children's cancers arise in different organs than adult cancers, and as a result, most pharmaceutical companies receive waivers from PREA obligations. However, scientific advances have shown that some childhood and adult cancers may share the same molecular targets, and cancer drug development is now focused on advancements in molecular targets. The RACE for Children Act would update PREA by reflecting this new and promising approach to cancer drug development using molecular targets. Unlike the current structure of PREA, which applies to specific indications or specific types of cancer, this legislation would allow PREA to focus on a molecular target in a specific adult cancer when the same target presents in another childhood cancer. Currently, a PREA exemption may also be applied if the company studies the drug in an adult cancer that occurs in less than 200,000 patients. The bill would allow pediatric studies with a particular molecular target to still be considered for these cancers. “With rapid advances in personalized approaches to cancer care, the RACE for Children Act will ensure our children have a fighting chance to benefit from game changing precision cancer medicines, like immunotherapies, just like adults. We applaud this incredible effort to accelerate cancer care for our kids,” said Ronald A. DePinho, M.D., president, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. The bill is supported by the Children’s Hospital Colorado, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Children's Medical Center of Dallas, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Nemours Children’s Health System, NYU Langone Medical Center, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, Texas Children’s Hospital, and more than 100 pediatric cancer advocacy organizations. Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
02.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Expanding on the work the House Homeland Security Committee has done to shut down terrorist pathways into the United States, Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) announced the creation of the Task Force on Denying Terrorists Entry into the United States. The bipartisan panel, comprising five Republican and three Democratic Committee Members, is slated to commence work in March and will provide a final report with its findings later this year. The Task Force will examine all pathways by which extremists might infiltrate the homeland and will seek to identify gaps in U.S. government information sharing and vetting procedures. Fixing potential weaknesses in these systems will go a long way towards improving America’s defenses against terrorism. Chairman McCaul: “In the current threat environment, stopping terrorists will continue to be a top Committee priority. Closing gaps in our counterterrorism screening and vetting procedures is especially important in the face of continuing global instability and the desire of ISIS and other terrorist groups to strike the West. The Task Force Members have a difficult mission ahead of them, but the threat is real and we must act in close coordination with the Administration to best protect Americans from those who wish us harm.” The Republican Members of the Task Force are listed below; the Ranking Member will announce Democratic Members. Click on the names of the Members to learn more about them. Mike Gallagher (WI) – Task Force Chairman Clay Higgins (LA) John H. Rutherford (FL) Thomas A. Garrett, Jr. (VA) Brian K. Fitzpatrick (PA) John M. Katko (NY) – Ex Officio Advisor Read the Committee's full report on last Congress' Task Force on Combatting Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel, here. # # #
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Reps. Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and John R. Moolenaar (R-MI), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), and Albio Sires (D-NJ), introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives to reaffirm the United States Congress’s commitment to fighting corruption in Central America. The resolution states that efforts to fight corruption must remain at the center of U.S. policy in Central America, that the Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH) and the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) are important contributions to these efforts, and that the governments of Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador should cooperate with MACCIH and CICIG and the Attorneys General of the region. “A more stable and prosperous Central America means a more secure homeland,” said Rep. McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. As such, the importance of our continued focused on strong partnerships and enhanced governance in the Northern Triangle cannot be overstated. I am proud to stand with my colleagues in Congress on this united front and look forward building off the gains made over the years to root out corruption, crack down on illicit activities like narcotics and human trafficking, and bring increased opportunity and prosperity to the region.” “Combatting corruption is the key to progress on all fronts in Central America, from addressing drug and human trafficking to reducing sexual violence to creating greater economic opportunities,” said Rep. Torres, a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere. “In Guatemala, we have seen CICIG lead the way under the strong leadership of Ivan Velázquez and with the support of President Jimmy Morales. The progress they have achieved thus far underscores how important it is for governments throughout the region to cooperate with anti-corruption efforts. I am proud to introduce this resolution with Congressman John Moolenaar and with strong support from leaders on both sides of the aisle to reaffirm Congress’s commitment to being a productive partner in the fight against corruption.” “I join Congresswoman Torres in support of this resolution. It is a strong signal to our friends and allies in Central America that the United States is aware of the challenges they face and is ready to support them in creating a better future for their countries,” said Rep. Moolenaar. “With this resolution, our Congress is coming together in a bipartisan manner to say loud and clear that we strongly support the valiant efforts by the Guatemalan, Honduran, and Salvadoran people to put an end to corruption and impunity,” said Rep. Engel, Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. “As we continue to provide much-needed U.S. assistance to Central America, the fight against corruption must be front and center.” “The officials working to root out corruption in the Northern Triangle are putting their country first, often at great risk to their own lives,” said Rep. Sires, Ranking Member of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee. “I applaud their efforts to bring real and lasting change to the region that will help give every child in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador a chance at a safe and happy future. I thank my colleague Congresswoman Torres for introducing this important and timely resolution.” In recent years, the people of Central America have grown increasingly frustrated with government corruption, a scourge throughout the region and one of the top obstacles to development. As a result of popular discontent, initiatives to combat corruption have advanced in Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. The United States has supported these initiatives, and this resolution underscores the United States’ continued support for anti-corruption efforts in Central America. The resolution has also been cosponsored by Reps. Ted Poe (R-TX), David Valadao (R-CA), and Don Young (R-AK). A link to the resolution can be found HERE.
02.15.2017	AUSTIN, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, provided local libraries throughout Texas’ 10th Congressional District with a copy of the IRS’s Tax Guide for 2016 (IRS Publication 17). This 293-page document can be printed at one’s own expense, purchased for $23.00, or viewed digitally. However, McCaul wants to ensure these resources are easily accessible for Texans ahead of the upcoming tax season. Congressman McCaul: “Tax season can be a stressful time for many Americans and it is important everyone has access to the necessary resources. By providing copies of the IRS Publication 17 to libraries from Austin to Houston, I hope to help Texans who may not be able to obtain a copy on their own. Filing taxes should not be overwhelming due to the lack of information.” Listed below - by county - is where you can find copies of IRS Publication 17, provided by Congressman McCaul: Austin County Knox Memorial County Library - Wallis, TX Bellville Public Library - Bellville, TX Virgil & Josephine Gordon Memorial Library - Sealy, TX Bastrop County Bastrop Public Library - Bastrop, TX Elgin Public Library -Elgin, TX Smithville Public Library - Smithville, TX Colorado County Eula & David Wintermann Library - Eagle Lake, TX Garwood Veterans Memorial Library - Garwood, TX Nesbitt Memorial Library - Columbus, TX Sheridan Memorial Library - Sheridan, TX Weimar Public Library - Weimar, TX Fayette County Fayette Public Library - La Grange, TX Round Top Family Library - Round Top, TX Schulenburg Public Library - Schulenburg, TX Harris County Katy Branch Library - Katy, TX Northwest Branch Library - Cypress, TX Lone Star College - Tomball Community Library - Tomball, TX Lee County Black Bridge Library - Dime Box, TX Giddings Public Library - Giddings, TX Travis County Austin Public Library - Little Walnut Creek Branch - Austin, TX Austin Public Library - North Village Branch - Austin, TX Austin Public Library - St. John Branch - Austin, TX Austin Public Library - Yarborough Branch - Austin, TX Pflugerville Community Library - Pflugerville, TX Manor Library Community Center - Manor, TX Recycled Reads Bookstore - Austin, TX Waller County Waller County Library Brookshire-Pattison - Brookshire, TX Melanee Smith Memorial Library - Waller, TX Waller County Library – Hempstead, TX Washington County Blinn College Library - Brenham, TX Nancy Carol Roberts Memorial Library – Brenham, TX Please feel free to visit www.mccaul.house.gov or call Congressman McCaul’s Austin office at (512) 473-2357 for more information on constituent services should you need assistance with IRS-related problems. ###
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Transportation and Protective Services Subcommittee Chairman John Katko (R-NY) issued the following statement in the wake of 12 current and former Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and airport employees being indicted for smuggling approximately 20 tons of cocaine through TSA security systems at Puerto Rico’s Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport between 1998 and 2016. Chairman McCaul & Subcommittee Chairman Katko: “Our aviation sector is a pivotal piece of America’s homeland security. This week’s indictment of 12 current and former TSA and airport employees accused of smuggling drugs through security screening is a stark reminder that our airport access controls and employee vetting processes need constant oversight and improvement. This Committee has made it a priority to investigate potential security challenges and insider threats within TSA. Now more than ever, we must work to secure our nation’s airports and close vulnerabilities that may put our homeland or citizens at risk.” Just last week, Rep. Katko’s Transportation and Protective Security Subcommittee released a report entitled “America’s Airports: The Threat From Within,” identifying and highlighting the dangers posed by insider threats at airports. If security breaches in airports provide an opportunity for the transportation of illicit drugs, these same gaps could be ripe for terrorists to exploit and smuggle weapons or carry out plots internally. McCaul and Katko have been leaders in improving aviation security and TSA. Just last week, they introduced H.R. 876, which would reform key TSA programs. Additionally, the two introduced a bill that passed the House last Congress, H.R. 3102, the Airport Access Control Security Improvement Act of 2015, to reform TSA programs and streamline transportation security regulations. Some of these provisions became law as part of the FAA Extension Agreement in July. See the whole report with recommendations to better eliminate insider threats here.
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), co-founder of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, Senator Jack Reed (D-RI), Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA), Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Congressman G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Congressman Mike Kelly (R-PA), and Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA) re-introduce the Childhood Cancer STAR (Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research) Act, HR 820, in the 115th Congress. The STAR Act would improve efforts to identify and track childhood cancer incidences, improve the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors, and identify opportunities to expand the research of therapeutics necessary to treat the approx. 15,700 children diagnosed with cancer in the U.S. every year. Chairman McCaul: “I co-founded the Childhood Cancer Caucus because we need to do more in the fight against the number one killer of our children. When I was in elementary school, my friend lost his battle to this illness, and this tragedy continues to be a far too frequent occurrence for children across the nation. That is why we need to move legislation like the STAR Act through Congress this year, and prevent the worst outcomes from becoming a reality.” Senator Reed: “With far too many children’s lives tragically cut short by cancer, it’s critical that we do all we can to help the brave young people who are fighting these battles. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act will bring needed assistance to children with cancer and their families by expanding opportunities for research on childhood cancer and providing new strategies to help survivors overcome late health effects, such as secondary cancers. It is my hope that these efforts will lead to life-saving treatments for children and bring us closer to our ultimate goal of ending pediatric cancer once and for all.” Congresswoman Speier: “Childhood cancer is a nightmare for children and their families. And for many of these children, the fight does not end with remission,” Rep. Speier said. “That is why I’m proud to reintroduce the STAR Act and fight for its immediate passage in order to address the care and quality of life of the population of childhood cancer survivors, which is expected to reach 500,000 by the year 2020. The joyful news of remission should never be ruined by the serious threat of financial and emotional turmoil due to the on-going medical needs of these incredibly brave survivors.” Senator Capito: “We must continue making advancements that can help save the lives of those battling childhood cancers. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act will contribute to new developments in research and treatment, and has the potential to positively impact tens of thousands of lives. I’m proud to reintroduce this very important legislation for patients and families in West Virginia and across the country.” Congressman Butterfield: “Childhood cancer remains the leading cause of death in American children and we need to take action. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act aims to give young cancer patients and their families better access to life-saving treatments and the support they need even after beating cancer. I thank my colleagues for their continued partnership on this measure. No parent should have to lose a child to cancer. This Act moves us one step closer to seeing that it does not happen.” Senator Van Hollen: “There are unique barriers to studying childhood cancer that are slowing and preventing the next big breakthrough in treatment. We need a strategy to give every child with cancer the hope of a long and healthy life, and the STAR Act is a bipartisan approach to delivering that hope. By taking action to better study this disease and improve the quality of life for survivors, this bill will ultimately save lives and get us closer to the day that no child has to face the diagnosis of cancer.” Congressman Kelly: “No parent should ever have to hear the words, ‘Your child has cancer.’ I am so grateful to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to introduce this crucial legislation to help make that dream a reality. The STAR Act will be a powerful tool in the fight to eradicate childhood cancer forever, and an ally to the survivors who have bravely fought and beat this horrible disease.” Senator Isakson: "It is extremely important that we increase research and treatment of the devastating effects of childhood cancer. This critical legislation is a positive step forward to help find the right cures for our youngest patients.” Background: The STAR Act passed the U.S. House in the 114th Congress. Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security, released the below statement following the administration’s imposition of sanctions on the Islamic republic of Iran in response to its ballistic missile test on Monday, January 30th. Chairman McCaul: “After being put on notice, the Ayatollahs should realize that under this new administration the days of turning a blind eye to blatant acts of aggression are over. I am pleased to see President Trump respond to the Iranian threat with the imposition of these sanctions and I look forward to working alongside his administration to ensure there remains to be real consequences for the regime’s overtly destabilizing activities. We must continue to apply pressure when needed and where needed until Iran changes its behavior and falls in line with international law.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) issued the following statement about President Trump’s executive order on regulations. President Trump signed an executive order requiring that for every new federal regulation implemented, two must be rescinded. This came after the re-introduction of McCaul’s One In, One Out Act, which would require at least one deregulatory measure be found with greater or equal cost before a federal agency can impose a new costly regulation on small businesses. Chairman McCaul: “This executive order is a great step in the right direction for small businesses across this nation. Cutting the red tape will finally allow small business owners the ability to do what they do best – hire, compete, innovate, and flourish. Now that we have positive momentum from the administration in this effort, Congress can provide additional assurances to business owners by enacting the One In, One Out Act into law. However, we can’t stop here. More must be done to rein in the excessive regulatory onslaught plaguing the business community and I look forward to continuing to work with my fellow colleagues in this regard.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
01.31.2017	HOUSTON, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, along with Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee (TX-18) and Congressman Al Green (TX-9) met with members of the FBI, S.A.F.E Management, and the Houston Police Department (HPD) at NRG Stadium in Houston, Texas. The Houston congressional members received a briefing hosted by HPD and the FBI then were taken on a walkthrough of the stadium for a security check of the operations in preparation of Super Bowl LI. Chairman McCaul: “Houston is thrilled to host Super Bowl LI and the safety of the players, attendees, volunteers, and staff is our top concern. The Super Bowl has been a staple of American culture for over half a century and that is something we plan to protect. Thank you to our law enforcement officers for working hard to ensure this Sunday is a great game and a safe day for America. I look forward to welcoming those near and far to our city this weekend.” Congressman Al Green: “I would like to thank Congressman Michael McCaul and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee for organizing this important security briefing. I applaud the National Football League, the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Harris County, and the Houston Police Department for their comprehensive approach to ensuring a safe event. Their thoughtful approach, especially in terms of anti-human trafficking efforts, not only addresses the need for vigilant awareness from the public but also provides a long-term approach to keeping our city and its people safe.” Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee: “Yesterday, I joined with House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul and other members of the Texas delegation for a security briefing regarding Super Bowl 51. To ensure that it will be the best one yet we must vigilantly make the safety of our visitors, participants, residents, and all those involved our first priority. Therefore, I encourage you #IfYouSeeSomethingSaySomething. I look forward to welcoming you all to Houston, and I hope you’ll take in as much of the city as your time here allows.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
01.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul today released the following statement on President Trump's Executive Order on refugees. Chairman Michael McCaul: “In light of the confusion and uncertainty created in the wake of the President’s Executive Order, it is clear adjustments are needed. We should not simply turn away individuals who already have lawful U.S. visas or green cards—like those who have risked their lives serving alongside our forces overseas or who call America their home. We must be focused instead on putting in place tougher screening measures to weed out terror suspects while facilitating the entry of peaceful, freedom-loving people of all religions who see the United States as a beacon of hope. In the future, such policy changes should be better coordinated with the agencies implementing them and with Congress to ensure we get it right—and don’t undermine our nation’s credibility while trying to restore it.” “At the same time, it is deeply irresponsible to characterize this Executive Order as a ‘Muslim ban.’ It is not. The order puts a pause on refugee admissions and temporarily halts immigration from seven countries, each of which was already designated by the Obama Administration as an area of terror concern. The U.S. government has paused immigration from specific countries in the past in order to implement additional measures to prevent terrorist infiltration of our homeland. I have offered advice to President Trump on how to develop better, common-sense security checks for immigrants and refugees, and as the Administration weighs next steps, I will press for responsible screening policies that keep Americans safe while upholding our values.” # # #
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement on President Trump signing an executive order regarding immigration and border security. Chairman McCaul: “For years, Americans have demanded that Washington do its job and secure our borders. Today, President Trump took bold action to finally make it happen. I applaud the President for moving swiftly to put in place the multi-layered barrier defenses we need to keep criminals, drugs, and potential terrorists out of our country. But the President didn’t stop there. He is putting an end to the last Administration’s reckless immigration policies by ensuring we don’t just ‘catch and release’ illegal aliens, but that we catch and deport them—especially those who have committed crimes. Finally, President Trump is sending a clear message to cities: if you harbor illegal aliens and refuse to comply with federal law, you will be stripped of federal grant dollars. I will work closely with the White House to ensure the Administration has all necessary resources and authorities to secure our border, enforce our laws, and protect the United States.” ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10), Phil Roe MD (TN-1), Rick Allen (GA-12), Dave Brat (VA-07), and Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduce the One In, One Out Act to cut the red tape in order to get government out of the way where it is most harmful and let business owners do what they do best – hire, compete, innovate, and flourish. Specifically, this bill would require at least one deregulatory measure be found with greater or equal cost before a federal agency can impose a new costly regulation on small businesses. Originally introduced in Britain in January 2011 as the One in, One-out rule, and increased to One-in, Two-out in January 2013, this policy reduced annual regulatory costs by almost $2.7 billion. It wasn’t only successful at lowering costs, but also at making the UK a more desirable place to start a business. Chairman McCaul: “We must put our money where our mouth is and finally recreate an environment where our small business owners are not simply keeping their head above water, but thriving. The One In, One Out Act is the starting point to establish a system of regulating that prioritizes individuals and small businesses, and places innovation and competitiveness at the forefront of the decision making process. Cutting this red tape is essential to making America great again.” Congressman Roe: “If the United States’ regulatory system were a country, it would have the world’s 9th largest economy. Out-of-control regulating has undoubtedly slowed economic recovery, which is why I am proud to support the One In, One Out Act, commonsense legislation to begin the process of regulating smarter by capping the number of federal regulations. I thank Congressman McCaul for his leadership on this important issue, and I look forward to working alongside him and with President Trump to cut red tape and foster private-sector job growth.” Congressman Allen: “Rules and regulations have overburdened Americans for the last eight years. Now is the time to scale them back. The One In, One Out Act is good government and common sense at its core. Not only does this legislation require federal agencies to repeal or revise rules before they can issue a new one, it goes one step further by requiring that any new rules be of equal or lesser cost to Americans. To begin growing our economy and creating jobs, we must reduce the size and scope of the federal government and tackle the mountain of red tape surrounding our nation’s job creators. For too long, Americans have had to comply with time-consuming rules and regulations. They are ready for growth and innovation – this legislation is the first step.” Congressman Gohmert: “Government regulations can be a burdensome hindrance to America’s economic growth. The One In, One Out Act is a necessary and common-sense piece of legislation that I am proud to co-sponsor. This bill will not only cut down on the red tape regulations issued by bloated government agencies – it will limit them as well. Businesses can truly thrive when the amount of unnecessary and burdensome regulations are kept at bay.” Congressman Brat: “The One In, One Out Act is a vital piece of legislation in our burdensome regulatory environment because it puts a cap on the total number of federal regulations. I hear every day from constituents who are drowning in red tape and unable to operate their businesses or provide for their families due to the actions of unaccountable government bureaucrats in DC. For too long, government agencies have issued new regulations without cutting old ones, resulting in a maze of regulations that strangles businesses and economic growth.”
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement on the Senate confirmation of retired Marine General John Kelly as Secretary of Homeland Security. Chairman McCaul: "I am pleased that the Senate voted today to confirm retired Marine General John Kelly as the next Secretary of Homeland Security. As President Trump begins his time in office, it is imperative he has his national security team in place on day one to ensure our homeland is protected. Secretary Kelly is a battle-tested general with experience combating the most critical homeland security challenges facing America, and I am confident he will be a great leader of the Department of Homeland Security. I look forward to working with Secretary Kelly to reform the Department while securing our borders, combating radical Islamist terror, bolstering our cybersecurity networks and defenses, and supporting our first responders to better carry out the paramount task of protecting our homeland and citizens." ###
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) congratulated Donald J. Trump on assuming the role of the 45th President of the United States of America. Chairman McCaul: “It is my great honor to congratulate Donald J. Trump on his historic ascension to our nation’s highest office: the presidency of the United States. I am confident President Trump will reform our government and once again restore American leadership. As Commander-in-Chief, he is now responsible for protecting our people from those who wish to do us harm -- and defending our democracy against those who seek to undermine it. As Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, I will work closely with the President and his Administration to ensure the U.S. government lives up to that solemn responsibility. Together, we will make America safe again.” ###
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement after Mexico’s extradition of Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, the head of the Sinaloa drug cartel, to the United States. Chairman McCaul: "The extradition of Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman is much-welcomed news and I applaud the Mexican government for their assistance throughout this process. While Mr. Guzman will finally answer for his heinous crimes committed here in the U.S., we must remain vigilant in cracking down on the multibillion dollar drug trafficking industry that continues to poison communities all across this nation. I look forward to working with President Trump in putting additional pressure on the illicit drug trade and hope that the bilateral relationship between the U.S and Mexico can enjoy such cooperation in the future." ###
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s decision to commute the almost 30 years of Chelsea Manning’s remaining sentence days before he leaves office. Chairman McCaul: “I am appalled at President Obama’s decision to free someone who betrayed our country so egregiously. Manning is a criminal who stole our national security secrets, damaged our alliances, and put innocent lives in danger around the world. Manning deserves universal condemnation, not clemency, and it is disgraceful for a Commander in Chief to set this kind of precedent. Despite all the damage that has been done in recent years from unauthorized intelligence disclosures, Obama is now sending a message to future leakers of classified information that they might be forgiven. Time and again he has put politics before our national security, and his decision to let a traitor off the hook on his way out the door is unforgivable.” ###
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), alongside Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS), met with the Secret Service, FBI, and other law enforcement officials to oversee and inspect security in place for the inauguration of President-Elect Donald J. Trump. A peaceful transition of power is a pillar of American democracy owed to the dedicated men and women working tirelessly to ensure the safety and security of all. Chairman McCaul: “I commend the efforts of the United States Secret Service, Department of Homeland Security, Capitol Hill Police, and local law enforcement who are working tirelessly to ensure a safe and successful Inauguration. My Committee and I are paying detailed attention to all of the necessary preparations for this historic event. Despite the intense terror threat our nation faces, I am confident that we will be able to conduct a seamless and peaceful transition of power in large part because of the hard work of the Department’s employees, and the Secret Service, and those on the front lines keeping our nation safe.” Watch the walk-though here. Total Runtime: 40 Seconds
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Key committee chairmen in the U.S. House of Representatives announced today a plan to regularly reauthorize, reform, and improve the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in the 115th Congress and beyond. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed by all chairmen of committees with jurisdiction over DHS, and details can be found here. The Department—established to protect the United States from homegrown and foreign enemies—has not been reauthorized since its creation in 2002. Since that time, the threat environment has evolved, but DHS has not kept pace. Further, the sprawling nature of DHS jurisdiction in the House has meant that opportunities to fix it have not been fully realized. This landmark agreement allows the Homeland Security Committee to coordinate the reauthorization, reform, and improvement effort, and it demonstrates the firm commitment of House Committees and House Leadership to better secure America. Chairman McCaul: “We are finally on a solid path to overhaul the Department of Homeland Security and make sure it stays ahead of threats to our country. I am pleased that the committee chairmen with jurisdiction over DHS have come together—for the first time—and formally agreed on a path forward to comprehensively reauthorize the Department in the 115th Congress and beyond. This agreement is just what Americans need to see happening in Washington to have more confidence in our nation’s security. I look forward to working hand-in-hand with my colleagues in the House, the Senate, and the new Administration to reauthorize DHS and ensure it is equipped to protect the United States and our people more effectively, efficiently, and decisively.” ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), along with U.S. Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas), introduced The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Terrorist Designation Act to protect America and her allies from the threat of Iranian terror. Specifically, this legislation directs the U.S. State Department to determine whether the IRGC should be designated as a foreign terrorist organization. The IRGC serves as both a major military and economic entity for the Iranian regime. Through the deployment of the IRGC - Quds Force (IRGC-QF), Iran’s paramilitary wing tasked with external operations, the IRGC has been responsible for some of the deadliest terrorist attacks of the past three decades. According to the State Department, the IRGC and its Quds Force “is the regime’s primary mechanism for cultivating and supporting terrorists abroad.” Congressman McCaul: “If a foreign organization looks like a terror group, operates like a terror group, and supports terrorism, then it should be called for what it is – a foreign terrorist organization. As obvious as that seems, for years the IRGC has been allowed to operate clandestinely using front companies and illicit networks to evade formal designation. The Obama Administration has chosen to turn a blind eye to these activities for the sake of a flawed nuclear agreement which Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei stated publicly would not alter Iran’s behavior. As a result, the Iranian-Quds Force continues to fund and train terrorist proxies abroad, such as Hezbollah and Hamas, putting our allies in the region at risk and betraying U.S. national security interests. The time to hold the Ayatollahs accountable is long overdue and this legislation is a step in the right direction.” Senator Cruz: “As a result of the recent, terrible deal the United States negotiated with Iran, IRGC-owned and affiliated companies have greater access to the global financial system, which will in turn lend increased economic support to the IRGC’s terrorist activities. We must mitigate this damage by designating IGRC as a foreign terror organization, signaling to financial institutions and companies who facilitate or conduct business with the IRGC that they may be held liable. Turning a blind eye to the IRGC is no pathway to peace in our struggle against radical Islamic terror; it only guarantees the ultimate success of our enemy. We must call this enemy by its name and speak with clarity and moral authority.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement in response to the Intelligence Community’s assessment on Russian activities related to the recent U.S. elections. Chairman McCaul: “The Intelligence Community’s assessment affirms what I have been saying for months: the Russians meddled in our democratic process, Vladimir Putin is not our friend, and we must be realistic about the threat we face. America’s democratic system is an example to all the world, and we should do everything we can to defend it. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration’s reluctance to push back against cyber intrusions has damaged our national security and emboldened our adversaries. I believe the next Administration will respond decisively to the war in cyberspace by leaning into the fight—and deterring outsiders from breaching our networks and interfering in our democratic process. Finally, I commend our intelligence professionals for their continued efforts to identify foreign aggression and protect the American people.”
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) introduced the No Raise for Congress Act today to end automatic pay increases for members of Congress. Congressman McCaul: “Our national debt ridiculously exceeds $19 trillion and yet families are still struggling to make ends meet. Hardworking Texans don’t receive automatic pay raises and Congress certainly shouldn’t either. Congress needs to take their responsibility as lawmakers seriously, and this bill is a commonsense step in that direction to restore smart government. We must stop running up the credit cards and do the people’s work.” Congresswoman Sinema: “Congress doesn’t deserve a raise, especially when so many Arizona families struggle to make ends meet. Ending automatic pay raises for members of Congress is a commonsense solution that cuts wasteful spending and puts hard-working Arizona families first.” The No Raise for Congress Act amends current law to permanently eliminate automatic pay adjustments for Members of Congress. The current prohibition on member pay adjustments expires in April, unless Congress takes further action. ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Res. 11 to reject the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334. Congressman McCaul: “Today the House sent a clear message to not only the Obama Administration, but the world, that this body will not stand for any efforts aimed at weakening the U.S.–Israel relationship. The important role Israel plays in security and peace in the region cannot be overstated, and the strong bilateral relations between our two countries is more important now than ever. As such, the passage of this resolution objecting to efforts at the U.N. aimed at undermining negotiations between Israel and Palestine is a sign of our unshakable resolve.” Background The United Nations Security Council Resolution was passed on December 23, 2016, which effectively states that the Jewish Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem and the Western Wall, Judaism’s holiest site, are “occupied territory.” It also lends legitimacy to efforts by the Palestinian Authority to impose a solution through international organizations like the UN, as well as to unjustified and harmful boycotts and divestment campaigns against Israel. Click here to read McCaul’s statement after its passage.
12.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration’s response to Russia’s cyber interference and harassment: Chairman McCaul: “I am pleased to see the Obama Administration is finally responding to Russian meddling, including by sanctioning key operatives and expelling Russian spies from the United States. But these actions are long overdue. For many months I have urged the Administration to respond to the election-related hacks, and for years I have pressed them to stand up to Russia and other cyber intruders. Instead, President Obama’s ‘look-the-other-way’ foreign policy has emboldened Moscow time and again and opened us up to attack. I look forward to working with the incoming Trump Administration to make sure that—in the future—our response to such aggression is timely, decisive, and forceful enough to convince our adversaries not to do it again.” See Chairman McCaul’s recent op-ed on the issue, here. ###
12.23.2016	AUSTIN, TX — Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) announced today that he has nominated 25 Texas students for acceptance to the esteemed United States service academies. The students are recommended based on their academic performance, leadership skills, extracurricular involvement, and character. “One of the most rewarding parts of my job is to nominate such outstanding young Texans to our nation’s service academies,” McCaul said. “Competing with the best and brightest of America’s youth, this nomination signifies years of hard work and dedication. Their decision to serve our country in uniform is admirable, and I am confident the future of our nation is in good hands.” The service academies include the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO.; the Military Academy at West Point, NY; the Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD.; and the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, NY. Final selection for admission to the service academies will be selected by the officials at each respective academy this spring. Students who are interested in learning more about service academy nominations can visit McCaul’s website: https://mccaul.house.gov/services/military-academy-nominations. Nomination to a service academy by Congressman McCaul does not ensure a student will be accepted. Students who were nominated to multiple academies will choose which to attend should they be admitted to more than one institution. The nominees are as follows: Harris County Tyler Fausset 2017 graduate of Waller High School U.S. Air Force Academy Cameron Goulden 2017 graduate of Klein Oak High School U.S. Military Academy Montana Grosch 2017 graduate of Cy-Fair High School U.S. Naval Academy Jonathan Hardegree 2016 graduate of Cinco Ranch High School U.S. Military Academy Hannah Hirst 2017 graduate of Faith West Academy U.S. Naval Academy Brynna Johnson 2017 graduate of Cypress Ranch High School U.S. Military Academy Katy Klare 2017 graduate of Waller High School U.S. Air Force Academy Halee Lewis 2017 graduate of Cypress Ranch High School U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Nicola Longo 2017 graduate of Cypress Woods High School U.S. Military Academy Angelo Luna 2017 graduate of Tomball Memorial High School U.S. Naval Academy Robert Martinolli 2017 graduate of Cypress Ranch High School U.S. Military Academy Braden Page 2017 graduate of Cypress Creek High School U.S. Naval Academy Andrew Pool 2017 graduate of Tomball Memorial High School U.S. Naval Academy Jack Ray 2017 graduate of Cypress Ranch High School U.S. Naval Academy Dustin Read 2017 graduate of Klein Oak High School U.S. Air Force Academy Matthew Semrick 2017 graduate of Cypress Ranch High School U.S. Air Force Academy Lee County Reed Marshall 2017 graduate of Ramstein High School U.S. Air Force Academy Travis County Anthony Atwell 2017 graduate of St. Stephen’s Episcopal School U.S. Naval Academy Joseph Canterbury 2017 graduate of St. Michael’s Catholic Academy U.S. Military Academy Jordan Felan 2017 graduate of Hendrickson High School U.S. Naval Academy Nishanth Kalavakolanu 2017 graduate of Liberal Arts and Science Academy U.S. Air Force Academy Hyunki Lee 2017 graduate of Westwood High School U.S. Air Force Academy Mitchell McDonald 2017 graduate of Pflugerville High School U.S. Naval Academy Grace McElroy 2017 graduate of Anderson High School U.S. Military Academy Waller County Joseph Woodring 2016 graduate of Katy High School U.S. Air Force Academy Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2005. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
12.23.2016	AUSTIN, TX – Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) issued the following statement regarding the Administration's refusal to veto the anti-Israel UN resolution. Chairman McCaul: "Today's vote at the UN is deplorable and undermines efforts at lasting peace. President Obama's refusal to stand firm with our great ally Israel doesn't respect the strong, deep relationship our two countries have shared for decades. I look forward to working with President-elect Trump next year to let Israel know that we have their back and we will not waver in our support." ###
12.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – After nearly a year of intense work, House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today released a comprehensive review of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) use of intelligence to counter terrorist threats. The report, entitled “Reviewing the Department of Homeland Security’s Intelligence Enterprise: Fighting Terrorism by Addressing Key Gaps,” is an in-depth analysis of the Department’s intelligence structure and functions, and provides over 30 recommendations with regard to streamlining and enhancing DHS intelligence efforts. Chairman McCaul: “Although DHS has improved its ability to protect the homeland against terrorist threats over time, major gaps still remain. As the next Administration’s transition efforts begin, I urge the Department to redouble its efforts to further integrate its intelligence organizations and systems. Best supporting state and local law enforcement efforts must also continue to be a top Departmental priority. Fifteen years after the attacks of 9/11, DHS has made significant strides in sharing terrorism-related intelligence, but more needs to be done. With the dangerous terror threat environment we face today, the acceptable margin of error is zero.” Key Findings: DHS has made significant strides in improving the flow of terrorism information to all stakeholders since its creation. The DHS Intelligence Enterprise (IE) is an evolving structure, and the authority of the Chief Intelligence Officer (CINT) is not completely accepted throughout the IE. Some DHS IE members do not have clear, or even explicitly identified, missions. This vagueness causes overlapping efforts and inhibits the effective sharing of terrorism-related intelligence due to the fact that information flows are sometimes unclear. The DHS IE does not have a consolidated intelligence doctrine and the CINT does not have full awareness of all terrorism-related intelligence sharing agreements into which the various DHS Components have entered. The DHS IE employs a vast array of Information Technology systems that require standardization and modernization. Implementing the DHS Data Framework initiative is a critical project which will help ameliorate this issue, while also allowing for more effective intelligence analysis of Departmental data. Members of the DHS IE generate a vast array of finished intelligence products. These are often nothing more than a repackaging of products from statutory Intelligence Community members, rather than analyses of DHS-derived information. Summary of Recommendations: The Secretary of Homeland Security should more clearly define the DHS IE, as well as its roles and responsibilities. DHS Components should examine the missions and structures of their Component Intelligence Programs, focusing and consolidating them as appropriate. The CINT should work closely with the various DHS Components to share terrorism-related intelligence effectively within the Department as well as with other federal agencies. The CINT should ensure that the IE serves State, local, tribal, and territorial (SLTT) law enforcement authorities effectively, while at the same time benefiting from the unique information they can provide to the Department. ###
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement regarding Russia’s attempts to interfere in the U.S. presidential election. Chairman McCaul: “Russia’s recent hacks should be taken very seriously, and the United States must make it a top priority to investigate any outside interference aimed at undermining our democratic process. These types of intrusions, whether from a nation-state or cyber criminals, must be met with a response that is forceful, public, and decisive. I will work hand-in-hand with the incoming Administration and Congressional Leaders to enhance our nation’s cyber defenses and continue to assist state and local officials in doing the same, while ensuring there is timely sharing of cyber-threat information to stop intrusions before they happen.” ###
12.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – President-elect Donald Trump today announced his intent to nominate General John Kelly as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement on the heels of the announcement: Chairman McCaul: “General John Kelly is a strong leader with in-depth knowledge about the most crucial homeland security issues facing the United States. I am confident he will serve our country well as the next Secretary of Homeland Security. At a time when we face grave danger from terrorists to cyber criminals, it is imperative we have a steady, decisive Secretary at the helm. I look forward to working hand-in hand with General Kelly as we implement President-Elect Trump’s robust agenda to defend against jihadist threats, secure our borders, enforce our immigration laws, and protect the American homeland.” ###
12.07.2016	Secure the Border Once and for All “We are going to build the wall. Period. In the process, I will stand side-by-side with the Trump Administration to throw out President Obama’s reckless immigration policies and start enforcing our nation’s laws.” “We will put in place a historic, multi-layered defense system so that drug cartels and terrorists don’t slip through the cracks. That means more Border Patrol agents, new authorities, aerial surveillance, sensors, and other technology to protect our territory. We will take a military-style approach to the problem by giving agencies the real command-and-control they need to get a handle on the situation.” Aggressively Enforce Our Immigration Laws “…We are a nation of laws, and we cannot enforce them selectively. Doing so harms our democracy, and it undermines our way of life.” Shut Down All Terrorist Pathways into the United States “…We must begin ‘extreme vetting’ of foreign travelers. There are many ways to reach our shores, including as a tourist, student, immigrant, or refugee. Terrorists have exploited every single one of these routes, so we need to ramp up security for all of them.” “Our goal should be to identify and exclude individuals who have ties to terror, who advocate Islamist extremism, or who support the overthrow of our government and Constitution.” “We should immediately suspend immigration from high-risk countries where we cannot confidently weed out terror suspects. This includes Syria.” Keep Islamist Terrorists From Recruiting and Radicalizing in Our Communities “We need to repeal and replace President Obama’s failed, politically correct ‘Countering Violent Extremism’ policies. Our programs should focus on more than generic violence prevention. They should target the specific threat we face from radical Islamist terror.” “We must also aggressively counter-message jihadist propaganda. The government has failed to empower local, credible voices to push back against the narrative of our enemies. Now is the time to get off the bench. We should be helping NGOs fight back and keep more people from going down the path to terror.” Defend Our Networks and Bring Cyber Attackers to Justice “We cannot allow foreign governments to interfere in our democracy. When they do, we must respond forcefully, publicly, and decisively. … The United States should respond to cyberattacks in a way that will make our adversaries think twice about doing it again.” Fix the Broken Bureaucracy at DHS “It’s time to undertake wholesale reform at DHS, including eliminating bureaucratic bloat, scrapping failing offices, and cutting through the red tape. … We must make sure DHS stays ahead of our enemies and that it leverages private sector innovation to deal with emerging threats from drones, IEDs, and beyond.” Read Chairman McCaul’s full remarks as prepared, here.
12.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, co-chairs of the Childhood Cancer Caucus, Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Chris Van Hollen (MD-08), and incoming co-chair Congresswoman Jackie Speier (CA-14), applaud the U.S. House passage of H.R. 3381, Childhood Cancer STAR Act. The STAR Act addresses the four major concerns facing the pediatric cancer community today: Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research. “The passage of the STAR Act is a critical step in the right direction in the fight against childhood cancer,” McCaul said. “It is the most comprehensive childhood cancer bill ever considered before this Congress. It would allow us to better understand the causes of pediatric cancer and the effects of treatment, provide doctors with resources necessary to help identify children who may be at risk, and improve collaboration among providers so doctors are better able to care for survivors. I am proud of our efforts to pass this bill on behalf of the children and families in Texas and across the country.” “With Washington divided on many issues, we must find common ground whenever possible ‎-- especially when it comes to taking care of the most vulnerable in our society. Passage of the Childhood Cancer STAR Act should serve as an example of how we can come together to make progress for the thousands of children in Maryland and across our country who are afflicted with cancer. I want to thank childhood cancer patients, survivors, and advocates for working with us to give hope to children battling this disease,” said Van Hollen. "Battling cancer is one of the worst ordeals that any child and their parents can face,” said Speier. “And for many children and their families, that fight does not end with remission. With as many as two-thirds of childhood cancer survivors experiencing secondary cancers or follow-up complications to their treatment, it is imperative that we have a strategy to improve their care. The House passage of the Childhood Cancer STAR Act is an important step forward in addressing this terrible disease and improving the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors and their families.” Background: Congressmen Michael McCaul and Chris Van Hollen co-founded the Childhood Cancer Caucus seven years ago as a platform to advocate for children and families across the country who have been impacted by this life-altering diagnosis. The co-chairs for next Congress will be Representatives McCaul (R-TX), Speier (D-CA), Butterfield (D-NC), and Kelly (R-PA). ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republicans have selected Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) to continue to serve as Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee in the 115th Congress. Chairman McCaul, in his third term as Chairman, will continue working to secure our borders, block terrorist pathways into the United States, protect against cyber attacks, and prevent terror attacks on the homeland. Today, the House Republican Conference voted to confirm the GOP Steering Committee’s recommendation that McCaul continue to serve in this critical national security position. Chairman McCaul: “I am honored to continue my service as Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and want to thank the entire Republican Conference for supporting our efforts of shielding the homeland from international and domestic threats. The Committee intends to build on our successes from the 114th Congress and looks forward to working with the new Administration to make our country safer.” ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) continues to fight for stronger national defenses and homeland security. The House today overwhelmingly passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017, which enhances border security and ramps up counterterrorism operations to combat terrorist travel. Chairman McCaul: “America is currently in the highest threat level environment since 9/11. It is imperative that our nation’s military and security agencies have the funding they need to carry out the critical task of protecting our homeland and the American people. This bill, which includes numerous provisions that were authored by the Committee, provides the Department of Homeland Security with the necessary capabilities and direction to better secure our borders, prevent foreign fighter and terrorist travel, and enhance our cybersecurity capabilities to defend against future threats. I would especially like to commend Chairman Thornberry for his strong leadership on this authorization bill.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2004. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) applauds the U.S. House passage of two health provisions he drafted to address childhood cancer, which were included in the 21st Century Cures Act. The U.S. House of Representatives passed an updated 21st Century Cures Act to accelerate the discovery, development, and delivery of promising new treatments and cures tailored to individuals, rather than one-size-fits-all treatments. It also allocates an additional $4.8 billion in research funding to the National Institute of Health and $550 million to the Food and Drug Administration in order to find cures to diseases that affect all Americans. “I applaud the passage of the 21st Century Cures Act, which includes two provisions I spearheaded to fight against childhood cancer,” McCaul said. “One incentivizes the development of new treatments for children with rare pediatric diseases through the reauthorization of the Creating Hope Act. The other includes key provisions of the Andrea Sloan CURE Act to expand patient access to potentially lifesaving treatments through the Food and Drug Administration’s compassionate use process. It is a privilege to work for better treatments for patients and families in the 10th Congressional district and across America.” The 21st Century Cures Act will now head to the Senate for their consideration. Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2004. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
11.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement in response to the attack at The Ohio State University this morning: Chairman McCaul: “Our thoughts go out to the victims, their families, and the community at Ohio State University. I commend the first responders, whose swift action today undoubtedly saved lives. We owe these patriots for their courage and willingness to run into harm's way. Today’s attack has the hallmarks of terror. And while we do not yet have confirmation of terrorist connections, this is the type of indiscriminate violence our enemies are urging their followers to use against us. Whatever the case, we will continue to monitor the investigation to ensure any potential accomplices or instigators are found and brought to justice.” ###
11.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today issued the following statement regarding the death of Fidel Castro: Chairman McCaul: “Fidel Castro’s tyrannical regime was marked by the ruthless oppression of his own people and aggression towards the United States. After a 54-year freeze in diplomatic relations, I warned the Obama Administration to take a serious look at the national security implications of normalizing relations with the Castro dictatorship. But President Obama pushed through misguided policies at breakneck speed, with minimal regard for the safety and security of the American people and our homeland. While the Obama Administration was willing to put legacy building above our national security, I am confident the new Administration will rethink this policy of rapprochement.” ###
11.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson today calling on him to enforce applicable laws governing employee conversions from political to career positions. The practice, known as “burrowing” can impede the priorities of the incoming Administration. McCaul’s letter asks the DHS to provide information on career Senior Executive Service appointments before a government-wide moratorium takes place and any requests for exceptions. Chairman McCaul: “Today I sent a warning to the Obama Administration not to let political appointees 'burrow in' at DHS. The President-elect has the right to pick his own team, and allowing Obama appointees to embed themselves into the bureaucracy for the long haul could create unnecessary interference with this process. DHS must adhere to the law and ensure its federal workforce is independent and free from political influence. Rewarding political appointees by converting their jobs into career positions runs counter to that principle, and it would further erode morale at DHS.” ###
11.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement on the heels of a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General report highlighting the mishandling of thousands of Green Cards over the past three years. Chairman McCaul: "This is unacceptable. We cannot let 'free passes' into America fall into the wrong hands and be used by terrorists, criminals, or others to hide amongst us. Whether it's aviation security or the security of our immigration system, the American people are losing faith that DHS is able to do its job. This is yet another wake up call that it's time for sweeping reform across the Department. The American people are fed up with business as usual. They are demanding, once and for all, that we secure our borders, enforce our immigration laws, and shut down all illegal pathways into the United States. And Congress and the new President are going to honor that request.” ###
11.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) released the following statement after the U.S. House passed H.R. 6297, Iran Sanctions Extension Act. Chairman McCaul: “Today I was pleased to support the passage of legislation to reauthorize the Iran Sanctions Act (ISA). Since its enactment twenty years ago, ISA continues to remain a core element of U.S. efforts to counter Iranian aggression. This legislation extends sanctions for 10 years on Iran’s illicit weapons programs and ballistic missile development that were not suspended as part of the Obama administration’s flawed nuclear deal. While I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to hold Iran accountable when it blatantly violates international law, allowing ISA to expire at the end of this year would be denying the next Administration a critical tool to safeguard our county.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2004. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
11.04.2016	Washington, D.C. – House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement on the heels of the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) announcement of their efforts to expand air preclearance operations to eleven additional foreign airports. Preclearance is an integral part of a layered approach to our homeland security where Customs and Border Protection personnel screen all travelers prior to departing to the United States. Chairman McCaul: “Now more than ever, our national security demands that we ‘push our borders out’ to make us safer. The value of preclearance operations has only intensified in the post-9/11 threat environment, as we continue to bolster border security and counterterrorism efforts to prevent the travel of foreign fighters and other nefarious actors bound for our shores. Preclearance is a key layer of defense critical to protecting the homeland and thwarting terror plots long before they reach our country. I am encouraged that the Swedish government has signed an agreement to implement preclearance operations at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. As a last point of departure airport for many flights bound for the United States, Stockholm’s preclearance facility will greatly enhance our counterterrorism efforts and help keep Americans safe.” Note: The House passed the Homeland Security Committee’s preclearance bill, H.R. 998, the Preclearance Authorization Act of 2015, which authorizes DHS to expand its preclearance operations with increased Congressional oversight and cooperation on June 25, 2015 by voice vote. H.R. 998 was enacted into law as Section 811 of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015. ###
10.28.2016	AUSTIN, TX – Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) released the statement below following the FBI’s announcement that it would be reopening its investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s email arrangement: Chairman McCaul: “Hillary Clinton’s fast and loose handling of classified information has again put her under the investigation of the FBI and scrutiny of the American public. This decision to re-investigate is overdue and attributable to her egregious use of a private server and more than ‘extreme carelessness’ with some of our nation’s greatest secrets, while she was Secretary of State. Her actions have likely compromised our national security, American intelligence and the brave men and women who carry out our most important military operations. As a former federal prosecutor, I firmly believe and understand that no one should be above the law. Additionally, I strongly encourage the FBI to conduct this investigation in a swift and transparent manner.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2004. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
10.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Chairman Michael McCaul (TX-10) released the statement below following Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro’s undemocratic decision to halt the opposition’s recall vote drive, causing mass protests in the streets. Chairman McCaul: "Attempts by the Maduro government to undermine democracy through violence, intimidation, and oppression of the political opposition are deeply disturbing. Despite the fact that President Maduro’s actions are pulling his country farther from democracy, current protests in the streets of Caracas are a clear sign that the Venezuelan people will not accept a dictatorship. However, it is important that all parties refrain from using violence as a means to an end and take all opportunities to engage in serious dialogue. In the meantime, I urge President Maduro to allow for the immediate flow of humanitarian assistance, including food and medicine, to those in the country who need it most." Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2004. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
10.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) issued the following statement following a Los Angeles Times report that some California National Guard soldiers are being forced to pay back signing bonuses given to them a decade ago. Chairman McCaul: “Our soldiers are the frontline defenders of our freedoms. I am appalled by reports that thousands have been swindled out of retention and signing bonuses they were promised by their own Defense Department. I will look at all legislative options to ensure soldiers who have protected our homeland in times of war do not have to bear the financial burden of repaying bonuses promised to them more than a decade earlier.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2004. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
10.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement regarding accusations that Undersecretary Pat Kennedy offered a “quid pro quo” with the FBI during the investigation into Secretary Hillary Clinton’s email scandal. “Undersecretary Pat Kennedy’s attempts to inappropriately pressure the FBI to declassify Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s emails is inappropriate and deeply disturbing. Such blatant attempts to sway FBI investigations into matters concerning our national security cannot be tolerated and must have consequences. Until a real investigation into these matters occurs, President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry must demand Mr. Kennedy to step aside and immediately work to restore confidence in the American people that their safety and security will not be sold as a part of any exchange, or quid pro quo.” Congressman Michael McCaul has represented the 10th District of Texas since 2004. Currently, he serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and senior member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
10.07.2016	Washington, D.C. - House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) today issued the following statement in response to the announcement by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the Department of Homeland Security regarding Russian government hacking against U.S. persons and institutions: Chairman McCaul: “This is a direct provocation against our people and our democracy. The Russian government has now targeted members of both political parties and appears intent on undermining confidence in our electoral process. We cannot allow such actions to go unanswered. President Obama must send a clear signal to Moscow: attempts to influence U.S. elections or interfere with our democratic system will be met with severe consequences. Only then can we deter this kind of cyber aggression. As Chairman, I will continue to work closely with Secretary Johnson and the Department of Homeland Security to ensure our government is equipped to provide state and local officials, if requested on a voluntary basis, with the tools they need to keep our critical networks secure. Vladimir Putin’s regime has crossed a line, and he should know that the United States will not allow our political process or our future to be dictated by foreign adversaries.” ###
09.22.2016	WASHINTON, DC.– Yesterday, following the introduction of a bipartisan resolution highlighting the 1988 massacre of thousands of Iranians deemed political opponents of the brutal, oppressive regime in Iran, Congressman McCaul and Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Eliott Engel (D-NY) released the following statements. McCaul: “For decades, the regime in Iran has refused to acknowledge this massacre,” said Rep. McCaul. “Furthermore, many involved in this massacre in 1988 still hold high-level positions within the government of Iran, including the current justice minister. We must hold those responsible for these atrocities accountable and reinvigorate our opposition to the gross abuses of human rights in Iran that still go on today.” Engel: “I’m proud to be part of the bipartisan effort to spotlight these atrocious killings in 1988,” said Rep. Engel. “This is not ancient history, and those responsible must be brought to justice. This resolution will put the Iranian leadership on notice that the world does not forget about such gross violations of human rights.” According to Amnesty International, Iran was responsible for the execution of an estimated 4,500 to 5,000 men, women and children in the summer of 1988. However, the true number of dead remains unknown. To this day, the Iranian government refuses to be transparent with the families of the victims of this massacre. This resolution was introduced on September 21, 2016 by Representative McCaul and includes Reps. Engel and Ed Royce, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as original cosponsors.
09.09.2016	McCaul: “North Korea’s most recent nuclear ballistics test, which was in direct violation of the United Nations Security Council resolution, leaves no question that the United States must act with our international partners to deter the threats that continue to emanate from the regime. This should include strong sanctions enforcement specifically targeting the main revenue streams and supply chains which allow for the continued procurement of such weapons. Failure to send a clear response will encourage this sort of unacceptable behavior and embolden Kim Jong Un, worsening a real and direct threat to the national security interests of the United States.”
08.03.2016	McCaul Statement on Obama Administration Payment to Iranian Regime AUSTIN, TX– Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement following the Wall Street Journal’s report that the Obama administration made a $400 million payment to Iran on the same day that Iran released four American prisoners. McCaul: "This ‘coincidental' payment represents more than just the lengths the Obama Administration will go to appease the ayatollahs in Iran to preserve a disastrous nuclear deal. No matter how you look at this payment, one thing is clear - it sends the wrong signal to the world. If you are our allies in the region trying to contain Iran’s expansion, this payment represents abandonment. If you are Iran’s terror proxies, such as Hezbollah and Hamas, operating daily to undermine U.S. national security, it represents renewed financing of continued terror operations. And if you are the American people, this transaction represents a taxpayer-funded ransom payment paid by the United States of America to our enemy, who since January, has detained two more American citizens. This decision has further jeopardized the safety and security of allies in the region and Americans abroad, and the Obama Administration’s lack of transparency and refusal to respond to congressional inquiries surrounding this payment should lead the American people to wonder what’s next?" ###
07.11.2016	McCaul and Olson Introduce Legislation to Revoke Secretary Clinton’s Security Clearance WASHINGTON, DC– Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Pete Olson (R-TX) introduced the Taking Responsibility Using Secured Technologies (TRUST) Act of 2016 in the House. This legislation mirrors the legislation introduced in the Senate last week by Senator Cornyn (R-TX) and Senator Gardner (R-CO). This bill would revoke Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s security clearance as well as the security clearances of Secretary Clinton’s colleagues at the State Department who exhibited extreme carelessness in their handling of classified information. Additionally, the TRUST Act expresses the sense of Congress that Secretary Clinton should not have access to classified information again until she earns the legal right to such access. “FBI Director James Comey stated that Former Secretary of State Clinton was 'extremely careless' in her handling of 'very sensitive, highly classified information.' In November, the American people will have their opportunity to hold her accountable for the potential damage her actions have done to the security of the United States. Until then, one thing is clear: Hillary Clinton and anyone else who demonstrates extreme carelessness should not have access to classified information,” said Congressman McCaul. "It puts our national security and American lives at risk to trust someone with as disastrous as a track record as hers to properly handle such information. Her actions are grounds for disciplinary action, not a promotion to the most powerful office in the world - and we must send a clear message to all we trust with a security clearance that extreme carelessness will not be tolerated,” McCaul concluded. Congressman Pete Olson said: "The FBI confirmed that in spite of her claims to the contrary, Hillary Clinton improperly stored and transmitted highly classified information in a reckless manner. While the FBI investigation is now closed and Clinton faces no criminal charges, Congress can act. In its investigation, the FBI could not confirm whether any of the sensitive US classified information was hacked by China, Russia, Iran, North Korea or another outside organization. This information confirms that at a minimum, she cannot be trusted with highly sensitive information,” Olson concluded. The legislation follows the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) investigation into Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal e-mail system in her capacity as Secretary of State. In an announcement earlier this week, FBI Director James Comey said that “there is evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information” and “none of these e-mails should have been on any kind of unclassified system, but their presence is especially concerning because all of these e-mails were housed on unclassified personal servers not even supported by full-time security staff.” The FBI uncovered several thousand additional emails related to her position, some of which contained classified material, that were not included in the 30,000 emails Clinton handed over to the State Department. Comey concluded the FBI’s findings with “we assess it is possible that hostile actors gained access to Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail account.” Comey stated the investigation initially focused on whether classified information was transmitted on Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail system and evolved to determine if there is evidence that classified information was not properly transmitted or stored on that personal e-mail system and whether there is evidence that the system was hacked by foreign or hostile hackers. While Comey confirmed that classified information was transmitted and stored improperly and the personal e-mail system may have been hacked, he formally recommended that no charges be filed against Secretary Clinton. ###
07.08.2016	McCaul Statement on Dallas Police Ambush WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and Dallas native released the following statement after law enforcement officials were targeted and shot in Dallas on Thursday night: Congressman McCaul: "The attack against law enforcement officers in Dallas is horrific. My heart and condolences are with the victims' families and the people of Dallas in the wake of this terrible tragedy. America’s public safety officials are the front line defenders against lawlessness and the brave protectors of our communities. Today and every day, we stand shoulder to shoulder with our police officers and first responders and with the people of my hometown of Dallas."
07.06.2016	McCaul Statement on Troop Levels in Afghanistan WASHINGTON, DC– Today following President Obama’s announcement that he intends to keep in place 8,400 troops in Afghanistan through the end of his presidency, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement: McCaul: "President Obama has acknowledged the deteriorating security environment in Afghanistan and rightly reversed his previous plan to reduce U.S. troop levels from 9,800 to 5,500 by the of the year. However, his decision to withdraw 1,400 troops this year poses considerable risks to the national security of the U.S. and to our men and women serving in the region. The Taliban controls more territory in Afghanistan than at any time since 2001. Our commanders on the ground have repeatedly warned of al Qaeda’s resurgence there, and key al Qaeda allies like the Haqqani Network remain a significant threat. ISIS has also attempted to open up another front in Afghanistan as part of its global war. You do not need to be a military strategist to question the wisdom of reducing American forces under these security conditions. We are in Afghanistan to prevent the regeneration of a safe haven for Islamist terrorists trying to attack the United States – we must maintain a robust presence there to accomplish this mission alongside our Afghan and coalition allies. Furthermore, we should learn the history of previous mistakes in Iraq instead of repeat them."
07.05.2016	McCaul Statement on FBI Investigation of Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton"Secretary Clinton will still have to answer to and be held accountable by the American people." WASHINGTON, DC– Today following the announcement by Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey that charges would not be brought against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement: McCaul: "One thing is clear from FBI Director Comey’s announcement today—Secretary Clinton was not fully honest in her representation of her use of email to the American people. She was careless with classified and sensitive information and potentially did harm to the United States and our national security. Secretary Clinton will still have to answer to and be held accountable by the American people."
06.24.2016	Rep. McCaul, Gov. Abbott, Lt. Gov Patrick Lead TX Congressional Delegation Letter to President on Syrian Refugees WASHINGTON, DC– Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) was joined by Governor Greg Abbott (R-TX), Lt. Governor Dan Patrick (R-TX) and the entire Republican Congressional Texas delegation, in sending a letter to President Obama regarding the Syrian Refugee crisis. The letter calls into question the handling of the Syrian refugee crisis by the administration given the stated intention by ISIS to infiltrate the program and exploit it in order to carry out attacks on the west. In an excerpt, the letter states “we believe your Administration has manifestly failed to reassure and adequately engage State and local governments on these resettlements” and insists “that you work with the State of Texas to reform your Administration’s refugee resettlement policies and procedures immediately.” “ISIS has threatened to infiltrate Syrian refugee flows to attack the West—and has already done so. Yet the Obama administration has not taken the threat seriously enough and has failed to take the steps needed to keep terrorists out of America,” said McCaul. "Just this month German authorities disrupted an ISIS plot orchestrated by operatives who arrived pretending to be Syrian refugees. The threat is real,” he continued. “In the wake of the ISIS-inspired attack in Orlando, the deadliest on American soil since 9/11, we must be vigilant about shutting down all pathways terrorists could use to get into our country or radicalize our people. That is why communities must be more involved in making sure the refugee program is secure, and the State of Texas must have a say in keeping potentially dangerous individuals from infiltrating it. We are a compassionate nation, but we cannot allow our enemies to take advantage of our humanitarian efforts to do our own people harm.” The full letter can be viewed here. In November 2015, Congressman McCaul’s SAFE Act passed the House. The SAFE Act would require comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria and certification that each does not pose a threat before they can be admitted into the United States
06.12.2016	Orlando: "Our Thoughts and Prayers Are With the Victims" WASHINGTON, D.C. – With more than fifty people dead and dozens more wounded after the Orlando nightclub terror attack, House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement: Chairman McCaul: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this senseless tragedy, their families, and the people of Orlando. I want to thank local law enforcement for their bravery in responding to this massacre. This appears to be the worst terrorist attack on American soil since 9/11, and it is a sobering reminder that radical Islamists are targeting our country and our way of life. But Americans will not be intimidated by these fanatics. Instead, tragedies like we saw in Orlando only strengthen our resolve to fight back against terror and prevail over extremism wherever it emerges.”
05.20.2016	McCaul Statement on Extradition Approval of El Chapo Guzman by Mexico’s Government WASHINGTON, DC– Today, following the announcement that Mexico’s government has approved extradition of El Chapo Guzman to the U.S. Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement: McCaul: "Today is a victory for all the victims of El Chapo Guzman’s reign of terror. I am encouraged by the Mexican government’s decision to approve extradition of this murderous thug to the United States where he will be unable to escape from prison and will have justice brought to him for all of the horrors he has committed as head of the Sinaloa cartel. I urge Mexican authorities to deny any appeal that Guzman’s lawyers may present, and am hopeful that Guzman will soon be in U.S. custody." ###
04.25.2016	McCaul Statement on Federal Disaster Declaration for Texas Counties Affected by Storm WASHINGTON, DC– Tonight, following the announcement that a federal disaster declaration has been granted for the Texas counties affected by last week’s storms, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement: McCaul: "I am pleased that the President and FEMA have acted to ensure Texas can immediately begin to recover from the devastating weather it has endured over the past week. I thank Governor Abbott for his leadership and the entire Texas Congressional delegation for joining me in supporting him, our constituents and the State of Texas.” Congressman McCaul on Sunday had sent a letter to the President, signed by the entire Texas delegation, urging him and FEMA to act quickly. ###
04.24.2016	McCaul Leads Texas Delegation Letter Urging President Obama to Agree to Governor Abbott’s Disaster Declaration Request WASHINGTON, DC– Today, following Governor Abbott’s request for President Obama to declare a federal disaster for the areas of Texas affected by the recent severe weather, Congressman Michael McCaul authored a letter, and was joined by the entire Texas Congressional delegation, urging the President to “give expeditious consideration to, and approval of” Governor Abbott’s request: McCaul: "The severe weather and its aftermath that has impacted Texas and most of my district has been truly devastating. The images and stories coming out of not only the areas I represent, but across the state, are nothing short of heartbreaking. I, along with the other members of the Texas delegation, stand with Governor Abbott in his request for a federal disaster declaration from President Obama. We were sent to Washington to help our constituents in times like these. That is why I have authored a letter leading the entire Texas delegation as we join together in urging the President to agree to Governor Abbott’s request. The sooner the President does this, the sooner our friends, neighbors, and the families and businesses affected by these storms can begin to recover. I will continue to be in close contact with Governor Abbott and assist him in any way that I can. My condolences go out to the families and friends of those who have lost a loved one and my prayers are with the people of Texas.” A copy of the letter can be found here.
04.20.2016	McCaul Statement on Supreme Court Ruling on Central Bank of Iran v. Peterson WASHINGTON, DC– Following today’s Supreme Court ruling that upheld the House’s position that families of the victims of the 1983 Marine Corps bombing in Lebanon are entitled to damages from Iran, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement: McCaul: "I applaud the Supreme Court for standing with Congress to make Iran pay for their state-sponsored terror attacks on the U.S. Marine barracks in Lebanon in 1983. For years, the families of the Marines who lost their lives have waited patiently for this rogue regime to be held accountable for their murderous actions. Today justice was served. This is an important and long-overdue step in fighting back against Iranian aggression. However, the fact remains that Iran, through the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), continues to fund terrorist activities around the globe. President Obama must now put aside selfish ambition and work with Congress in taking more aggressive actions to deter future state-sponsored terrorist attacks. There is no better way to start than by classifying the IRGC for what it is, a foreign terrorist organization. I will continue to work tirelessly to ensure President Obama does not turn a blind eye to Iran’s belligerence for the sake of a deeply-flawed nuclear deal. As we have seen, doing so only results in continued destabilizing actions by a regime that chants ‘death to America' and undermines the national security of the U.S. and her allies." ###
03.16.2016	McCaul Statement on Supreme Court Nomination WASHINGTON, DC– Today following the President’s nomination of Merrick Garland, chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, to the Supreme Court, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement: McCaul: "Senator Cornyn and the Republican leadership in the Senate are correct in their decision to not confirm President Obama’s nominee to the Supreme Court. The precedent has been set for decades, and was continued by Vice President Biden when he was in the Senate, that the Senate should not confirm a Supreme Court nomination in an election year. The American people should have a voice in the direction of the court. They will have the opportunity to be heard at the ballot box in November."
02.13.2016	McCaul Statement on Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia AUSTIN, TX– Today following the news that Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia passed away at the age of 79, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement: McCaul: "Today our country has suffered a great loss. Justice Scalia was a champion of our constitution and a protector of liberty. His approach to the rule of law and his time on the bench are exactly what the founding fathers envisioned. Justice Scalia's impact will be missed by the judicial community and his love for our nation and our constitution will be missed by all Americans." ###
01.12.2016	McCaul Statement on State of the UnionThe President has appeased, rather than opposed, our adversaries from the start WASHINGTON, D.C. – In reaction to President Obama’s final State of the Union address, Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul released the following statement. “The President has appeased, rather than opposed, our adversaries from the start,” said Chairman McCaul. “So it is not surprising that in his last State of the Union Address he touted his naïve and dangerous nuclear deal with Iran despite their military holding American sailors captive. And when it comes to the terror threat we face, once again we heard the President offer rhetoric in the clouds while terrorists plot in our city streets. “Today I met with law enforcement officials from San Bernardino, and I can tell you what they need: actions, not words, to secure our country,” Chairman McCaul continued. “Yet the White House is more focused on releasing battle-hardened extremists from Guantanamo Bay than keeping terrorists from opening up new safe havens across the world. Sadly, it appears the President still wants to falsely declare the war against Islamist terror over, while Americans want him to win it.” In contrast to the President’s comments, the Committee found that the United States faces an unprecedented terror threat level at home due to the continued failure to destroy ISIS. See January’s Terror Threat Snapshot for more information on the current state of our Homeland Security. ###
01.08.2016	McCaul Again Calls for Extradition of Drug Kingpin ‘el Chapo’ to the United States WASHINGTON, DC– Today following the announcement that Sinaloa cartel kingpin Joaquin ‘el Chapo’ Guzman has been arrested once again by Mexican authorities, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, made the following statement: McCaul: "While I commend our Mexican law enforcement counterparts for once again arresting notorious drug kingpin Joaquin ‘el Chapo’ Guzman, I still firmly believe that his extradition to the United States is the best course of action, as I called for the last time he was last arrested. El Chapo has proven time and time again that Mexican prisons are no match for his network of criminals or his desire to escape prison. He needs to be brought to the United States where he faces multiple charges and where we know he will not be able to escape from incarceration. We cannot afford to allow this murderous kingpin to slip through the bonds of justice again."” Congressman McCaul originally led calls for extradition in February of 2014 when Guzman was last captured. ###
01.06.2016	McCaul on Reconciliation Act: “an across the board victory for the American people" WASHINGTON, DC– Today following the House of Representatives passage of H.R. 3762, Restoring American's Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement: McCaul: "Today’s reconciliation vote is an across the board victory for the American people and it has been a long time coming. Republicans in Congress have been listening to our constituents and we have overcome the obstructionist tactics employed by Democrats. The result; for the first time we have sent to the president’s desk legislation that repeals the foundations of Obamacare including its multi-billion dollar slush fund, defunds Planned Parenthood, and cuts the deficit over half a trillion dollars. It is time for the president to put aside his veto threats, do the right thing, and sign this bill that ends the individual and employer mandates in Obamacare and a vast majority of its burdensome taxes, protects the unborn, and begins to put us back on a path to fiscal stability."
01.04.2016	McCaul Statement on President Obama's Executive Overreach on Second Amendment Rights AUSTIN, TX– Tonight following President Obama’s announcement of his forthcoming executive actions on guns, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement: McCaul: "Once again president Obama has overstepped his constitutional boundaries and bypassed the elected representatives of the American people and their will. His executive orders will do nothing to stop those who seek to commit acts of violence as we tragically saw with the San Bernardino terror attack late last year. The president's failure as a leader on national security has led him to hide behind a political maneuver designed to rally his base in an election year."
12.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus Co-chairs Congressmen Jim Langevin (D-RI) and Michael McCaul (R-TX) today sent a letter to National Security Advisor Susan Rice urging the Administration’s involvement in revising the U.S. implementation of export controls on cybersecurity software. The letter, which is signed by 125 bipartisan Members of Congress, expresses concerns that, without careful tailoring, export controls could have both a chilling effect on research and a negative impact on the nation’s overall cybersecurity posture. The underlying goal of the export controls, which were agreed to by the 41 member states of the Wassenaar Arrangement, is to restrict the export of hacking tools, or “intrusion software,” that could be used for cybercrime and illegal surveillance. Although well intended, the legislators argue such terminology is very broadly defined in the original language of the Arrangement and that the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) did not sufficiently tailor the definition when issuing its draft regulations. As a result, the original rule could have included a number of cybersecurity research products and defensive tools, thereby potentially hindering the ability of network operators to defend against cyber-attack. Langevin and McCaul, along with Congressmen Ted Lieu (D-CA) and David Schweikert (R-AZ), submitted public comments in July outlining flaws in the original draft. “BIS has conducted an unprecedented degree of outreach on this issue, and I greatly appreciate their flexibility and transparency,” said Langevin, a senior member of the House Committee on Homeland Security and its Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies. “However, I think it is incumbent upon the White House to weigh in and help deconflict the guidance BIS has been receiving from the various agencies, particularly the State Department.” “This proposed rule – and perhaps the underlying agreement itself – would have significant unintended consequences for security researchers, cybersecurity providers, and our overall cyber posture. As reports emerge that the Departments of Homeland Security and Commerce share our concerns, I hope that this bipartisan message from the House of Representatives will spur the rest of the Administration to right the ship. We cannot let the good intentions of these export controls trump the fact that in their current form they would depreciate cyber security at home and for billions around the world,” said McCaul, chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security. The letter calls for the revised rule to “greatly narrow the range of affected technologies” so that the regulations “conform to the United States’ broader cybersecurity strategy.” In addition to sending the letter to Ambassador Rice, Langevin and McCaul today called for oversight hearings on the implementation of cybersecurity export controls and their potential implications on national security.
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today in his inaugural State of Homeland Security Address, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul brought to light new concerns regarding refugees with ties to terrorist groups in Syria who might try to enter the United States. This year, Chairman McCaul wrote to intelligence officials regarding possible terrorist exploitation of Syrian refugee flows, and today he released unclassified excerpts from a response letter provided by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence earlier this year, which informed the Chairman that: The National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC) has identified “…individuals with ties to terrorist groups in Syria attempting to gain entry to the U.S. through the U.S. refugee program.” In the same response letter, NCTC also offered that: “The refugee system, like all immigration programs, is vulnerable to exploitation from extremist groups seeking to send operatives to the West. U.S. and Canadian authorities in 2011 arrested several refugees linked to what is now ISIL. Early in 2011, Canadian authorities arrested dual Iraqi-Canadian citizen Faruq ‘Isa who is accused of vetting individuals on the internet for suicide operations in Iraq. The FBI, in May of the same year, arrested Kentucky-based Iraqi refugees Wa’ad Ramadan Alwan and Mohanad Shareef Hammadi for attempting to send weapons and explosives from Kentucky to Iraq and conspiring to commit terrorism while in Iraq. Alwan pled guilty to the charges against him in December 2011, and Hammadi pled guilty in August 2012.” Chairman McCaul made the following statement in response to these revelations: “ISIS has said in their own words that they want to exploit the refugee program to enter the West. They have already proven their ability to do so with the attacks in Paris, which were reportedly perpetrated by terrorists who infiltrated Europe through refugee flows. I have deep concerns with what I have heard from the intelligence community regarding the vulnerability of the U.S.-bound Syrian refugee pipeline, and these revelations reaffirm my belief that we need tighter security to keep terrorists from slipping into the United States. I call on the Senate to take up our refugee security bill and the President to sign it.” Correction: An earlier comment by Chairman McCaul that the specific terrorist group ISIS has attempted to exploit the refugee program to get to the United States was a misstatement. Learn more about Chairman McCaul’s bill to enhance the security of refugee screening, click here. To see a recent Committee report on counterterrorism challenges associated with Syrian refugees, click here. *Due to classification concerns, no additional information from this letter can be provided.
12.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representative Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced the “Christmas Tree Tax Exclusion Act” which would allow “choose- and-cut” Christmas tree producers, like the Elgin CHRISTmas Tree Farm in Texas’ 10th congressional district, the choice to opt out of the Christmas Tree Promotion and Research Program, a USDA administered commodity checkoff program that forces choose-and-cut growers to pay for a promotional campaign for the entire Christmas tree industry. McCaul: “While I understand the importance of these checkoff programs to certain industries,” said Representative McCaul, “the choose-and-cut Christmas tree industry is a niche market that does not fit the mold of other commodities and therefore does not benefit from this promotional program. Instead this industry thrives off the local culture surrounding it, allowing for local customers to pick and cut their own Christmas tree and rewarding them with the unique experience of doing so. By federally mandating that choose-and-cut businesses take part in this national promotional program, the U.S. Department of Agriculture is forcing the entire industry to pay for an advertising campaign that primarily benefits large, national Christmas tree producers selling to the wholesale market, not small tree farms like the Elgin CHRISTmas Tree Farm in my district.” The Christmas Tree Tax Exclusion Act would continue to allow USDA to proceed with the check-off program, but would restrict the Federal government from forcing small businesses to take part and afford them the option to opt out if they so choose. The Christmas tree tax was first proposed in November 2010, when the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) issued a regulation establishing a program for large-size Christmas tree producers to tax consumer for the purpose of marketing their trees. The Administration suspended the implementation of the regulation after a public backlash, only to see the regulation quietly revived in the 2014 Farm Bill. Last year an amendment offered in the House of Representatives by Representative Jackie Walorski (R-IN), and supported by Representative McCaul, would have blocked the tax from going into effect, but it was narrowly defeated. No similar vote was taken in the Senate.
11.19.2015	American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act Passes HouseOverwhelming, Bipartisan, Veto-Proof Support WASHINGTON, D.C. – With many of our nation’s top national security officials expressing concern over the ability to ensure ISIS terrorists are not exploiting the Syrian refugee program, the House today passed the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, H.R. 4038. The 289 – 132 vote was overwhelming, bipartisan, and veto-proof. The bill, introduced by Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul and Congressman Richard Hudson, requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria and certification that each does not pose a threat before they can be admitted into the United States. “Today the House took decisive action to show the American people we are doing all we can to protect our country,” said Chairman McCaul. “We must listen to the words of our enemies. ISIS has vowed in their words to 'exploit the refugee process, to sneak operatives, to infiltrate the West.’ They appear to have already done that to attack our allies. Last week the streets of Paris could have just as easily been the streets of New York, or Chicago, or Houston, or Los Angeles. ” “The People’s House has spoken – Republicans and Democrats came together in a veto-proof majority to respond to the will of the American people and do our primary job to keep them safe,” said Rep. Hudson. “Today’s strong bipartisan vote doesn't say stop Syrian and Iraqi refugees and don’t ever let them in again. It says pause the program unless and until the top security officials in the United States are comfortable that we have a safe and reliable process and the American people can be assured that terrorists aren’t exploiting our country’s compassion by posing as refugees. I encourage our colleagues in the Senate to swiftly take up this common sense, reasonable bill to keep terrorists out and the American people safe.” The American SAFE Act requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States and certification that each does not pose a threat. Specifically, under this legislation, no refugee from Iraq or Syria will be admitted into the U.S. unless: 1. the FBI Director certifies the background investigation of each refugee; and 2. the Secretary of Homeland Security, along with the FBI Director and the Director of National Intelligence, certifies to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the United States. Under this legislation, no Syrian or Iraqi refugee can enter the United States until the American people’s representatives in Congress receive these certifications. It also creates an additional layer of protection by requiring the DHS Inspector General to independently assess the refugee approvals—making sure that high-risk individuals do not slip through the cracks. Full text of H.R. 4038 is available, here. Nation’s Top Security Officials’ Concerns on Refugee Vetting is available, here. ###
11.18.2015	McCaul and Hudson Introduce Bill to Protect Americans from ISISEnsures Refugee Process is not Exploited by Terrorists and Foreign Fighters WASHINGTON, DC– Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Richard Hudson (R-NC) together took an important step forward in protecting the Americans from ISIS and other Islamist terrorists looking to exploit the refugee program and conduct attacks in the U.S. H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, would put in place the most robust national-security vetting process in history for any refugee population and it gives the American people the assurances needed that we will do everything possible to prevent terrorists from reaching our shores. “America has a proud tradition of welcoming refugees into our country, and we lead the world in humanitarian assistance. However, we also must put proper measures in place to ensure our country’s safety,” said Chairman McCaul. “I would like to recognize Congressman Hudson for his leadership on this bill and appreciate his willingness to work with me on this important legislation. The bill requires the nation’s top security officials—the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence—to certify before admitting any Syrian or Iraqi refugee into the United States that the individual does not represent a security threat. “I sent a letter to President Obama on Monday,” McCaul continued, “calling for a temporary suspension of Syrian refugee admissions until a full review of the resettlement program, including vetting security risks, could be completed. It is apparent that the President will ignore these concerns, making this legislation necessary to toughen security measures in order to keep terrorists from infiltrating America disguised as refugees. We cannot afford to play Russian roulette with our national security.” "I was glad to work with Chairman McCaul on this reasonable approach to stop the open flow of 10,000 Syrian refugees to the United States without adequate vetting,” said Congressman Hudson. "Our top responsibility is to protect the American people and this common sense approach is one step necessary to do just that.” continued Hudson. "America is a compassionate nation. No country on Earth does more or spends more to care for our fellow man. But being compassionate doesn't mean we have to have reckless policies that put American lives at risk.” The American SAFE Act requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States and certification that each does not pose a threat. Specifically, under this legislation, no refugee from Iraq or Syria will be admitted into the U.S. unless: 1. The FBI Director certifies the background investigation of each refugee; and 2. The Secretary of Homeland Security, along with the FBI Director and the Director of National Intelligence, certifies to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the United States. Under this legislation, no Syrian or Iraqi refugee can enter the United States until the American people’s representatives in Congress receive these certifications. It also creates an additional layer of protection by requiring the DHS Inspector General to independently assess the refugee approvals—making sure that high-risk individuals do not slip through the cracks. Full text of H.R. 4038 is available, here. Chairman McCaul’s letter to President Obama on Syrian Refugees is available, here.
11.06.2015	McCaul on President’s Keystone Pipeline Decision: “politics at its worst." WASHINGTON, DC– Today following the President’s announcement that he will not approve the Keystone XL Pipeline, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement: McCaul: “The President’s decision to continually ignore the representatives of the American people and reject the Keystone XL pipeline is politics at its worst. The Keystone XL pipeline received bipartisan support when it passed Congress, it would create jobs, help our economy, and help America become a more independent energy power. But because he is beholden to special interests, the President has decided to reject its construction. This lack of leadership and political maneuvering is why the American people are fed up with Washington." ###
11.05.2015	McCaul Statement on Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act WASHINGTON, DC– Today following passage of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform (STRR) Act, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement: McCaul: “Right here in Texas we understand the challenges of transportation and overcrowded highways. In fact, just this week Texans voted overwhelmingly to fund state-wide highway projects. With this highway bill, Congress is upholding it’s side of the equation for once. While it’s by no means perfect, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform (STRR) Act of 2015 will give folks in Texas a long-term plan and the support and certainty they need to invest in large-scale transportation construction and repairs. The STRR Act also cuts red tape and reforms the environmental review process and cleans up bureaucracy within the Department of Transportation. The improvements this legislation makes to our critical infrastructure and the certainty it provides for people who live and work in Texas earned my support along with the support of an overwhelming majority of my colleagues. It isn’t perfect, but it is what our country needs; more state control, more jobs, and better roads."
11.05.2015	McCaul Statement on NDAA Being Sent Back to the President's Desk WASHINGTON, DC– Today following the House vote to send the National Defense Authorization Act back to the President's Desk, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, made the following statement: McCaul: “Today's vote to send the NDAA back to the President after his politically motivated and reckless veto is a victory for our national security. At a time when we face an array of threats emanating from the Middle East, Europe, and Asia, the defense authorization bill ensures that our troops have the funding and tools they need. I hope the President listens to the will of the American people and signs this NDAA instead of choosing politics over our troops and the fight against Islamist terrorists, including ISIS and al Qaeda, who are actively threatening our homeland.”
10.29.2015	McCaul Statement on Speaker of the House Paul Ryan WASHINGTON, DC– Today following an overwhelming show of support for new Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI), Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, made the following statement: McCaul: "Paul Ryan is the effective conservative leader that our country needs. He has a strong record on addressing out-of-control federal spending and advancing commonsense, conservative priorities that benefit all Americans. I am confident that the House of Representatives will become a more open and transparent institution under his leadership, and that Speaker Ryan will work with my colleagues and me in the months and years to come to better serve the American people and get our country back on the right path."
10.28.2015	McCaul Statement on House Passed Budget Deal WASHINGTON, DC– Today following House passage of the budget deal that also raises the debt ceiling, H.R. 1314 Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), made the following statement: McCaul: "The entire manner in which this deal was cobbled together is disappointing. Our nation is threatened not only by ISIS and other extremist groups but also by an exploding national debt. This legislation raises the debt ceiling well beyond the $18 trillion we currently have without dollar for dollar offset spending cuts or structural changes, and it still fails to meet the Pentagon’s request for funding our troops."
10.23.2015	McCaul Statement on Passage of Reconciliation Package WASHINGTON, DC– Today, following the passage of H.R. 3762 – Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, Representative Michael McCaul (TX-10) issued the following statement about the bill: McCaul: "This reconciliation package will allow us to finally put a repeal of the two key pillars of Obamacare – the employer and individual mandates – on the President’s desk. He had the Senate to shield him the 4 times we passed a full repeal of Obamacare out of the House, but now the President will have to make a decision: respect the will of the American people or explain to them why his liberal agenda is more important than the economy and American's financial stability." ###
10.22.2015	McCaul Statement on President’s Veto of NDAA WASHINGTON, DC– Today following President Obama’s veto of the National Defense Authorization Act, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement: McCaul: "At a time when we face an array of threats emanating from the Middle East, Europe, and Asia, the President's veto of the defense authorization bill and his willingness to hold our national defense hostage to politics are irresponsible and send a dangerous signal to allies and enemies alike. Even worse, the President’s veto undermines the fight against Islamist terrorists, including ISIS and al Qaeda, who are actively threatening our homeland.”
10.09.2015	McCaul Statement on House Lifting Crude Oil Export Ban WASHINGTON, DC– Today following House passage of H.R. 702, to adapt to changing crude oil market conditions, which lifts the Crude Oil Export Ban, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement. McCaul: "I am pleased that the House has finally voted to lift the outdated ban on crude oil exports. Having introduced legislation in each of the last two Congresses to lift this ban, I am confident that doing so will help create jobs, bolster our economy, and strengthen our national security. The Senate and President Obama must act on this so America can take another step towards being an independent energy superpower while also helping our allies become less reliant on Russia and OPEC for their energy needs.” Congressman McCaul introduce the Crude Oil Export Act in January 2015 and in April 2014. He also recently coauthored an OpEd with Texas Railroad Commissioner Christi Craddick on the need to lift the ban. ###
09.18.2015	McCaul Statement on Planned Parenthood Funding Vote WASHINGTON, DC– Today following the House vote to withdraw taxpayer money from Planned Parenthood, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement: McCaul: "327,653. That is the number of abortions Planned Parenthood conducted in 2014. Planned Parenthood is proud of this number, saying ‘we’ve come a long way…’ Over the past few months, the American people have witnessed the release of increasingly disturbing series of videos exposing some of the barbaric practices and procedures conducted by Planned Parenthood. I am horrified by these morally reprehensible videos and by Planned Parenthood’s actions. Not one single dime of taxpayer money should be given to fund an organization that has zero regard for human life. I call on the Senate and President Obama to join with the House and do the right thing, defund Planned Parenthood today."
09.18.2015	McCaul Introduces Bill to Give Congress Oversight of Syrian Refugee Resettlement Program WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, introduced the Refugee Resettlement Oversight and Security Act. If enacted into law, this legislation would give the American people’s representatives the chance to vote up or down on the President’s plan to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees into the United States and improve the security vetting process. Specifically, this bill will: Require affirmative approval by both the House and Senate before any refugees are admitted to the U.S. Allow Congress to block any inadequate refugee resettlement plan put forward by the President. Require the Administration, when considering the admission of refugees from Iraq and Syria, to prioritize the resettlement of oppressed religious minorities. Ensure DHS, in coordination with DNI and FBI, provides new security assurances before admitting refugees into the country and for the Governmental Accountability Office to conduct a sweeping review of security gaps in the current refugee screening process. McCaul: "Many Americans are understandably concerned about the threat posed by inadequate security screening procedures for refugee seeking entry into the United States. ISIS themselves have stated their intention to take advantage of the crisis to infiltrate the west. We have to take this threat seriously. This bill will rein in the Administration’s refugee resettlement plans and give Congress more control over the process by requiring the Administration to get affirmative approval from Congress through the enactment of a joint resolution before any refugees may be admitted into the United States. These important security updates to the refugee process are necessary for not only the security of the United States, but for the safety of the refugees.” ###
08.14.2015	McCaul Statement on Commerce Department Approval of Crude Oil Swaps With Mexico AUSTIN, TX– Today, following the announcement that the U.S. Commerce Department has approved limited sales of U.S. crude oil to Mexico, Congressman Michael McCaul, author of the Crude Oil Export Act, released the following statement. McCaul: "I welcome the news that the U.S. is finally taking steps to open its crude oil market to Mexico. In the wake of last year’s historic reforms to Mexico’s energy sector, which ended a 70 year government controlled monopoly, it is about time for the U.S. to end our own antiquated energy policies starting with the crude oil export ban. While oil ‘swaps’ with Mexico is a step in the right direction, it is still a highly regulated and inefficient way of doing business with our neighbor and third largest trading partner. I continue to support repealing the entire ban on crude oil exports. We should start by treating Mexico the same as Canada and promote policies that maximize the efficient distribution of energy resources across North America." ###
07.29.2015	McCaul, Van Hollen, Speier, Reed, and Capito Introduce Bipartisan Childhood Cancer STAR Act WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Michael McCaul introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act of 2015. Congressman McCaul was joined by his fellow co-chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) as well as Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-CA) in introducing the legislation in the House and Senator Jack Reed (D-RI) and Senator Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) introduced the legislation in the Senate. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act would improve efforts to identify and track childhood cancer incidences, improve the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors, ensure publicly accessible expanded access policies that provide hope for patients who have run out of options, and identify opportunities to expand the research of therapeutics necessary to treat the 15,780 children diagnosed with cancer in the U.S. every year. Upon release of the legislation the sponsors made the following statements: Rep. McCaul: “Childhood cancer patients and their families don’t have high-paid lobbyists advocating on their behalf. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act will give them a stronger voice and more resources to combat this deadly disease, which remains the leading cause of death in American children. I am proud of the many activists in the childhood cancer community who were the drivers behind this legislation which reflects their priorities and hard work. I am also grateful to the National Cancer Institute for assisting us with this bill which will build on and strengthen many great efforts underway in government and the private sector to improve research, treatments and care for pediatric cancer patients, survivors, and their families.” Rep. Van Hollen: "A child is diagnosed with cancer every three minutes — and one in five children of these children do not survive. With cancer as the leading cause of death among young people in our country, we must do more. As part of that effort, the bipartisan Childhood Cancer STAR Act will help accelerate research for pediatric cancer and improve the care for childhood cancer patients." Rep. Speier: “With advances in research and treatment, more and more Americans are beating their cancer, But for many children, the fight does not end with remission. With as many as two-thirds of childhood cancer survivors experiencing secondary cancers or follow-up complications, it is imperative that we have a strategy to improve their care. I’m proud to introduce the Childhood Cancer STAR Act to address this epidemic and improve the quality of life for childhood cancer survivors and their families.” Senator Reed: “Too many young people’s lives have been cut short by cancer and we need to take action. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act will help young cancer patients and their families get access to potentially life-saving treatments, support survivors, and move us another step closer toward our goal of ending pediatric cancer.” Senator Capito: "This bipartisan legislation will continue the advances in research, prevention and care for our loved ones and families impacted by childhood cancer. The Childhood Cancer STAR Act gives parents and patients access to the information they need to make vital decisions about treatment and care post-treatment. This legislation will also give those who understand the unique needs of childhood cancer patients a seat at the table when decisions about cancer care are taking place." To read the legislative text of the Childhood Cancer STAR Act click here. A section by section of the bill is located here. A one-pager on the bill can be found here.
07.29.2015	Congressmen McCaul, Conaway, Cuellar Introduce Student Agriculture Protection Act WASHINGTON, DC– Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX-10), Congressman Michael Conaway (R-TX-11), the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) introduced the bipartisan Student Agriculture Protection Act. The legislation would exempt from taxation the first $5000 in proceeds on the sale of livestock or agricultural projects by Future Farmers of America and 4-H participants. McCaul: “The Student Agriculture Protection Act would help cultivate future generations of American farmers by allowing members of these organizations to keep more of their hard earned money made from the sale of livestock or special projects at county fairs and livestock shows. This will reward students for their hard work and allow the U.S. to remain outfitted with the innovative minds that have allowed us to be the world leader in agriculture.” Conaway: "Organizations like Future Farmers of America and 4-H provide students with invaluable experiences and encourage success through hard work. I’m proud to support legislation that will reward these students for all their efforts, and I hope that it will inspire more students to explore the possibility of a career in agriculture." Cuellar: "I have always been a strong supporter of agricultural education. The Student Agriculture Protection Act will encourage students to dedicate themselves to being the next innovators in the agriculture industry. The tax exemption will allow thousands of students who participate in livestock and county fairs across the country each year to take home a larger portion of what they earn." Full text of the the bill can be found here. ###
07.28.2015	Congressman McCaul Introduces Legislation to Cut Government Regulations WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) a introduced the One In, One Out Act. This legislation, which is based on existing policies in the U.K. and Canada, would require government agencies to repeal or revise one or more existing regulation before any new regulation can be implemented. The net effect of this legislation would be to neutralize the economic impact of any new regulations by ensuring that the cost for the new regulation cannot exceed the cost for the regulation it is replacing. Upon introduction of the legislation Congressman McCaul made the following statement. McCaul: “Over the last decade, close to 40,000 new regulations have been issued by the federal government but very few are ever repealed. Small businesses often bear the brunt of the regulatory onslaught, making it harder for our economy to recover and for businesses to hire. The U.S. can learn from our friends in the U.K. and Canada which have adopted successful policies to reduce the economic effect of regulations. The One In, One Out Act will force agencies like the EPA to make tough choices when considering new regulatory burdens on businesses.” Full text of the legislation can be found here. A one-pager on the legislation can be found here.
07.24.2015	McCaul Statement on Syria’s Chemical Weapons Program WASHINGTON, DC– Today Congressman Michael McCaul made the following statement in response to a report about the Assad regime's continuing chemical weapons program in Syria: McCaul: “This disturbing yet predictable assessment of the Syrian regime’s cheating on its chemical weapons agreement comes the same week the Obama administration is jamming through a dangerous deal with Assad’s patron, Iran, over its nuclear weapons program. The regime's ongoing use of chemical warfare against innocent civilians and inspectors' inability to get full access underscore a clear lesson: naive bargains with brutal dictators and terror sponsors only guarantee further death and deception. The only dismantling being achieved under President Obama's diplomatic deals is of America's credibility abroad.” ###
07.15.2015	Chairman McCaul and Chairman Royce Letter to President on Iran Agreement: The United Nations Can Wait WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, was joined by Congressman Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, in sending a letter to the President regarding the recently announced Iran nuclear agreement. In the letter, the two Chairmen urge President Obama to delay any action to lift sanctions by the U.N. Security Council until Congress has had time to fully review the agreement and take any parliamentary actions prescribed in the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 which the President signed into law this year. Simply put, the American people’s representatives should have a say before Russia and China do. The letter also states that “…it would be entirely inappropriate and divisive for your Administration to vote to lift UN-backed sanctions should Congress reject the final agreement and override a presidential veto to that effect.” A full copy of the letter can be found here. ###
07.14.2015	McCaul on Iran Agreement: "Congress Now Has a Duty to Reject This Bad Deal" AUSTIN, TX – Today following the announcement of an Iran nuclear deal Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement. McCaul: "The Obama Administration's parade of concessions to Iran over the past two years has culminated in a weak and dangerous agreement. Congress now has a duty to reject this bad deal, which “paves Iran’s path to the bomb,” as Prime Minister Netanyahu rightly observed earlier this year. We must prevent an outcome that emboldens the world’s leading state sponsor of terror and endangers America, our allies, and global security."
07.10.2015	McCaul Statement on Passage of the 21st Century Cures Act“It’s not very often that Congress passes landmark, visionary legislation that has the chance to truly improve and save lives. The 21st Century Cures Act is one of those rare bills.” WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following passage of H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, Representative Michael McCaul (TX-10) issued the following statement about the bill including two provisions which he spearheaded: “It’s not very often that Congress passes landmark, visionary legislation that has the chance to truly improve and save lives” said McCaul. “The 21st Century Cures Act is one of those rare bills. I congratulate Chairman Upton, Representative DeGette and all of the Members who have worked so tirelessly over the past year on this extraordinary undertaking. The 21st Century Cures Act will reverse the decade-long decline in much-needed federal investments in biomedical research at the National Institute of Health. It also includes two provisions I am especially proud of – one to incentivize the development of new treatments for children with rare pediatric diseases through the reauthorization of the Creating Hope Act, and another which includes key provisions of the Andrea Sloan CURE Act to expand patient access to potentially lifesaving treatments and provide more regulatory certainty for drug innovators that hold them back from participating in the FDA’s compassionate use process.” Reauthorization of the Creating Hope Act Section 2152 of the 21st Century Cures Act reauthorizes the rare pediatric diseasepriority review voucher incentive program, which was first proposed by Representative McCaul as part of the bipartisan Creating Hope Act of 2011. Under this program, biopharmaceutical companies are incentivized to develop treatments for rare diseases that are often less profitable than treatments for more common medical conditions. Specifically, companies can receive a priority review voucher if they develop novel treatments for a rare pediatric disease, such as childhood cancer and sickle cell disease, entitling the company to a priority six month review of another new drug application that would otherwise be reviewed under the FDA’s standard ten month review period. This shortened review time, which can lead to earlier market entry, is valuable to companies who can either choose to exercise the voucher on one of their own products or sell it to another company. Vouchers has been sold for as much as $245 million. Since its inception, the program has helped bring three new drugs to market for children with rare pediatric diseases, including the first-ever drug approved by the FDA to treat high-risk neuroblastoma, a particularly deadly childhood cancer. Andrea Sloan CURE Act Sections 2082 and 2083 of the 21st Century Cures Act are modeled after H.R. 909, theAndrea Sloan CURE Act, sponsored by Representative McCaul. Named after Austin resident Andrea Sloan, who passed away in 2014 while fighting for access to a potentially life-saving treatment, this bill would make important reforms to the FDA’scompassionate use process which allows patients to access experimental drugs when all other options have been exhausted. Sec. 2082 will ensure that biopharmaceutical companies have publicly accessible compassionate use policies, including information for patients about how to make a request for access. Sec. 2083 requires the FDA to finalize its May 2013 draft compassionate use guidance for industry and clarify how it interprets and uses adverse drug event data in compassionate use cases – a key regulatory gray area which discourages many companies from providing patients with access to experimental drugs when appropriate. You can watch Representative McCaul’s floor speech in favor of the bill here. ###
06.25.2015	McCaul Statement on King v. Burwell “fact remains that ObamaCare is a disaster for patients, doctors, and our economy" AUSTIN, TX – Following the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold ObamaCare subsidies in the King v. Burwell case, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement. McCaul: "I am disappointed in the court’s ruling today. While the court has once again upheld the law, the fact remains that ObamaCare is a disaster for patients, doctors and our economy. Costs continue to soar, the doctor-patient relationship has been eroded and we still haven’t seen all of the effects of this deeply flawed law. That is why a majority of Americans have continually disapproved of this law and why I have voted to repeal ObamaCare dozens of times. This ill advised decision by the court has moved health care reform and ObamaCare repeal to one of the top issues of the upcoming presidential race. The Republican party must choose as their nominee someone who will be committed to repealing and replacing this misguided law with market based, commonsense solutions that the American people deserve. It will be a stark contrast to the same old, failed policies of the Obama administration and the Democratic party."
06.25.2015	Critical Infrastructure Protection Act (CIPA) Passage Out of Homeland Security Committee is Decisive Step to Protect the Nation WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today the Committee on Homeland Security passed the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act (CIPA), important legislation to protect Americans from an electromagnetic pulse (EMP), a threat experts consider one of the most serious risks to our national security. Rep. Trent Franks along with Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, Rep. Michael McCaul, and Chairman of the Rules Committee, Rep. Pete Sessions, released the following statements: Congressman Trent Franks: "I sincerely applaud and thank Chairman McCaul and the House Committee on Homeland Security for passing the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act (CIPA) out of Committee today. The electric grid is fundamental to our modern way of life and is a vital component of nearly every other critical infrastructure in America. Reducing its vulnerability to naturally occurring or weaponized electromagnetic pulse is a matter of national security. "Most notably, CIPA directs and empowers the Department of Homeland Security to harden and protect our critical infrastructure including power production, generation, and distribution systems. I'm encouraged by this movement and expect my colleagues in the House of Representatives to take this decisive step to protect our nation when CIPA comes to the Floor for a vote." | Contact: Destiny Decker (202) 225-4576 Chairman Michael McCaul: "Experts have warned us about the threat of EMP events to our critical infrastructure. Such an event could severely disrupt all Americans’ way of life. The impact could cause serious damage to the Nations’ critical infrastructure making this vitally important to our homeland security defenses. The Critical Infrastructure Protection Act, which passed through my Committee, is a huge step forward in our resiliency and preparedness from an EMP event. I appreciate Congressman Franks’ dedication and collaboration with me to address this vital national security matter." | Contact: Susan Phalen (202) 226-8477 Chairman Pete Sessions: “Today’s passage of the Critical Infrastructure Protection Act is an important first step towards protecting our nation’s critical infrastructure. I applaud my friend Congressman Trent Franks’ hard work on this important issue and I wholeheartedly support this bill so that we can secure our electrical grid, educate the public about this potential threat, and implement effective measures to protect our nation’s critical infrastructure.”| Contact: Caroline Boothe (202) 225-2231
06.12.2015	McCaul Statement on Passage of Trade Promotion Authority AUSTIN, TX – Today following passage of Trade Promotion Authority, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement. McCaul: "I voted for Trade Promotion Authority because of the limitations it places on President Obama. The Republican led House and Senate have now laid forth 150 congressionally mandated negotiating objectives that the President must meet in his trade negotiations. We have also brought more transparency to the trade process by requiring finalized trade deals to be openly available to each and every American to read. Ronald Reagan understood that ‘free and fair trade brings growth and opportunity and creates jobs.’ He was right, trade is vital to our economy. Because of the hardworking and innovative constituents I represent, my district exported $11.5 billion worth of goods and services in 2013. This translated to 32,000 jobs supported by trade in my district. I look forward to evaluating any final trade agreements in the future and will consider its impact on Texas jobs and families.” Note: Congressman McCaul voted for Trade Promotion Authority as stated above but voted against the Trade Adjustment Authority (TAA).
06.11.2015	McCaul Statement on Passage of Department of Defense Funding Bill AUSTIN, TX – Today, following House passage of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act despite the partisan political practices of the the Democratic leaders in the House and Senate, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement. McCaul: “Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid are playing politics with our troops and our national security. By threatening a shutdown, the ‘leaders' of the Democratic party are attempting to hold a pay raise for our troops and funding the Department of Defense hostage in order to increase spending for the IRS and EPA. This type of partisan politics is unconscionable especially at a time when our country is facing grave threats from ISIS and cyber-hacking by China, and it sets a new low for the Democratic leadership in Congress." ###
06.02.2015	McCaul Calls for Halt of Iran Negotiations Until Detained Americans are Released WASHINGTON DC – Today the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously passed House Resolution 233; which expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that Iran should immediately release the three United States citizens it holds, as well as provide all known information on any United States citizens that have disappeared within its borders. Following passage, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement. McCaul: "For too long the Iranian regime has illegally detained Americans without cause. American hostages should not be placed on the sidelines, they should be a priority. I call on President Obama to halt negotiations with Iran on their nuclear program until our citizens are released and Iran has handed over all information on Americans who have disappeared within the Iranian borders. We must not bend to the will of a fanatical regime intent on destabilizing an entire region, we must bring our citizens home." ###
05.26.2015	McCaul on Ruling to Block President’s Unconstitutional Executive Amnesty AUSTIN, TX – Today following the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit decision to uphold an injunction blocking President Obama’s unilateral actions on immigration, Congressman Michael McCaul issued the following statement. McCaul: “The ruling today once again blocking the implementation of the President's unlawful actions is a victory for the constitution and the American people. Once again, the courts have upheld what President Obama himself conceded 22 times, he does not have the authority to act unilaterally and change the law. I will continue to urge President Obama to abandon his unconstitutional amnesty orders and focus on something the American people actually want — border security. ###
05.26.2015	McCaul Statement on Flooding and Severe Weather in Texas AUSTIN, TX – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement after much of Texas was impacted by severe weather over the past several days. McCaul: “I am heartbroken and devastated over the lives that have been lost, homes that have been destroyed, and the famlies effected by the severe storms that impacted much of Texas over the weekend. I want to offer my assistance in any way possible to the towns, communities, and constituents of my district that need it. I know that Texans will rally around each other and help our neighbors rebuild and recover.” ###
05.21.2015	McCaul "Music for Peace” Amendment Passes Foreign Affairs Committee AUSTIN, TX – Today, an amendment offered by Congressman Michael McCaul passed the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously during markup of H.R. 2323, the United States International Communications Reform Act of 2015. The “Music for Peace” amendment authored by Congressman McCaul authorizes the newly created U.S. International Communications Agency (USICA) to collaborate with private sector for-profit and non-profit entities to highlight programming content, including music, that promotes peace in countries facing high levels of terrorism or other forms of religious, ethnic, or political violence. "Music can promote peace in the face of terror,” said McCaul. "Following a car bombing in Baghdad, a cellist and former conductor of Iraq’s national symphony orchestra, came to the wreckage site and played his cello. Iraqis came out to this site of horror and murder to listen to one of the nation’s most renowned musicians, rather than hide from other would-be attackers. This moving story demonstrates the importance of highlighting music and other forms of programming content that promotes peace in places like Iraq which are so desperate for it. This bill will go a long way in improving U.S. international broadcasting efforts and strengthening our public diplomacy around the world." Upon passage of the amendment, Daryl P. Friedman of The Recording Academy/GRAMMY’s thanked Congressman McCaul for his efforts. “The Recording Academy applauds Chairman McCaul’s recognition of music as a powerful tool that crosses cultural boundaries, opens international lines of communication, and can promote peace around the globe,” said Friedman. "The Chairman’s amendment to H.R. 2323 affirms our belief that music is an “international language” that can foster harmony in places of conflict and healing in times of distress. We look forward to working with the Chairman and his colleagues, and to engaging music creators in contributing positively to international diplomacy efforts.” Video of Iraqi Cellist Karim Wasfi playing his cello at the wreckage site can be found here. ###
05.20.2015	McCaul Asks IRS Commissioner to Review Clinton Foundation Tax Exempt Status AUSTIN, TX – This week Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) joined 50 of his colleagues in signing a letter requesting John Koskinen, the Internal Revenue Service Commissioner, to review the tax exempt status of the Clinton Foundation. The letter, which can be found here, raises member's concerns over allegations the Clinton Foundation accepted, and did not disclose, millions of dollars of donations and facilitated private business transactions for foreign entities while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State. "Recent allegations that the Clinton Foundation failed to report millions of dollars in donations from foreign governments and facilitated private business transactions between foreign entities while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State are deeply troubling,” said McCaul. "If these allegations are true, the Clinton Foundation should lose its tax exempt status.” ###
05.18.2015	McCaul Statement on Death of Houston Police Officer AUSTIN, TX – Today, following the tragic death of Houston Police officer Richard Martin, who was killed in the line of duty early this morning, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement. McCaul: “I am deeply saddened by the tragic and untimely death of Officer Martin. The brave men and women of our police departments who protect and serve our communities place their lives on the line every time they put on their uniforms. Police officers are not only the first line of defense against crime in our cities and towns, they also play an integral role in in stopping terrorism and protecting Americans. For this, we owe them a debt of gratitude. My thoughts and prayers are with Officer Martin’s family and all of the Houston Police Department.” ###
05.15.2015	McCaul Statement on Passage of Amendment to Allow Base Commanders Authority to Authorize Concealed CarryAmendment was attached to the National Defense Authorization Act which passed the House on Friday AUSTIN, TX – Today, following passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2016, which included an amendment offered by Congressman McCaul (R-TX), Congressman Carter (R-TX), and Congressman Rigell (R-VA) which grants authority to military base commanders to allow concealed carry of firearms on military installations, either for personal defense or as a force multiple, if they deem it necessary, Congressman Michael McCaul issued the following statement. McCaul: "Texas has twice mourned the loss of our soldiers and civilians after shootings at Fort Hood just north of my district. In 2009, Nidal Hassan walked into Fort Hood’s Soldier Readiness Center, shouted Allahu Akbar, and opened fire, killing 13 and wounding 42 others in the most horrific terrorist attack on U.S. soil since 9/11. Five years later, another shooter opened fire on the base, killing four and wounding 16 others . Enough is enough. We must give our base commanders more discretion and our soldiers more protection. Thousands of my constituents in Texas already exercise this right responsibly. It is time for our service members to be allowed to do the same." Full text of the amendment can be found here. ###
05.12.2015	McCaul Signs Amicus Brief Challenging President Obama's Unconstitutional Executive Amnesty AUSTIN, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) has joined 112 Congressional colleagues in signing the amicus brief in Texas et al v United States. The amicus brief is in support of a continued injunction challenging the constitutionality of President Obama’s unilateral executive amnesty orders. The brief has been filed with the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. McCaul: “President Obama continues to ignore the constitutional restraints on the office he holds. As he knows, only Congress can make the laws that govern our country. The February ruling of the US District Court halting implementation of the President's unconstitutional actions should not be ignored. I am confident the courts will rule that the President does not have the authority to act unilaterally to change our immigration laws, something President Obama himself conceded 22 times. Instead of trying to usurp the constitution, President Obama should focus on something the American people want; securing our border.” The full amicus brief can be found here. ###
05.07.2015	McCaul Statement on Johnson & Johnson Creating Independent Panel for Compassionate Use Requests AUSTIN, TX – Today following the announcement that Johnson & Johnson will create an independent panel for compassionate use requests, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) made the following statement. McCaul: “Today’s announcement is a clear example of how Johnson & Johnson is a leader on the issue of expanded access for patients with life-threatening diseases and conditions. While Congress is still working to improve the expanded access process at the FDA, I am encouraged by this unique partnership with NYU School of Medicine’s Compassionate-Use Advisory Committee. This partnership should demonstrate to patients that companies are taking seriously the need to balance patient’s interests with the highest ethical standards. I look forward to seeing how this arrangement will develop and how it might serve as a model for other companies in the future.” Congressman McCaul is a leader in Congress on compassionate use reform. At the 2014 Childhood Cancer Summit in Washington, DC, hosted by Congressman McCaul, Johnson & Johnson’s Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Amrit Ray, spoke about compassionate use. In February, McCaul introduced the Andrea Sloan Compassionate Use Reform and Enhancement (CURE) Act. The CURE Act would make important reforms to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) expanded access ("compassionate use") process, by ensuring seriously ill patients have the right to know the compassionate use policies of pharmaceutical companies developing the most innovative treatments. ###
04.24.2015	McCaul to President Obama: Lift Ban on Crude Oil Exports to Mexico AUSTIN, TX – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), along with Congressman Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Congressman Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Congressman Sean Duffy (WI-7), and Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-3), sent a letter President Obama urging him to lift the prohibition on U.S. crude oil exports to Mexico. Doing so would afford Mexico the same trade exemption granted to Canada thirty years ago. Congressman McCaul and Congressman Castro made the following statements after sending the letter to the President. McCaul: "Last year, during the first ever trilateral meeting of lawmakers from the U.S., Mexico and Canada, I heard from both my Mexican and Canadian counterparts about the need to tear down trade barriers and improve the flow of energy across the continent. Trading crude oil freely with Mexico in the same manner that the U.S. trades with Canada is not only fair, but it will make the distribution of energy in North American more efficient. Improving energy trade ties will also benefit Texas producers by opening up a new market that is hungry for U.S. crude oil.” Castro: “Mexico is Texas’ largest trade partner, and the country’s recent energy reforms open the door for our economic ties to expand even further. Lifting these crude oil export restrictions will benefit Texas businesses and workers, boost the U.S. economy, and help North America reach its energy potential.” Full text of the letter to President Obama can be found by here. Congressman McCaul is Chairman of the U.S.-Mexico Inter-parliamentary Group that held the first trilateral meetings of American, Mexican, and Canadian lawmakers. Details on Congressman McCaul’s legislation to lift all crude oil export bans can be found here. ###
04.03.2015	McCaul Statement on the Framework for Iranian Nuclear Deal AUSTIN, TX – Today, following the announcement by President Obama on the details of the framework for an Iranian nuclear deal, Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), released the following statement. McCaul: "The Obama Administration's efforts to get a deal at any cost, will have a greater cost than the world can bear. Iranian leaders will now find a nuclear weapon dangerously within reach. Even during these recent negotiations, Iranians have continued to chant "death to America". When people show you who they are, it's important to believe them the first time. If this deal moves forward the consequences for the US and our allies in the region will be dire." ###
03.10.2015	Creating Hope Act Sponsors React to FDA Approval of Pediatric Cancer Treatment2011 Law Established Voucher Program that Enabled Development of Treatment AUSTIN, TX – Today the Food and Drug Administration announced it has approved the first pediatric cancer drug due to the voucher program that became law under the Creating Hope Act. The drug, Unituxin, developed by United Therapeutics, designed to treat neuroblastoma, is only the third third drug to receive initial FDA approval for a pediatric cancer in the last 20 years. The Creating Hope Act was signed into law in 2011, and was sponsored by Representative Michael McCaul, Representative G.K. Butterfield, and Representative Chris Van Hollen. McCaul: "The scientists and doctors who developed this drug deserve credit and recognition for this amazing achievement. Too many children suffer from neuroblastoma and for them and their families, the development of the first FDA approved treatment in decades is welcome news. I am proud that the Creating Hope Act played an important role in this process. The voucher program established by this law has once again demonstrated its value. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make this program permanent for children with all rare diseases, such as pediatric cancer and sickle cell disease. Butterfield: "I'm pleased to learn that the Creating Hope Act is fulfilling its purpose of advancing drugs for rare pediatric diseases to market," said Congressman Butterfield. "Since its enactment, less than four years ago, we've already seen two pediatric drugs receive approval by the FDA. I look forward to more drugs gaining approval and more children receiving the treatment they need.” Van Hollen: ""The Creating Hope Act was designed to spur both lifesaving cures for children and new innovations that help American companies grow and create jobs," said Congressman Van Hollen. "I'm glad a Maryland business is the latest to benefit from this program to kick-start investment in treatments and cures for children and families affected by cancer." The Creating Hope Act provides market incentives to pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell. This is the second voucher awarded under the law. The Creating Hope Act: Establishes the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers. Offers unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset. Provides greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application. ###
03.03.2015	McCaul Statement on Prime Minister Netanyahu’s Address to Congress WASHINGTON, DC – Today following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a joint meeting of Congress, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement. McCaul: "Prime Minister Netanyahu delivered a powerful speech and a compelling argument for why the Iran nuclear deal is dangerous for the national security of both Israel and the United States. The Prime Minister is correct, ISIS and Iran are competing for the crown of militant Islam, we cannot allow either to succeed in its goal. I continue to stand with Israel against what is most certainly a bad deal for the U.S., Israel, and the security of the entire Middle East region and call for President Obama to recognize the threat for what it is." ###
02.17.2015	McCaul Statement on on Federal Court Ruling Blocking President’s Immigration Executive Amnesty AUSTIN, TX – This morning, following the announcement that a U.S. federal district court has issued a preliminary injunction blocking President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty, Congressman McCaul released the following statement: McCaul: “The announcement that the US District court has ruled against the president’s unconstitutional executive amnesty orders reinforces what President Obama said 22 times - he does not have the authority to ignore the law. I applaud this ruling and urge the President to recognize that he must work with Congress to secure our border and follow the rule of law when it comes to interior enforcement. Furthermore, Senate Democrats who claim to oppose the president’s executive actions on immigration should immediately stop playing political games and let the Senate begin debate on a Department of Homeland Security funding bill.” ###
02.12.2015	McCaul Introduces Bill to Improve Access to Potentially Lifesaving Drugs for Sick PatientsThe Andrea Sloan Compassionate Use Reform and Enhancement Act WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced H.R. 909, the Andrea Sloan Compassionate Use Reform and Enhancement (CURE) Act, which would make important reforms to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) expanded access ("compassionate use") process, by ensuring seriously ill patients have the right to know the compassionate use policies of pharmaceutical companies developing the most innovative treatments. He was joined by Representative G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA), Representative Morgan Griffith (R-VA), and Representative Leonard Lance (R-NJ). The bill is named after Andrea Sloan, an Austin resident who died on New Year's Day 2014 after being denied access to a potentially lifesaving drugs to treat her seven-year battle with ovarian cancer. The FDA permits patients, on a case-by-case basis, to access treatments still in the development process and outside of the clinical trial setting when certain criteria are met. Recent high profile cases, such as Andrea Sloan and seven-year-old pediatric cancer patient Josh Hardy’s requests for access to experimental drugs, and the recent passage of “Right to Try” laws in several states, cry out for a federal response to reform and enhance the compassionate use program. In 2014, the FDA saw a 92% increase in compassionate use requests. Upon introduction of the bill, Representative McCaul said, “Across the United States, patients with life-threatening conditions are desperate for treatments that hold the potential to save and prolong their lives. In some extreme cases, experimental drugs or devices may be a patient’s only hope when FDA-approved treatments are not available and when patients are unable to enroll in a clinical trial. The Andrea Sloan CURE Act will give patients and doctors up front information about how to access experimental treatments and provide drug companies more certainty about the compassionate use program.” The Andrea Sloan CURE Act will: Ensure that pharmaceutical companies have publicly accessible compassionate use policies for drugs treating serious or life-threatening conditions; Dignify patients with an explanation if their request for compassionate request is denied; Require the Government Accountability Office to conduct a thorough analysis of the current compassionate use program, including the number of patient denials and reasons why companies reject requests; Establish a compassionate use Task Force to provide recommendations to further improve the compassionate use program; and Require the FDA to finalize its May 2013 draft compassionate use guidance for industry and clarify how it interprets and uses adverse drug event data in compassionate use cases. McCaul has been a leader on compassionate use since the passing of Andrea Sloan early 2014. He released a white paper on compassionate use in October shortly after the annual Childhood Cancer Summit that he hosted in Washington where he brought together leaders from the pharmaceutical industry and government to discuss patient access to experimental drugs. A section-by section of the bill can be found here. The Andrea Sloan CURE Act has been included in the 21st Century Cures Act Discussion Document that the Energy and Commerce Committee unveiled in January. ###
02.06.2015	McCaul Statement on Army Decision to Award Purple Hearts to Victims of Ft. Hood Terrorist Attack AUSTIN, TX – Today following the announcement that the U.S. Army will award Purple Hearts to the victims of the 2009 terrorist attack on Ft. Hood, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement: McCaul: “After years of unnecessary delays and political gamesmanship, I am glad that the United States Army has decided to award Purple Hearts to the heroes who lost their lives or were injured in the terrorist attack on Ft. Hood in 2009. I want to thank my fellow members of Congress for working together to ensure that these brave men and women received the recognition they earned. More importantly, I want to thank the victims, their families, and all of our armed services for serving their country with honor. Although nothing can ever repay them for their sacrifices, I hope that honoring them with Purple Hearts will offer a sense of recognition and appreciation on behalf of a grateful nation." In 2012, McCaul held a hearing entitled “Lessons From Fort Hood: Improving our Ability to Connect the Dots” when he chaired the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Oversight, Management, and Investigations Subcommittee. ###
02.02.2015	McCaul on President Obama’s Budget Proposal: “We know it won’t work" WASHINGTON, DC – Today following the release of President Obama’s FY 2016 budget proposal, Congressman McCaul released the following statement: McCaul: “Today the President offered more of the same failed budgetary policies we have seen since he took office. Our economy is still ailing, our national debt is over $17 trillion, and the President wants to tax and spend his way out of it. We know it won’t work. It is fitting he released his budget on Groundhog Day, if the President's liberal wish list is granted, America is sure to endure an even longer economic winter." ###
01.27.2015	McCaul Statement on Andrea Sloan Cure Act Being Included in 21st Century Cures Act Discussion Document WASHINGTON, DC – Today following the announcement that the Energy and Commerce Committee has included the the Andrea Sloan Cure Act, which Congressman McCaul authored, into its discussion document for the 21st Century Cures Act, McCaul released the following statement. McCaul:“The Energy and Commerce Committee deserves to be recognized for its extraordinary hard work in drafting a bipartisan bill to accelerate the pace of 21st century cures for patients. The committee leadership has embraced an inclusive and collaborative process the product of which will ensure the U.S. continues to lead the world in medical innovation. I am particularly grateful to the committee for including in its discussion draft the Andrea Sloan CURE Act which will give patients and doctors up front information about how to access experimental treatments, when appropriate, and provide drug companies more certainty about the FDA’s compassionate use process. View the first release of legislative ideas HERE. View a section-by-section of the discussion document HERE. View a one-pager highlighting the legislative ideas HERE. ###
01.23.2015	McCaul Sponsors No Raise For Congress Act WASHINGTON, DC– This week Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) introduced the “No Raise for Congress” Act today to end automatic pay increases for members of Congress. "American families have learned how to do more with less over the past few years,” said McCaul. “For Congress to give itself an automatic pay raise is the height of hypocrisy. Washington is addicted to spending and the best place to start cutting is by eliminating this pay raise and sending a message to the American people that their priorities are our priorities.” “Congress doesn't deserve a raise, especially when so many American families are still struggling to recover from the recession,” said Sinema. “I am proud to join a bipartisan group of my colleagues in introducing this common sense reform that saves tax dollars and puts hard-working American families first.” The No Raise for Congress Act amends current law to permanently eliminate automatic pay adjustments for Members of Congress. The current prohibition on member pay adjustments expires in September, unless Congress takes further action. ###
01.20.2015	Rep. McCaul's Response to the State of the Union Address WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight following the State of the Union Address by President Obama, Congressman McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement: McCaul: “Tonight President Obama sent one resounding message: he remains wholly out of touch with the priorities of the American people. The President ignores the threat of terrorists and foreign fighters to America both at home and abroad, while also failing to address our porous borders. He has ignored the will of the people, instead choosing to offer up the same tired and failed policy proposals we’ve seen unsuccessfully implemented for the past six years. His out of touch policies and empty rhetoric were rejected last November by voters and nothing he said tonight will change that. In the coming weeks and months, I will do all I can to ensure Congress is providing the leadership that the American people deserve."
01.14.2015	McCaul Statement on House Vote to Defund Obama Executive Amnesty WASHINGTON, DC – Today following the U.S. House of Representatives vote to defund President Obama’s executive orders on immigration Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement: McCaul: "Today, along with 235 of my colleagues, I voted to block funding to the President’s unilateral and unconstitutional executive amnesty. I supported the legislation because I agree with my constituents who are overwhelmingly opposed to the President’s actions. I hope the Senate will also pass the legislation and send a resounding message to the President that the American people and their representatives are opposed to not only his policies, but his desire to govern unilaterally." ###
01.12.2015	McCaul Joins TX Delegation in Fighting Obama Executive Amnesty WASHINGTON, DC – Sixteen members of the Texas Delegation – Congressman Brian Babin, Congressman Kevin Brady, Congressman John Carter, Congressman Blake Farenthold, Chairman Bill Flores, Chairman Jeb Hensarling, Congressman William Hurd, Congressman Sam Johnson, Chairman Michael McCaul, Congressman Randy Neugebauer, Congressman Pete Olson, Congressman Ted Poe, Congressman John Ratcliffe, Chairman Pete Sessions, Chairman Lamar Smith, and Chairman Mac Thornberry, issued the following joint statement supporting legislation to fight against President Obama’s unconstitutional executive amnesty plan. TX Delegation: “As members of the Texas delegation, we will continue to stand firmly against any action that erodes our constitutional values, degrades our nation’s rule of law, and circumvents the legislative process. Since the President announced his amnesty plan, we have been vigorously fighting against his unconstitutional actions and have been working together to find effective solutions to win this battle. “Last December House Republicans vowed to take up legislation in the second week of the 114th Congress to fight the President’s illegal executive fiat. Today the Republicans of the Texas Delegation join together in support of legislation that is scheduled to be considered by the House this week that stops the President’s amnesty plan and reflects our conservative values. This legislation would prevent the President from enforcing his executive amnesty plan by barring any funds from being used to carry out his executive actions or any other related illegal executive action that he might take in the future. While we recognize the value that legal immigrants bring to our nation and the economy, we must ensure that our laws are followed. We support this legislation because it enforces the law, secures our border, and reinforces the oath that we have taken as legislators to preserve and protect the Constitution. “As Members of Congress, we have the responsibility to effectively work within the constraints of the Constitution and the limits of the law. As members of the Texas delegation, we have the responsibility to act in the best interest of the people of Texas. This week we will uphold both of those responsibilities by preserving our nation’s rule of law, fighting for the people of Texas, and combating the President’s unconstitutional, unilateral actions.” ###
01.08.2015	McCaul Introduces Bill Lifting Ban on Crude Oil Exports WASHINGTON, DC – On Monday, the first day of the 114th Congress, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced H.R. 156, the Crude Oil Export Act, which lifts the 1970s era prohibition on the export of American crude oil and would remove the major remaining barrier that keeps the U.S. From being competitive with other oil exporting nations. The bill is cosponsored by Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX), and Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK) and was originally introduced in the 113th Congress. McCaul: "Most of America's crude oil production is taking place underneath the feet of Texans in the Eagle Ford Shale and the Permian Basin. With gas prices continuing to drop, exporting crude oil becomes even more important to the U.S. economy. Lifting the outdated ban on crude oil exports will result in more production, create new jobs at home and boost America's energy security while giving us a powerful new foreign policy tool. Ending self-imposed energy trade restrictions should be a top priority of the new Congress." The Crude Oil Export Act will: Repeal the 1970s era ban on crude oil exports; Maintain a ban on crude oil exports to any country that is subject to U.S. trade restrictions, sanctions or that the President or Congress has designated as subject to exclusion for national security reasons; Allow the President to impose a ban on the export of crude oil for up to 90 days during a period of national emergency unless Congress passes a joint resolution of disapproval. Major advancements in drilling and extraction technologies have spurred crude oil production in recent years in the Unites States. This, combined with similar advancements in the development of other domestic energy resources, such as natural gas, is allowing the U.S. to reclaim its position as a net energy exporter for the first time since 1949. Currently the U.S. is on pace to outstrip Russia and Saudi Arabia as the world's top exporter of oil and natural gas. A one pager on The Crude Oil Export Act can be found here. ###
12.17.2014	McCaul Statement on President’s Unilateral Changes to Cuba Policy AUSTIN, TX – Today following President Obama’s announcement of changes to U.S. policy toward Cuba, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, made the following statement: McCaul: "For decades, U.S. policy toward Havana has been designed to reduce hostilities and to support political freedom and human rights in Cuba. Once again, with the stroke of the pen, President Obama has upended this longstanding bipartisan policy toward one of the most oppressive regimes on the planet with very little to show in return. Like all Americans, I am glad Alan Gross is home with his family, but his release does not justify the political legitimization of the Castro regime. If the administration wants to change U.S. policy toward Cuba, it should come to Congress to seek support rather than act unilaterally.” ###
12.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced the Christmas Tree Tax Exclusion Act, which would exclude “choose and cut” Christmas tree producers, like the Elgin CHRISTmas Tree Farm in Texas’ 10th congressional district, from a new Obama Administration tax on Christmas trees. McCaul: “The Christmas tree tax should have never been implemented in the first place,” said McCaul. “Small producers, like Marc Nash of the Elgin CHRISTmas Tree Farm in my district, shouldn’t be forced to tax their customers to pay for big agribusiness producers to market their products. While I support a full repeal of this misguided tax, I hope Congress can at least agree to exempt small choose and cut producers who sell directly to the final consumer.” The Christmas tree tax was first concocted by the Obama Administration in November 2010, when the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) issued a regulation establishing a program for large-size Christmas tree producers to tax consumer for the purpose of marketing their trees. The Administration suspended the implementation of the regulation after a public backlash, only to see the regulation quietly revived in the 2014 Farm Bill. An amendment offered in the House of Representatives by Representative Jackie Walorski (R-IN), and supported by Representative McCaul, would have blocked the tax from going into effect, but it was narrowly defeated. No similar vote was taken in the Senate. ###
12.08.2014	McCaul Introduces Bill to Improve Access to Potentially Lifesaving Drugs for Sick PatientsThe Andrea Sloan CURE Act will reform Compassionate Use laws WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced H.R. 5805, the Andrea Sloan Compassionate Use Reform and Enhancement (CURE) Act, which would make important reforms to the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) expanded access ("compassionate use") program, by ensuring seriously ill patients have the right to know the compassionate use policies of pharmaceutical companies. The bill is named after Andrea Sloan, an Austin resident who died on New Year's Day after being denied access to a potentially lifesaving drugs to treat her seven-year battle with ovarian cancer. The FDA permits patients, on a case-by-case basis, to access treatments still in the development process and outside of the clinical trial setting when certain criteria are met. Recent high profile cases, such as Andrea Sloan and seven-year-old pediatric cancer patient Josh Hardy’s requests for access to experimental drugs, and the recent passage of “Right to Try” laws in several states, cry out for a federal response to reform and enhance the compassionate use program. Upon introduction of the bill, Representative McCaul said, “Across the United States, patients with life-threatening conditions are desperate for treatments that hold the potential to save and prolong their lives. In some extreme cases, experimental drugs or devices may be a patient’s only hope when FDA-approved treatments are not available and when patients are unable to enroll in a clinical trial. The Andrea Sloan CURE Act will give patients and doctors up front information about how to access experimental treatments and provide drug companies more certainty about the compassionate use program.” The Andrea Sloan CURE Act would: Ensure that pharmaceutical companies have publicly accessible compassionate use policies for drugs treating serious or life-threatening conditions; Dignify patients with an explanation if their request for compassionate request is denied; Require the Government Accountability Office to conduct a thorough analysis of the current compassionate use program, including the number of patient denials and reasons why companies reject requests; Establish a compassionate use Task Force to provide recommendations to further improve the compassionate use program; and Require the FDA to finalize its May 2013 draft compassionate use guidance for industry and clarify how it interprets and uses adverse drug event data in compassionate use cases. McCaul has been a leader on compassionate use since the passing of Andrea Sloan early this year. He released a white paper on compassionate use in October shortly after the annual Childhood Cancer Summit that he hosted in Washington where he brought together leaders from the pharmaceutical industry and government to discuss patient access to experimental drugs. The Andrea Sloan CURE Act will be introduced again early next Congress, when Representative McCaul hopes to advance this legislation through the 21st Century Cures Initiative. A section-by section of the bill can be found here. ###
12.04.2014	McCaul Statement on Congressional Agreement to Award Purple Hearts to Ft. Hood Victims WASHINGTON, DC – Following House passage of the language included in the FY15 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that awards Purple Hearts to the victims of the 2009 Ft. Hood terrorist attack, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement. McCaul: “After more than five years, I am pleased that the House and Senate have agreed on legislation honoring the victims of the terrorist attack at Ft. Hood by awarding them the purple heart. I want to personally thank Congressman John Carter and Congressman Roger Williams for leading this effort and fighting for justice for the victims and their families. It is my hope that those affected by this terrorist attack will find a sense of justice that has been denied for too long. I urge President Obama to sign this legislation honoring our heroes and their families." ###
11.20.2014	McCaul: President’s Actions Tonight Threaten Our Democracy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement on President Obama’s proposed executive actions on immigration: “The president’s decision to bypass Congress and grant amnesty to millions of unlawful immigrants is unconstitutional and a threat to our democracy. There is no doubt our immigration system is broken and needs to be fixed, but this does not mean the president has the authority to act without Congress. “History has proven that unilateral action on immigration simply perpetuates a cycle of illegal entry into this country. This was true under the 1986 amnesty and it has been true under DACA, which enticed 60,000 unaccompanied children to make the perilous journey across our border this summer. We will see a wave of illegal immigration because of the president’s actions, and in no way is the Department of Homeland Security prepared to handle such a surge. Furthermore, the president knows any immigration reforms will be ineffective as long as our border remains insecure. “As chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, I will use every tool at my disposal to stop the president’s unconstitutional actions from being implemented.” Yesterday, McCaul and Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Virginia, chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary, sent a letter to the president telling him that any executive actions on immigration would be a slap in the face to the American people and the Constitution. ###
11.14.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today following the passage of H.R. 5682, approving the Keystone XL Pipeline, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement. McCaul: "For six years the American people have heard President Obama talk about energy security and job creation, yet he has failed to deliver on either. Meanwhile, House Republicans have sent hundreds of energy and jobs bills to the President’s allies in the Democrat Senate only to see them ignored. On November 4th, the American people said they had enough of this obstruction and elected a new Senate with a majority that supports the Keystone Pipeline. President Obama and his friends in the Lame Duck Senate should finally get out of the way of jobs and energy and support Rep. Bill Cassidy’s plan to build the Keystone Pipeline, create over 40,000 jobs and reduce our dependence on Middle East oil.” ###
08.06.2014	McCaul Applauds Mexico's Pemex Reforms AUSTIN, TX – Today, following passage of landmark reforms by the Mexican Congress that will end Pemex's 75 year old monopoly on Mexico's energy industry, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement. McCaul: "I applaud my colleagues in Mexico's Congress and the leadership of President Pena Nieto for taking the extraordinary step of reforming Pemex. The reforms passed by the Congress will modernize Mexico's energy industry, improve production and ultimately contribute to economic growth in Mexico which is intregal to the United States. This gives our two nations an opportunity to deepen our energy ties and work together toward the goal of solidifying North America as a global energy superpower."
08.01.2014	McCaul Statement on House Passage of Legislation to Address Border Crisis WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement on the House passage of legislation to address the surge of unaccompanied children crossing the border, including a supplemental appropriations bill (H.R. 5230) and a bill to prevent the continuation or expansion of President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program (H.R. 5272). Chairman McCaul: “The bills passed by the House today are the best chance we have to stop this crisis in months, not years. Changing current law to ensure the swift and humane return of those who come to the United States illegally is the only way to stop the exploitation of these children and stem the flow. It is also vital that we address the immediate border security concerns created by this surge by providing additional funding and state reimbursement for the deployment of the National Guard to the border. I am pleased the House also passed a measure to end the enticement created by DACA, the Administration’s failed executive action which grants immigration benefits to individuals outside of the law, by preventing the President from using Federal funds or resources to continue or expand the program.” ###
07.21.2014	McCaul Statement on Governor Perry Deploying National Guard to Border WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following Governor Perry’s announcement of his intention to send up to 1,000 National Guardsmen to the border as a force multiplier and to act as a deterrent to further illegal crossings into the United States, Congressman McCaul (TX-10), Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement. McCaul: "The use of our National Guard as a force multiplier is long overdue, and something I have called for in my border security bill as part of a strategy to help the Border Patrol gain operational control of the Southwest Border. I applaud Governor Perry for once again doing what is within his authority to secure our borders while this president continues to abdicate his constitutional responsibility." ###
06.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Today following the arrest of two Central Texas men on charges of supporting terrorism, Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th Congressional District, and Serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement. McCaul: "I applaud the FBI and local law enforcement in the Austin Joint Terrorism Task Force for identifying and arresting these two men with suspected ties to terrorism. The growing safe haven for Islamic extremism in Syria and Iraq poses the greatest threat to the national security of Western Europe and the United States today. Americans and other Westerners with legal travel documents are going to Syria to join the fight and are being trained by jihadists to attack Western targets. This war is not over and the administration needs to face this crisis head on." ###
05.30.2014	McCaul Statement on Resignation of VA Secretary Shinseki WASHINGTON, DC – Today, following President Obama’s announcement that he has accepted the resignation of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement. McCaul: “With Secretary Shinseki’s resignation today it is my sincere hope that the Department of Veterans Affairs will move forward under new leadership by correcting the egregious mistakes it has made, holding the responsible parties accountable for their actions, and once again focusing on caring for our nation’s veterans." ###
05.30.2014	McCaul Language to Explore 'Compassionate Use' Passes Appropriations Committee Ensures Review to Make Experimental Life-Saving Cancer Treatments More Widely Available WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House Appropriations Committee approved language proposed by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) that would ensure a Government Accountability Office (GAO) review of Expanded Access (aka: Compassionate Use) of experimental drugs that hold lifesaving potential for terminally ill cancer patients who have exhausted all other treatment options. The following language was included in the FY'15 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, which passed the Appropriations Committee today: “The Committee is concerned with a lack of useful data regarding the number of Expanded Access (sometimes called compassionate use) requests made on behalf of patients that are denied by sponsors of investigational products. In order to obtain an accurate understanding of the scope of this problem, the Committee requests that GAO conduct a review of how the FDA is working with all stakeholders to accelerate the approval of innovative, save and effective medicines, and how FDA takes into account safety and efficacy data from expanded access programs.” Congressman McCaul: “I applaud the Appropriations Committee for including this language. It is a significant first step in finding ways to make treatments more widely available. This language will guarantee a non-partisan Congressional review of the difficulties patients have obtaining life-saving treatments through Compassionate Use and by including this language in statute, it increases awareness of a great medical need that is currently unmet. As the costs of drug development have increased and the time it takes to develop new treatments has grown, terminally ill patients are increasingly asking drug manufacturers for compassionate use to try potentially lifesaving experimental drugs when all other options have been exhausted. With the increase in compassionate use requests, members of Congress are acknowledging we must have more information to help us identify barriers for both the patients that need the life saving drugs and the companies developing them. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in Congress and with stakeholders on all sides of this issue on ways to improve expanded access." Congressman McCaul is founder and co-chairman of the non-partisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. ###
05.13.2014	McCaul Calls for Inspector General Investigation Into Alleged Misconduct by Veterans’ Affairs AUSTIN, TX – Today, Congressman Michael McCaul joined twenty three of his colleagues from the Texas delegation in signing a letter led by Congressman Lamar Smith to the Inspector General of Veterans’ Affairs. The letter calls for an investigation into the allegations that Veterans Affairs officials in Central Texas manipulated appointment data in order to conceal long wait times for veterans seeking an appointment. McCaul: “It is important that the Inspector General do a thorough investigation into these allegations. The Department of Veterans' Affairs has a duty to care for veterans in a timely manner and be faithful stewards of President Lincoln’s promise to 'care for those who have borne the battle.' The allegations that data was manipulated to conceal long wait times is disturbing, our veterans deserve better and the American people deserve answers.” A full copy of the letter can be found here.
05.02.2014	McCaul Statement on Formation of a Select Committee on Benghazi WASHINGTON, DC – Today following Speaker Boehner’s announcement the House will vote on forming a Select Committee to investigate the Benghazi terror attacks of September 11, 2012, Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement. McCaul: "Congress must continue to investigate what happened in Libya leading up to the attack on our special mission in Benghazi and in the aftermath. Tragically, we still do not have answers as to how it could have happened, what exactly occurred in the critical response hours, and why the White House was so quick to blame the attack on a video. We owe it to the victims, their families and the American people to find out the truth. We must have justice, and we must have accountability. It is my hope a Select Committee will produce both." ###
04.03.2014	McCaul Statement on Fort Hood Shooting WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, following the tragic shooting at Fort Hood Army Base located in Killeen, TX, Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th Congressional district and serves as Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement. McCaul: "For the second time in five years Fort Hood has been struck by tragedy. As a central Texan, this hits hard and hits home. While we do not yet know how many were tragically injured today, we do know that brave heroes ran to their aid. I join all Americans in offering my thoughts and prayers during this tragic time to those affected by this shooting, especially the victims and their families." ###
04.01.2014	McCaul Introduces Bill to Lift Ban on Texas Energy Exports WASHINGTON, DC – Today Congressman Michael McCaul introduced H.R. 4349, the Crude Oil Export Act, which lifts the 1970s era prohibition on the export of American crude oil and would remove the major remaining barrier that keeps the U.S. from being competitive with other oil exporting nations. McCaul: "Most of America's crude oil production is taking place underneath the feet of Texans in the Eagle Ford Shale and the Permian Basin. Lifting the outdated ban on crude oil exports will result in more production, create new jobs at home and boost America's energy security while providing countries like Ukraine with a dependable supply alternative to energy imports from countries like Russia." The Crude Oil Export Act will: Repeal the 1970s era ban on crude oil exports; Maintain a ban on crude oil exports to any country that is subject to U.S. trade restrictions, sanctions or that the President or Congress has designated as subject to exclusion for national security reasons; Allow the President to impose a ban on the export of crude oil for up to 90 days during a period of national emergency unless Congress passes a joint resolution of disapproval. Major advancements in drilling and extraction technologies have spurred crude oil production in recent years in the Unites States. This, combined with similar advancements in the development of other domestic energy resources, such as natural gas, is allowing the U.S. to reclaim its position as a net energy exporter for the first time since 1949. Currently the U.S. is on pace to outstrip Russia and Saudi Arabia as the world's top exporter of oil and natural gas. For more information on the Crude Oil Export Act please click here. ###
03.04.2014	McCaul Statement on President’s Budget Proposal WASHINGTON, DC - Today following the release of President Obama’s budget proposal for the coming fiscal year, Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th congressional district and serves as Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, released the following statement. McCaul: "Once again the president has failed to put forward a serious budget proposal that is reflective of the spending and debt crisis our country faces. He wants to spend another $3.9 trillion and add to the $17.4 trillion in debt we are already facing. Most importantly, during a period of international unrest and while America continues to face growing terror threats, this budget proposal makes dangerous cuts to our military, gutting our mission readiness and military forces. This budget is nothing more than a reminder the White House is intent on playing politics in an election year and it is designed to energize the president’s supporters while offering the same tired liberal wish list we’ve seen before including raising taxes another $1.8 trillion which will only hurt America’s ability to compete for jobs. This irresponsible proposal completely ignores the need for entitlement reform and spending cuts that would get America’s financial house in order and is detached from the foreign policy challenges we face in an increasingly dangerous world. I cannot and will not support this budget.” ###
02.20.2014	McCaul Statement on First Voucher Approval Under 'Creating Hope Act' to Incentivize Treatments for Rare Pediatric Diseases AUSTIN, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), founder and co-chair of the Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus, released a statement on the first voucher approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration under the Creating Hope Act, which he passed in 2012: Congressman McCaul: "The Creating Hope Act is designed to incentivize the development of new treatments for rare childhood diseases including cancer that are otherwise cost prohibitive and as a result do not exist for children who need them. Today I am proud the first voucher has been approved by the FDA, providing incentives to a drug maker to develop the first treatment for kids with rare and serious illnesses under this new law." "As more pharmaceutical companies line up to take this same approach, this news demonstrates that the Creating Hope Act is forging a viable path to produce childhood cancer treatments that would otherwise not be available. I look forward to this process yielding drugs to save the lives of children who have few treatment options at their disposal. This will in turn help provide better long-term health for those who survive rare childhood diseases but who face life-threatening and life-altering secondary conditions as a result of the harsh treatments intended for adults.” ###
02.11.2014	McCaul Votes No on Raising the Debt Ceiling WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight following his vote against raising the debt ceiling, Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th congressional district and serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement. Congressman McCaul: "Tonight I voted against giving the Obama Administration another blank check. We are a nation $17 trillion in debt but today we raised our credit limit without any additional measures to substantially limit our spending. Significant spending cuts will only be accomplished through reforms to our unsustainable entitlement programs. Families across my district and America recognize that going deeper into debt is no way to handle their finances. Apparently that lesson is lost on Congress and this administration when it comes to its ongoing spending addiction.” ###
02.10.2014	McCaul Statement on ObamaCare Employer Mandate DelayWASHINGTON, DC – Today, following the Obama administration’s unilateral decision to delay the employer mandate portion of ObamaCare for another year, Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th congressional district and serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement.McCaul: "Instead of a political maneuver to ease the pain of those who work for small businesses until after the midterm elections, the president should recognize the failures of ObamaCare and permanently delay the law for all Americans. Once again this president has blatantly sidestepped the legislative branch of government and taken the law into his own hands, picking and choosing who will suffer from the consequences of his healthcare law.”###
02.07.2014	McCaul Releases Statement on New Benghazi ReportWASHINGTON, DC – Today, following the House Foreign Affairs Committee release of a new report on the lack of State Deparment Accountability for the Benghazi attacks, Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th Congressional district and serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement.McCaul: “The Foreign Affairs Committee's report is yet more evidence of the failures of the Administration to make sound security judgments and reveals a flawed investigation by the Accountability Review Board, (ARB) which actually held no one accountable and lacked any true independence. Seventeen months after the Benghazi terrorist attack, no one in the State Department has been meaningfully disciplined for failures which resulted in a woefully inadequate security posture at our Special Mission Compound. Nor have the terrorists who carried out the attack been brought to justice.""I am especially troubled by the scathing review of Under Secretary Patrick Kennedy's handling of security decisions before September 11, 2012. Despite mounting attacks on Western targets and numerous cables from key individuals alerting him to our inability to withstand a coordinated attack, Under Secretary Kennedy - who not only escaped any warranted scrutiny by the ARB, but even had a role in selecting the ARB's members- actually scaled back critical security resources, endangering our diplomats. These findings are corroborated by the Senate Intelligence Committee report.""There must be justice for the victims, and Secretary Kerry should heed the advice of today's report and hold Under Secretary Kennedy accountable for his disastrous decisions. If he will not, Congress will.”The full report can be found HERE.###
02.06.2014	McCaul Cosponsors Bipartisan Bill to Fortify Chemical Plant SecurityWASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) cosponsored the “Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) Authorization and Accountability Act of 2014. The bill authorizes the CFATS program and improves security standards for high-risk chemical facilities, with the ultimate goal of ensuring terrorists cannot access large quantities of chemicals that could be used as weapons of mass destruction. Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies Subcommittee Chairman Patrick Meehan (R-PA) authored the legislation.During the two year authorization period, H.R. 4007 requires vital chemical security goals including:Improves the certification process by allowing automatic re-approval of Alternative Site Security Plans and permitting third-party audits and inspections with the approval of the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).Seeks to ensure identification and proper security inspection of all off-the-grid "outlier" facilities by requiring DHS to coordinate federal agencies that oversee safety of facilities, as well as with state and local entities, in addition to industry associations. The Secretary of DHS must confirm progress has been made in these areas within 18 months.Seeks to eliminate the backlog of security inspections by allowing automatic re-approval of Alternative Site Security Plans and permitting third-party audits and inspections Ensures greater security oversight by requiring the Secretary of DHS to report back to Congress to certify improvements and requiring the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct a two-year assessment with reports to Congress every six monthsChairman McCaul: “The importance of our nation’s chemical infrastructure security cannot be overstated – it is a national, state and local concern. Last year, the tragic explosion at the West, Texas fertilizer plant highlighted the problem of the thousands of chemical facilities that are off the grid and unknown to security inspectors. Chemical facilities that are not run with the utmost care are an easy target for those who want to exploit lax security and CFATS has the vital mission to ensure these facilities are secure. This bill will authorize CFATS in the near term in order to provide the sense of stability industry needs, while requiring program improvements including coordinating with state and local entities in addition to industry groups to identify off-the-grid chemical facilities.”Full text of H.R. 4007 is available HERE. ###
01.30.2014	Congressman McCaul Responds to State of the Union WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight following President Obama’s State of the Union address, Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th Congressional district and serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security issued the following statement.McCaul: “What we heard tonight from the president was more of the same failed policies that have done nothing to jump start the economy nor create jobs. I am disappointed that after five years as president, he does not recognize the pressing matters facing this country. The speech was most notable for what it didn’t include. President Obama neglected to tell the American people how he plans to bring the unemployment rate down or reform out of control entitlement programs. He failed to address the fatal flaws in ObamaCare or his plans to reduce our $17 trillion in debt. The president mentioned nothing about how he intends to secure the border, instead focusing on his desire to offer amnesty for the millions of illegal immigrants currently living here.”"Instead of working with the House of Representatives to achieve legislation that benefits the American people, the president threatened to go it alone and will be issuing yet another executive order, this one to increase wages for federal contractors. After five years in office he has yet to develop a comprehensive energy policy that prioritizes our domestic energy production. This jeopardizes our national security and with gas prices over $3.25 a gallon, it takes money out of the pockets of hard working Americans. I’ll continue to work with my Republican colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass pro-growth, pro-security legislation and offer leadership on the difficult challenges facing this nation. I hope the president will join us.”###
01.15.2014	McCaul Statement on Passage of FY 2014 Appropriations BillWASHINGTON, DC - Following passage of the 2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act, HR 3547, Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10), who serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security released the following statement.McCaul: “ "Today I voted for the discretionary spending bill for 2014 that reduces overall spending by $21.4 billion compared to the sequester spending level from last year. This funding bill continues to turn the tide toward reducing our debt, which began when Republicans took control of the House four years ago. Since 2010, Republicans have reduced discretionary spending by $165 billion, and I will continue to push for reforms to our entitlement programs where the greatest savings potential exists. In addition to reduced spending, I supported this legislation because it also exempts medically retired personnel and survivor benefit plan recipients from having their cost of living adjustments temporarily reduced and most importantly, this legislation provides relief from the sequester cuts for the Department of Defense while also giving a pay raise for our troops. The relief from the sequester cuts will allow us to maintain a strong national security apparatus and and it ensures our military readiness will be preserved. This legislation also provides for the largest Customs and Border Protection (CBP) operational force to date. The 21,370 Border Patrol agents and 24,800 CBP officers along with the 34,000 detention beds this bill funds will be an integral part of securing our border with Mexico. A fully funded E-Verify program will also help companies ensure their employees are legally allowed to work in the U.S. Finally, passage of this bill ensures that ObamaCare spending will be frozen at sequester levels while we continue efforts to repeal and replace it, and that $1 billion will be removed from the ObamaCare slush fund."###
01.15.2014	Chairman McCaul Releases Statement on Rewards For Justice for Benghazi Terror SuspectsWASHINGTON, DC- Today Congressman Michael McCaul, who represents Texas’ 10th Congressional district and serves as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, released the following statement regarding the State Department’s Rewards for Justice program for the Benghazi terror suspects.Chairman McCaul: "Sixteen months after the attack on Benghazi, the State Department has finally posted publicly a Reward for Justice for the terrorists who killed our ambassador and three other Americans. While the State Department claims it first offered the reward one year ago, the fact it took public pressure and a formal congressional inquiry for the reward to be publicized is consistent with this administration's efforts to downplay the growing threat to Americans by terrorists driven by a radical ideology. Ultimately we cannot defeat an enemy we are unwilling to acknowledge.” ###
12.10.2013	Chairman McCaul Statement on Senate Announcement Against Further Iran Sanctions WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement on the Senate announcement that it will not pursue further sanctions against Iran:Chairman McCaul: “I am deeply disappointed with the decision by the Senate Banking Committee to not pass further economic sanctions against Iran. Earlier this year the House passed, with 400 votes, the “Nuclear Prevention Act” that was aimed at increasing economic pressure on Tehran. I urge Majority Leader Reid, who just last month announced his commitment towards moving tougher sanctions through the Senate, to bring the “Nuclear Prevention Act” to a vote. Tough sanctions brought Iran to the negotiating table. It is imperative to sustain this pressure to maintain our leverage and ensure Iran is free of nuclear weapons."On November 14, Congressman McCaul sent a bipartisan letter with more than 60 signatures urging Senators Reid and McConnell to take up legislation that would tighten sanctions on Iran's energy and financial sectors. # # #
12.10.2013	December 10, 2013 Kerry Tells McCaul “Iran’s centrifuges may never stop spinning"WASHINGTON, DC – Today U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) questioned Secretary Kerry about the proposed Iranian nuclear deal during a Foreign Affairs Committee hearing. During the exchange, Congressman McCaul pressed Secretary Kerry on whether the administration would continue to leverage the current sanctions in place during negotiations in order to ensure Iran would stop enriching uranium. Click Here To Watch 02:32 - Chairman McCaul: "Mr. Secretary, are you willing at the end of the 6 months, in the final deal to say 'look we're willing to lift the sanctions when you stop enriching uranium'?"02:58 - Secretary Kerry: "If there are less than 1,000 or 500 or whatever they are, they may never stop spinning them but they are very limited in what they're gonna be able to do."04:31 - Chairman McCaul: "I think you would have more confidence from Israel and I think members of Congress if you came back in 6 months and said they can have a peaceful program but not enriching uranium inside Iran. And that can be done by providing that enriched uranium to them outside of Iran. I would urge you to pursue that." 05:03 - Secretary Kerry: "That deal was on the table a number of years ago but that deal, I'm afraid, has probably been lost."###
11.22.2013	Representatives McCaul, Roskam and Meng Applaud Senate Move Towards Tougher Iran SanctionsWashington, DC – Today Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) announced he was committed to moving ahead with a tougher Iran sanctions bill after the Thanksgiving recess. The announcement comes on the heels of last week’s bipartisan letter led by House Homeland Security Committee Chairman and Foreign Affairs Committee member Michael McCaul (R-TX), Foreign Affairs Committee member Brad Sherman (D-CA), Chief Deputy GOP Whip Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Foreign Affairs Committee member Grace Meng (D-NY) – who were joined by 59 members of the House – urging Senator Reid and Senator McConnell (R-KY) to take up legislation that would tighten sanctions on Iran’s energy and financial sectors. McCaul, Roskam and Meng said: “We are pleased with today’s announcement by Senator Reid that he will allow the Senate to consider additional sanctions against the Iranian regime. Only by sustaining pressure on Tehran through these sanctions will the United States be able to maintain its leverage on the Iranian government and ensure that Iran remains free of nuclear weapons. We applaud Senator Reid’s decision and encourage all Senators to join us in our support of tighter sanctions on the government of Iran.” ###
11.19.2013	McCaul, Wolf Demand State Dept Explanation for Benghazi 'Silent' RewardWASHINGTON, D.C. - House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA) have requested an explanation as to why a Reward For Justice the State Department now says it offered to help capture the Benghazi terrorists has gone unacknowledged and unpublicized for nearly a year. The Department revealed the existence of a $10 million RFJ related to the 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. Special Mission in Benghazi in a letter to Chairman McCaul November 15 – eleven months after the Department says it was offered, and after the Department evaded press questions about its existence. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry on Tuesday, Chairman McCaul and Congressman Wolf are seeking all records pertaining to the authorization of the Benghazi RFJ, as well as explanations of how the Department is utilizing the reward, and why the reward was not authorized until four months after the terrorist attack occurred. Text of today's letter sent to Secretary Kerry is below and a signed copy can be found here. The Department's Nov. 15 letter to Chairman McCaul revealing the existence of the reward can be found here. BEGIN LETTER TEXT:Dear Secretary Kerry,On October 30, 2013, we and 82 other members of the House of Representatives wrote to ask why the Department of State had not used the Rewards for Justice (RFJ) program to obtain information leading to the apprehension of the perpetrators of the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi. At that time, the Department did not appear to have authorized a RFJ and, in the face of multiple press inquiries, continued to publicly deny the need for one. In light of this situation, the Department’s recent response to our letter raises a number of additional questions about the use of the RFJ, an important counter terrorism program enacted by Congress. In a letter on November 15, the Department disclosed that that RFJ has had an “active reward offer of up to $10 million for information leading to the arrest or conviction of any individual involved” in the attack since then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton approved it in January. The Department strongly implied, however, that the Administration had decided not to publicize the award in the United States or on the RFJ website in order to avoid “adversely affect[ing] efforts to bring to justice those responsible for the attack.” While the Department now says that it has made an RFJ reward available, it is not clear to us how effective the offer can be if it is not publicized or promoted. According to the letter, the Department has a number of “ways” other than the RFJ website to advertise the reward offer, but we have not seen any indication of such efforts. Further, we understand that deliberations about how to use the RFJ program might be sensitive, but it is not clear to us why Department officials were unable to say that an RFJ reward offer had been made available months earlier.To help us better understand the Department’s decision not to publicize and promote the reward, we are asking for answers to the following questions: On what date did the interagency process recommend the $10 million reward offer? On what date in January did then-Secretary Clinton approve it and can you provide this documentation?Why were Department officials unable to say publicly until now that a $10 million RFJ reward offer had been made available in January?Does the Administration believe in this case that additional publicity would prejudice the investigation or the effort to bring to justice those responsible for the attack? If so, why?If it is not promoting the reward offer in the United States or on the RFJ website, what is the Department doing to publicize or promote the reward offer? When did this effort begin? Are other U.S. government agencies or other partner organizations involved?Following promises to keep the Congress informed of its efforts to bring to justice the perpetrators of the attack, why did the Administration not inform relevant committees of this use of the RFJ program?Last week, Members of Congress requested information on the Department’s correspondence and memoranda relating to decisions about whether to use the RJF program in this case. In light of this new information, we are now requesting all records pertaining to the authorization of this reward and how it has been used by the Department to elicit information about the terrorists responsible over the last eleven months, including any examples of advertising or publicity. Please provide the requested information as soon as possible, but no later than 5:00 p.m. on December 2, 2013. During testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee in April you said, “now that I am the Secretary and I am responsible to you and the Congress, I canpromise you that if you're not getting something that you have evidence of or you think you ought to be getting, we'll work with you.” As such, we look forward to your prompt response to this letter. Sincerely, Michael T. McCaul Frank Wolf
11.14.2013	63 Bipartisan House Members seek Iran sanctions vote in Senate Democrats and Republicans urge Senate leaders to tighten sanctions against the Islamic Republic WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today a bipartisan coalition of House lawmakers launched an effort aimed at getting the Senate to increase sanctions on Iran.House Homeland Security Committee Chairman and Foreign Affairs Committee member Michael McCaul (R-TX), Foreign Affairs Committee member Brad Sherman (D-CA), Chief Deputy GOP Whip Peter Roskam (R-IL), and Foreign Affairs Committee member Grace Meng (D-NY) – joined by 59 members of the House – sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Republican Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) urging them to take up legislation that would tighten sanctions on Iran’s energy and financial sectors. The measure, designed to force Iran to abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons, passed the House in July by a vote of 400-20. But the bill has stalled in the Senate.“As negotiations in Geneva are underway, we feel it is important to keep the pressure on Iran to maximize U.S. leverage,” said the House lawmakers. “Indeed, it is because of tough U.S. sanctions against Iran that Tehran has come to the negotiating table. Security in the Middle East and around the world depends on strong U.S. leadership against a nuclear Iran.”Text of the letter is below. A pdf of the signed letter, with all signatories, can be found here. November 14, 2013Dear Majority Leader Reid and Republican Leader McConnell: We urge you and your colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly to continue consideration of rigorous Iran sanctions legislation. We believe that as the United States negotiates with the P5+1 group and Tehran, it is critical to maximize U.S. leverage against the Iranian regime. Thepossibility of tighter sanctions will enhance our leverage in the nuclear standoff between the Iran’s Supreme Leader and the international community. Despite Hassan Rouhani’s attempt to portray Iran’s government in a new light, the objective of the Iranian regime remains the same: the pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability. The House has already passed legislation with the support of 400 bipartisan Representatives to increase economic pressure on the Iranian regime as it develops its nuclear weapons program. For more than three months thislegislation, the Nuclear Iran Prevention Act, has been pending in the Senate. Meanwhile, the Iranian government presses forward and each day the world becomes less safe. While recent assessments of the progress of Iran’s nuclear program vary—with some estimating that Iran is only weeks away from producing weapons-grade uranium—what is clear is that time is running short. Protractednegotiations may give Iran more time to spin its centrifuges, while the threat of enhanced sanctions holds the promise of compelling Iran to give up its ambitions. While we support diplomatic efforts toward an Iran free of nuclear weapons and free of nuclear weapons breakout capability, the sanctions pressure must be maintained. Every day, existing sanctions may be weakened as Iran finds loopholes and business partners willing to evade existing sanctions. Even Hassan Rouhani, the country’s new president, bragged in 2006 that Iran had deceived European negotiators into talks while it continued to develop its nuclear program. We should ensure that tougher penalties be availableshould Tehran be found to be using the negotiations for stalling tactics.The deliberative process in Congress is lengthy, and many steps remain before legislation on Iran would be sent to the President. We believe, therefore, that the Senate can continue the work necessary to develop sanctions legislation without fear of short-circuiting diplomacy. Sincerely, Michael T. McCaul Brad ShermanPeter J. Roskam Grace MengIleana Ros-Lehtinen Michael MichaudPaul Ryan Colleen HanabusaTed Poe Gene GreenPete Sessions Brian HigginsPeter King Henry CuellarDaniel Lipinski Juan VargasLynn Jenkins Steve ScaliseAdam Kinzinger Jeff MillerJeff Duncan George HoldingTrey Radel Ron DeSantisMike Kelly Aaron SchockSteve Stockman Susan BrooksTom Price, M.D. Kevin BradyBill Flores Blake FarentholdRandy Weber Leonard LanceVern Buchanan Kerry BentivolioKevin Yoder Michele BachmannScott Perry Richard HudsonMario Diaz-Balart Chris GibsonBilly Long Andy BarrRodney Davis Chris CollinsDavid P. Joyce Steve StiversBrad Wenstrup Trent FranksRodney Frelinghuysen Lynn WestmorelandBrad Schneider Robert Latta Steve Pearce Jim GerlachGus Bilirakis Doug LambornPatrick McHenry Doug LaMalfa Jack Kingston Paul C. Broun, M.D.Roger Williams Cc: Hon. Tim Johnson, Chairman, Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Development Hon. Mike Crapo, Chairman, Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Development Hon. Robert Menendez, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations Hon. Bob Corker, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
11.08.2013	Today Congressman McCaul, who serves as Chairman of the House Committe on Homeland Security, released the following statement with regards to the Iran nuclear talks:“The United States must remain firm against Iran and should not lift any sanctions until the the world can verify that the Ayatollah has fully dismanteld his country’s nuclear weapons program. I also urge the U.S. Senate to keep the pressure on Iran and pass new sanctions to enhance our leverage with Tehran. Indeed, it is because of tough U.S. sanctions that Iran has come to the negotiating table in the first place."
11.05.2013	Chairman McCaul Releases Statement on 4th Anniversary of Ft. Hood Terrorist AttackAustin, TX – "Four years ago today America's war against a radical ideology once again came to our shores. Today we remember the 13 killed during the terrorist attack on Fort Hood and we continue to fight for the proper treatment of their families and the 32 men and women who were wounded when Nidal Hasan opened fire in an admitted act of jihad. I urge passage of legislation which would properly designate this attack as an act of terrorism, award purple hearts to soldiers killed or wounded during the attack, and finally provide combat benefits to the brave men and women who were gunned down that fateful day. The Honoring the Fort Hood Heroes Act would accomplish this. Defending America's freedoms knows no boundaries and we should never again treat soldiers wounded or killed in terrorist attacks at home any differently than those wounded or killed abroad."
10.30.2013	84 House Members Sign McCaul Letter to Secretary Kerry Asking Why Reward is Not Offered for Benghazi Terrorists WASHINGTON, DC – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry inquiring as to why the Department of State failed to use its Rewards for Justice Program to help apprehend the terrorists who carried out the attack in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. The letter has 84 cosigners including the chairmen of the Foreign Affairs and Armed Services Committees.The Rewards for Justice Program,which began in 1984, has paid more than $125 million to more than 80 people who have provided actionable information that put terrorists behind bars or prevented acts of terrorism. The program played a significant role in the arrest of international terrorist Ramzi Yousef, convicted in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, and Saddam Hussein’s sons, Uday and Qusay. Earlier this year the President signed into law an expansion of the program due to its success. “It is hard to understand why the State Department, which describes the Rewards for Justice Program as one of the most valuable assets the government has in fighting terrorism, has failed to use it to help apprehend the terrorists who committed this act,” the letter states. “If catching these terrorists truly is a top priority for the State Department then Secretary Kerry will act immediately and begin using this program today.”The letter and signatures are located here and text of the letter is provided below: October 30, 2013 The Honorable John KerrySecretary of StateU.S. Department of State2201 C Street, NWWashington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Kerry: It has been more than a year since the terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, which resulted in the death of four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens. To date, no terrorist has been captured or held accountable for the heinous attack on innocent lives that fateful day.President Obama has repeatedly vowed that his administration’s “biggest priority” is to bring these attackers to justice. We are therefore deeply troubled to learn that your department has failed to make available a Reward for Justice for the perpetrators of the Benghazi terrorist attack, in spite of the fact that the State Department’s own website describes the Rewards for Justice program as “one of the most valuable assets the U.S. Government has in the fight against international terrorism.”As you know, under the Rewards for Justice program, the Secretary of State may offer rewards for information that leads to the arrest or conviction of anyone who plans, commits, or attempts international terrorist acts against U.S. persons or property, that prevents such acts from occurring in the first place, that leads to the location of a key terrorist leader, or that disrupts terrorism financing.According to your Department, since the inception of the Rewards for Justice program in 1984, the United States has paid more than $125 million to over 80 people who provided credible information that put terrorists behind bars or prevented acts of international terrorism worldwide. The program also played a significant role in the arrest of international terrorist Ramzi Yousef, who was convicted in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center.We fail to understand how such an important counterterrorism tool could not be used by the administration, when you and the President claim that bringing the assailants to justice is such a high priority. Please explain to us why one of the most valuable assets the U.S. government has in the fight against international terrorism will not help to bring justice the victims of the Benghazi attack, as you have so determined. If the Rewards for Justice program is somehow inadequate and needs reform, we respectfully request that you provide us with your thoughts about how to improve this program so that it may once again be used for its intended purpose. We look forward to your response to this letter. Sincerely, # # #
10.17.2013	Congressman Michael McCaul Releases Statement on His Vote TonightWASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement after his vote on H.R. 2775, the vehicle for the Senate’s proposed compromise. Congressman McCaul: “This bill ignores the catastrophic defects inherent in Obamacare, does nothing to reform our unsustainable entitlement programs or Washington’s out of control spending. This bill misses the point. We are $17 trillion in debt and instead of paying off and cutting up the maxed out credit card, we’re increasing the limit. I could not accept this bill and the American people shouldn’t either.” “Over the last three years I have voted 46 times to repeal, defund, delay or dismantle this monstrosity of a law. We have been successful in repealing the onerous 1099 tax reporting requirements and passed over half a dozen bills that have stopped more than $37 billion in tax revenue from being funneled into the law. I continue to stand with the American people who do not want this law and want to be free from its damaging economic and healthcare consequences.”“What the House should have passed today is a package containing entitlement reforms, spending cuts, and a repeal of the medical device tax. Without wholesale changes to the way we approach Social Security, Medicare and Obamacare, we will never dig our way out from under this mountain of debt. Over the next few months I hope the president will actually negotiate with Republicans in the House instead of feigning engagement so we can address the true drivers of our debt and deficit.”
09.26.2013	McCaul to Introduce Amendment to Stop Obamacare Exemption for CongressWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) will offer an amendment to the FY2014 Continuing Resolution that would ensure no federally elected officials are exempt from provisions of Obamacare. Rep. McCaul’s amendment will require the President, Vice President, Cabinet Secretaries and all political appointees, as well as members of Congress and their staff, to be enrolled in health insurance exchanges just like millions of other Americans. McCaul’s amendment is identical to one offered in the Senate by Sen. David Vitter (R-LA). “My number one objective continues to be to defund or delay the implementation of Obamacare. But as long as any piece of this law is standing, it needs to apply to all Americans equally and that includes members of Congress and our staff,” Rep. McCaul said. “It is the height of hypocrisy and arrogance for the President to pick and choose who is subjected to this damaging law and who’s not.”On August 8 the Office of Personnel Management, which operates health plans for federalemployees, issued a proposed rule that carved out an Obamacare exemption for members of Congress and their staff to continue receiving more generous healthcare subsidies than would exist under the law.Further, Obamacare in its present form does not address and thereby exempts the Executive Branch including the President, Vice President, White House staff and cabinet secretaries, from any legal requirement to enroll in insurance exchanges.
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding the anniversary of the terrorist attacks on 9/11.Chairman McCaul: “Twelve years ago today, nearly 3,000 innocent Americans were killed by al Qaeda terrorists in New York City, at the Pentagon, and in Pennsylvania. Amidst tragedy, we witnessed incredible heroism, from the passengers on Flight 93 to the first responders who rushed into the chaos. On the morning of 9/11, our nation was forever changed, and twelve years later we remember the victims, their families and the perseverance that this day now represents.“Today, we also remember the loss of four brave Americans who were killed in Benghazi. This violent attack, and those in Fort Hood, Boston, and Little Rock, painfully demonstrate that the threat of terrorism persists both at home and abroad. That’s why every day, we must continue to improve our counterterrorism efforts, we must call terrorism what it is, and we must use every tool at our disposal to fight it.“I want to commend the men and women who have fought tirelessly to defeat terrorism since 9/11, and those who are fighting still today. We have lost many Americans on battlefields overseas so that this threat does not again reach our shores, and our heroes’ sacrifices are constantly in our hearts and minds. Today, and every day, we remain indebted to their service, and grateful for their courage.”###
09.10.2013	Chairman McCaul: For two years, Americans have known that a brutal war is being waged in Syria. The atrocities witnessed almost a month ago shocked the world – and have demanded tough choices from the United States. However, horrific acts should not spur unwise reactions, and we must thoroughly examine the realities of military intervention in this civil war.Today we gather to examine both the Assad regime and the opposition forces that are caught in a bloody civil war. Specifically, we will look at what role America might play in this deadly conflict and what a military strike against Syria could mean for our national and homeland security.Yesterday, Syrian President Assad said the U.S. should 'expect everything' in response to military strikes in Syria, and last week, the U.S. intercepted an order from Iran to militants in Iraq to attack the U.S. Embassy in Iraq and other American interests. On the same day, the FBI warned that the possibility of U.S. military action could escalate cyber attacks by pro-Syrian or other aligned cyber actors.Ultimately, the United States must weigh the ripple effects of its actions. Many Members of Congress have made the point that America’s credibility is on the line, while others have maintained that the Administration’s wavering response to Assad’s brutal tactics over the past year cannot be fixed with an “unbelievably small” military action, as Secretary Kerry described the strikes yesterday.What America must determine is what its support for either side means, and the consequences for the United States. An “unbelievably small” intervention, as described by the Secretary, could elicit an unbelievably damaging chain of events for the U.S.Make no mistake, punishing Assad is a noble mission. Based on the briefings we have received, it is conclusive that he used chemical weapons against his own people. But damaging the Regime’s command and control posts will have the effect of helping the Rebels. The Assad Regime’s decades of repression have undoubtedly wrought this revolution, but the moderate resistance has been infiltrated with some of the fiercest Islamist fighters in the world.Our country strongly condemns the use of chemical weapons. They are some of the most egregious methods of warfare known to mankind. The Assad Regime has used them for many months, and has killed many innocent people. American’s have great compassion for the victims, however as we look at the Syrian crisis, we must be realistic and take into account the fact that the resistance movement is now dominated - in some regions - by a host of Islamist extremist factions such as al Nusra, an al Qaeda affiliate.While the Administration contends that we can support the rebels, and differentiate between the moderate and extremist wings, the reality is that they are now working together. Any U.S. military strikes against the Assad Regime will also benefit the extremists fighting him who will undoubtedly use Assad’s weapons against American allies and interests and possibly even our homeland if given the chance.This is all put in unique focus as we observe this week both the anniversaries of the attacks in Benghazi, and those on September 11, 2001. Al Qaeda perpetrated both attacks, and there is serious concern that if Assad falls, the extremist wings of the rebel movement will fill the vacuum and take over Assad’s arsenal of chemical weapons. Sadly, in places like Libya and Egypt, we have seen that dictators are rarely replaced by moderates.This fact is why my main concern has been, and remains, the security of Assad’s chemical weapon stockpiles. We have known of his growing arsenal for decades – and the President’s strike plan will not secure them. Securing these weapons will take an international coalition, and will ensure that they can neither be used by Assad or the extremist elements of the rebel forces.Since the strikes will not accomplish this goal and could draw our country in to a prolonged conflict, I remain concerned about the President’s widely telegraphed plan.Today, I hope we can discuss the ripple effects of our action or inaction in the Syrian conflict, and I appreciate the witnesses for sharing their expertise. After years of indecision, the President has sent this decision to Congress, and our deliberation will help shape the way forward. ###
09.04.2013	Chairman McCaul's Question: "Next week we commemorate the twelfth anniversary of 9/11. It was al Qaeda that hit the World Trade Center. It was al Qaeda that hit the Pentagon down the street from here. Al Qaeda is the enemy, and before 9/11 al Qaeda was the enemy. As Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, I want to make sure that never happens again, and I know you share that as well. I think what gives Congress great pause, and the American people great pause, is there's no good outcome here. They don't see a good side versus a bad side. They see Assad as a bad actor who's used chemical weapons. There's no question about that. But then who is the other side? Who are the rebel forces? "Every time I get briefed on this it gets worse and worse because the majority now of these rebel forces, and I say majority now, are radical Islamists pouring in from all over the world to come to Syria for the fight, and my concern is any strike against this regime, as bad as it is, will empower these radical Islamists, these extremists. And we've seen this movie before. "We've seen Afghanistan, we've seen what happened in Egypt, we saw what happened in Libya. We saw what the Arab spring brought us and it's not good. They've filled the vacuum. So my greatest concern when we look at Syria is who's going to fill the vacuum when the Assad regime falls, which we know that it will. Who is going to fill that vacuum? "Are the rebel forces, the extremists, going to take over not only the government but these weapons? Because they are the ones most likely to use these weapons against Americans in the United States. Those images of children in Damascus are horrific. I do not want to see those images in the United States. I have these concerns and I want to hear from both secretaries and the general as to whether you share these concerns and what you are doing to stop that outcome, because that is the absolute worst scenario that can happen." Secretary Hagel's Response: "This is an imperfect situation. There are no good options here. This is complicated. There's no clarity. Every point you've made - the complications of the various terrorist groups - which we have noted, are there, they're in play, this is a specifically difficult part of us trying to sort out who we would support, how we would support them. So, I don't question that."# # # Click To Watch
09.03.2013	The House Foreign Affairs Committee, of which Congressman McCaul is a senior member, will convene a hearing to discuss the Obama Administration’s response to the crisis in Syria, including the President’s request for an Authorization for Use of Military Force. Congressman McCaul will be questioning Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Secretary of State John Kerry on the administration's understanding of the situation in Syria. WHAT: Hearing: “Syria: Weighing the Obama Administration’s Response”WHEN: Wednesday, September 4 - 12pm ET/11am CTWHERE: 2172 Rayburn House Office BuildingWITNESSES:Secretary John KerryU.S. Department of StateSecretary Chuck Hagel*U.S. Department of DefenseWatch the Hearing Live
08.28.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement on Nidal Hasan being sentenced to death for the Fort Hood shooting rampage.Chairman McCaul: “Today the jury gave Nidal Hasan the correct sentence and I hope that it brings some closure to those whose lives were forever changed by his horrific attack. While we cannot change the past, we can send a strong message to those who seek to carry out jihad in this country that we will seek the ultimate penalty.“Hasan yelled ‘Allahu Akbar’ as he attacked Americans and claimed his rampage was in defense of the Taliban. His attack was an act of terrorism, not simply workplace violence, and we must continue to pursue justice for those wounded and the families of those killed by not only seeing this sentence carried out, but also by ensuring they receive the full benefits of those who are the victims of a terrorist attack on our homeland.”###
08.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement on Maj. Nidal Hasan being found guilty on all charges in the 2009 Fort Hood shooting rampage.Chairman McCaul: “Today's verdict, while an important step towards justice, is overshadowed by the fact that the charges against Nidal Hasan did not fit his crime. He committed a horrific terrorist attack against this country and our military in the name of the Taliban and al Qaeda, and he sought to continue their mission on our homeland.“The Administration's refusal to call this attack what it is, and instead labeling it 'workplace violence,' denies maximum compensation to the victims and does not do justice to those who were killed that day and those who continue to suffer because of Hasan's rampage. I continue to support getting the victims of the Ft. Hood attack the benefits they deserve, and I continue to urge the Administration to honestly address the real threats against this country.”###
08.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) announced today he is drafting a resolution of disapproval of the administration's efforts to give members of Congress and their staff a special exemption from Obamacare.“I strongly oppose ObamaCare and have fought tirelessly to defund, repeal and delay its implementation,” said Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10). “However, it is the height of hypocrisy for Congress to be exempt from a bad law that applies to everyone except Congress. Instead of exempting the political class from a healthcare law that drives up premiums, puts government between patients and their doctors and erodes thequality of care, the President should exempt all Americans from his failed policies and work with House Republicans to repeal and replace this law."The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) announced today that it has proposed a rule which will allow members of Congress to circumvent the President’s healthcare law and continue to receive healthcare premium subsidies in contravention of the law.Currently, federal employees receive health coverage through the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP), which is administered by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). The FEHBP operates as an employer defined-contribution plan, meaning that the employee picks the coverage they prefer from a menu of competing insurance policies and their employer contributes an amount toward the premium. In 2009, during debate over the new healthcare law, legislative language was adopted that very clearly stipulates that, as of January 1, 2014, the only health insurance plans that Members of Congress and their staff can be offered are plans “offered through an Exchange established under” ObamaCare. The intent behind this effort was to expose Members of Congress to the health care experience they imposed on their constituents through the new health care law. Under current law OPM does not have the authority to provide premium support to aplan that is not one of the FEHBP plans under contract. Congressman McCaul sees no legal way for OPM to issue a rule that would allow for Members of Congress and their staff to continue to receive health coverage under the FEHBP after December 31, 2013. Congressman McCaul also strongly disapproves of any rule that would allow Congress to circumvent the law through executive action, as OPM is proposing at the direction of the President.###
08.02.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced the One In, Two Out Act which would require any federal agency issuing a new regulation to repeal two existing regulations before the new one takes effect. Modeled after the successful British policy, the One In, Two Out Act requires government departments to assess the net cost to business of complying with any new regulation that is proposed (an “in”). For major regulations with an annual economic cost of more than $100 million, a deregulatory measure (an “out”) must be found that reduces the net cost by at least the same amount before the new regulation may go into effect. When this policy was enacted in the U.K., departments proposed a total of 157 domestic regulatory measures, 119 of which would have imposed a burden on business. After just six months, only 46 regulations remained, and only 11 of those imposed a net cost to business. “This commonsense policy should be emulated in the United States, where the number of pages in the Code of Federal Regulation has more than doubled since 1975” said Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10). “Small businesses in particular are struggling to keep up with complex and costly regulations. The One In, Two Out Act will force regulators to make tough choices when considering new regulatory burdens on businesses."“I hear example after example from business owners, families, and farmers and ranchers across Kansas, how constant government overreach continues to obstruct their ability to plan for the future,” said Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (KS-02). “With federal agencies churning out more and more regulations all the time, I am proud to join my colleagues in introducing this important legislation to try and relieve hardworking Americans from some of this burden.”“I’m pleased to be a co-sponsor of this common-sense measure. America’s small businesses are strapped with too many costly regulations that don’t make sense. With our economy still struggling we should be easing regulations on small business, not adding more,” said Congressman Paul Cook (CA-08).“As our government’s bureaucracy has grown, so has the number of regulations. In one of the worst economic recoveries since World War II, Washington should be encouraging economic growth; not stifling it. I am proud to cosponsor this common-sense legislation because it lays the groundwork for more growth, more jobs, and a brighter future,” said Congressman Tom Rice (SC-07).“The more time and money American businesses must spend complying with regulations, the less they have to invest in new technology and new employees,” said Congressman Neugebauer (TX-19). “The One In, Two Out Act will reduce the regulatory burden from Washington, so businesses can focus on creating jobs.”Small businesses in particular are struggling to cope with the incessant onslaught of regulations, which cost about $1.75 trillion annually, nearly twice as much as all individual income taxes collected last year. According to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, businesses with fewer than 20 employees incur regulatory costs 42% higher than larger business. The Small Business Administration estimates the average regulatory cost per employee exceeds $10,500 per year. In the last decade alone, the number of major regulations (generally those with a $100 million annual economic cost) has increased by more than 60%. 2012 was the costliest year on record for federal regulations, with costs of up to $19.5 billion—more than double the regulatory costs of the next most expensive year. ###
07.31.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This evening the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 850, the Preventing a Nuclear Iran Act, which includes language offered by Congressman Michael McCaul to designate Iran’s Qods Force as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO). Congressman McCaul’s language, which received unanimous support in the Foreign Affairs Committee in May, would mandate that sanctions currently in place against FTOs shall be applied to the Qods Force, which is behind some of the deadliest attacks of the past three decades, including the killing of American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. If signed into law, this designation would allow prosecutors to bring new charges against anyone providing “material support or resources” to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ (IRGC) Qods Force. This includes but is not limited to money, identification, lodging, training, weapons or transportation. The penalty for providing support is up to 15 years to life in prison on top of any other criminal charges. In addition, any foreign member of the Qods Force in the United States can be deported for no other reason than for being a member, and banks must freeze any funds tied to FTOs.“I applaud the House’s action on this critical and time-sensitive legislation, which should be a top priority in the Senate. As Iran presses forward with its nuclear weapons program and continues to use its elite Qods Force to support global terrorism, the U.S. must act now to tighten sanctions and apply pressure on the Iranian regime," said Rep. McCaul, who is a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and is Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. "America’s primary foreign policy objective should be to prevent a nuclear Iran which would have dangerous consequences for the Middle East and the rest of the world.”H.R. 850 strengthens sanctions against the Islamic Republic of Iran, aims to deter the Iranian regime from further pursuing its nuclear weapons ambitions by increasing economic pressure and targeting human rights violators. This legislation now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate.###
07.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) introduced the Prioritizing Debt Reduction in U.S. Foreign Assistance Act, which restricts U.S. foreign assistance to any country that holds more than $500 billion in U.S. Treasury Securities. H.R. 2830 also prohibits further assistance to major foreign debt holders, such as China which alone holds $1.2 trillion in U.S. Treasuries, and aggressively addresses the unsustainable federal debt that will eclipse $17 trillion this summer. The bill makes exceptions for humanitarian and emergency aid."This is not just about aid to China; this is about modest, commonsense reforms to U.S. foreign assistance," said Congressman McCaul. "Republicans and Democrats alike often say that debt reduction and spending reform requires tough choices. I believe this should be one of the easiest choices we make as leaders."No American would donate money to a bank from which they took out a loan. Yet the United States gave China $310 million in foreign assistance between 2001 and 2011, much of it for economic development. "It is hard to understand why the United States would borrow money from a county only to return it in the form of foreign assistance. A better use of such dollars would be paying down debt owed to the crediting country in the first place," Rep. McCaul said.In 1970, 6% of our $370 billion national debt was held by foreign entities. By 2012 foreign holdings accounted for a whopping 48% of America’s $16 trillion debt. # # #
07.18.2013	Washington, D.C. –Today, U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) and Transportation Security Subcommittee Chairman Richard Hudson (R-SC) introduced legislation to reform the Transportation Security Administration’s (TSA) acquisition process. U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Ranking Member Bennie Thompson (D-MS) and Transportation Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Cedric Richmond (D-LA) joined McCaul and Hudson in co-sponsoring the bill.H.R. 2719, the Transportation Security Acquisition Reform Act, requires TSA to develop a multi-year strategic plan for security-related technology acquisitions, conduct a cost-benefit analysis for purchases and create an inventory tracking system. TSA has repeatedly purchased and deployed equipment that was not properly tested or failed to meet performance objectives. By streamlining its process for obtaining new equipment, TSA will improve security, better engage the private sector in research and development and make better use of its budget.Chairman McCaul: “For too long, TSA has struggled with efficiently testing, investing in and deploying new technology. According to the DHS Inspector General, mismanagement has left $185 million in taxpayer-funded equipment, some unusable or outdated, locked up in warehouses. As part of the Committee’s fiscal oversight of the Department, the Transportation Security Acquisition Reform Act will help fix TSA’s broken acquisition process and save taxpayer dollars. The bill adds transparency by requiring TSA to develop a long-term acquisition plan, ensures scarce funds are not wasted on technology that ultimately fails to meet performance objectives, and encourages better use of private sector innovations. H.R. 2719 will help TSA successfully carry out its critical mission of protecting our nation’s transportation systems and will ensure its budget is properly used in the process.”Subcommittee Chairman Hudson: “My top priorities as Chairman of the Transportation Security Subcommittee are to improve transparency and accountability within TSA and lead TSA to a more risk-based, passenger-friendly future that protects taxpayer interests. The bipartisan piece of legislation introduced today includes commonsense reforms that create a multi-year acquisitions plan, establish cost-benefit analysis, improve TSA’s engagement with small business, and efficiently track and manage equipment in inventory. I am confident these reforms will have a lasting impact and help restore trust in TSA’s ability to effectively execute its mission and save hard-earned taxpayer dollars.”Ranking Member Thompson: “I am pleased to join Ranking Member Richmond, Chairman Hudson, and Chairman McCaul in introducing the Transportation Security Acquisition Reform Act. For years, I, along with my colleagues on the Committee, have urged TSA to act as a more prudent steward of taxpayer funds when purchasing security-related technology. In May, we heard from the GAO and the DHS Inspector General on the challenges TSA continues to face with acquisitions. Yesterday, we heard from stakeholders on ways TSA can improve its performance and increase partnerships with small businesses that produce innovative technologies. The legislation introduced today represents a bipartisan effort to increase transparency, accountability, and small business participation in TSA’s acquisition practices.”Subcommittee Ranking Member Richmond: “Small businesses have always been our nation’s greatest innovators - developing new products and technologies while fueling the nation’s economy. It is vital that TSA develop a long-term, strategic acquisition action plan to increase small business participation, promote innovation and increase competition. I’m proud that the Transportation Security Acquisition Reform Act tackles some of TSA’s longstanding acquisition challenges, and I commend Chairman Hudson’s bipartisan approach that has produced this much-needed legislation.”Specifically, H.R. 2719 requires TSA to:· Develop a multi-year technology acquisition plan within 180 days of enactment of the bill and to update the plan every two years.· Conduct a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis to determine if purchases are justified.· Establish and track baseline program requirements, such as estimated costs, schedules, milestones, identified risks and plans to mitigate those risks.· Use existing equipment before purchasing additional equipment and create a process for tracking inventory.· Publish goals for contracting with small and disadvantaged businesses and provide an annual progress report to CongressFull text of H.R. 2719 can be found HERE.###
07.18.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - House Speaker John Boehner has appointed Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) as Chairman of the U.S.-Mexico Interparliamentary Group (IPG) for the 113th Congress, through which he will lead dialogue between members of the United States and Mexican Congresses on issues of bilateral importance."The United States and Mexico share common goals of national and economic security, robust energy production and water resources, and as our third largest trading partner, we are mutually reliant on the need for a secure border and the free flow of commerce," said Chairman McCaul. "I have been encouraged by the direction of President Peña Nieto's administration and I look forward to working with my Mexican counterparts to shape policy between our two nations.""I cannot overstate the importance of our relationship with Mexico and there is no one more qualified than Chairman McCaul, who has spent much of his career working on the important issues that link our two countries, to represent the House of Representatives in our bilateral policy discussions," said Speaker Boehner.Chairman McCaul's IPG policy priorities include bolstering border security, combating cartel infiltration and violence, detecting and stopping human trafficking,reforming Mexico's judicial system and strengthening bilateral trade, economic and energy relations, including reforms to Pemex, Mexico's state-run petroleum company.McCaul is Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee serving on the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee, and former Vice Chair of the IPG. An announcement of House IPG membership is forthcoming. # # #
07.16.2013	Chairman McCaul: “I applaud Mexican authorities for the arrest of Miguel Angel Treviño Morales, the leader of the ruthless Los Zetas cartel. While the capture of one kingpin will not bring back the 80,000 lives lost since 2006 as a result of drug violence, this is an important arrest and a major blow to those who perpetuate rampant violence in Mexico, including along the U.S. border region. I continue to be encouraged that the new administration appears to be moving in the right direction against the cartels. However, I urge President Pena Nieto to follow through with much-needed judicial reforms to strengthen and institutionalize the rule of law. Without such reforms, this and subsequent arrests will mean very little."Congressman McCaul is a senior member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs
07.12.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement on the resignation of Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Janet Napolitano.Chairman McCaul: “As our nation confronts difficult and complex issues such as immigration, border security, and international and homegrown terrorism, it is more important than ever to have a strong head of DHS who is dedicated to improving homeland security. The many agencies housed within DHS are only as effective as their leadership, and it is crucial that the Administration appoints someone who does not underestimate the threats against us, and who is committed to enforcing the law and creating a unified Department. Ten years after the creation of the Department, it is critical that its mission isn’t undermined by politics or political correctness. The border is not secure, and the threat of terrorism is not diminishing. The vision and actions of the Department must reflect that reality.“While Secretary Napolitano and I have disagreed on issues like the security of the border, I respect and thank her for her service. Her departure is a substantial addition to the growing list of unfilled key leadership positions within the Department, and the Administration should move swiftly to fill the gaping holes in its management. I look forward to working with her successor to keep Americans safe, and continue to conduct oversight in order to improve the Department of Homeland Security.”###
07.10.2013	Washington, D.C. – This morning, U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) gave the following statement at a hearing entitled “Assessing Attacks on the Homeland: From Fort Hood to Boston.” Chairman McCaul: I want to thank the witnesses for appearing today. This is an open hearing and today we will vote on convening a closed session tomorrow to receive classified testimony from DHS and the National Counterterrorism Center. Unfortunately, the FBI has refused to appear, and continues to refuse this Committee’s appropriate requests for information and documents crucial to our investigation into what happened in Boston.Three months ago, there was a terrorist attack in our country, and it is this committee’s responsibility to find out how we did not see it coming. What concerns me greatly is that the problem at the heart of preventing the Boston bombings – the failure to share information – is being witnessed now in this very room. The information requested by this Committee belongs to the American people. It does not belong solely to the FBI, and I sincerely hope they do not intend to stonewall our inquiry into how this happened. I said when I started this investigation that we were going to find out what happened, what went wrong and how to fix it, and I will not be satisfied until we get the answers that the American people deserve.As Dzhokar arrives in court today, justice is just beginning. Today, we turn to making sure what he did, is prevented from ever happening again.Just weeks ago, I walked the streets of Boston with my colleague Bill Keating, and while the city’s resilience and strength were obvious everywhere we went - how this attack could have occurred in spite of multiple warnings was still not clear.In many ways, the Boston bombings serve as an assessment of our counterterror efforts over a decade after 9/11, and our investigation will look at how far we have come, and what must be changed to better protect our homeland. Today, by looking at other domestic terror attacks on our soil in addition to the Boston bombings, we seek to identify systemic vulnerabilities in our defenses which could have helped prevent these attacks, and future threats.Since 9/11 the great challenge to our vast homeland security apparatus remains connecting the dots. While much information is available, we must ensure that we have the best system possible for sharing intelligence, particularly when information so clearly warrants additional scrutiny, as it did with Tamerlan Tsarnaev. In this case, while the FBI had investigated the older suspect, his case was not reopened after his travel overseas to a hotbed of jihadist terrorism. Ultimately, as we refine our post-9/11 counterterror policies, this type of failure to follow-up must not continue.This is particularly important as the Administration seeks to return to a pre-9/11 approach to fighting terrorism on our soil – a policy perpetuated by its narrative that the conflict with radical Islamists is ending. Unfortunately, the rhetoric perpetuated by the Administration that the threat of al Qaeda is diminishing, and that its franchises are less dangerous, is not the reality that the United States faces today. For evidence of this, look to the latest edition of al Qaeda’s Inspire magazine which praised the Tsarnaev brothers and encouraged other extremists to conduct similar attacks.Terrorists within the U.S., who are inspired by jihadist rhetoric present a new and dynamic threat and must not be looked at as any less deadly than those abroad. In light of Boston, it is more important than ever to find weaknesses in our counterterror efforts that can be fixed before another attack is attempted.By reviewing the events leading to the last five attacks on the homeland since 9/11, we will find patterns that will shed light on what we must improve. In June 2009, a terrorist targeted an Army-Navy Career Center in Little Rock, Arkansas, killing one soldier and wounding another. Carlos Bledsoe, an American citizen, converted to Islam and spent 16 months in Yemen at a jihadist training camp. Bledsoe had been interviewed by the FBI twice before the shooting, once in Yemen and then again in Nashville. While law enforcement agencies were concerned he may have ties to extremist groups, they did not pursue the matter.The shooting at Fort Hood in November 2009, is another example of government officials either failing to recognize, or failing to pursue, a credible threat. There were signs Major Nidal Hasan had become radicalized, but his superiors failed to discipline or discharge him. The FBI was aware Hasan was communicating with the terrorist Anwar al-Awlaki a year prior to his attack on Fort Hood, where he killed thirteen people and wounded 43 others, but ultimately this information was not shared with Fort Hood.The 2009 attempted attack on a Detroit-bound plane Christmas Day is yet another example of agencies failing to connect the dots. Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab’s father reported his son’s extremism and hatred of the West to the US Embassy, but one agency failed to alert another.The Times Square bomber, Faisal Shahzad, a naturalized US citizen born in Pakistan, was placed on the Traveler Enforcement Compliance, or “TECS” System between 1998 and 2008. However, this computer system does not share information effectively among databases and consequently Shahzad fell off the radar screen and only luck prevented the bomb from going off.Finally, the Boston Marathon bombings show that when agencies fail to share critical information about terrorists, they fail to see the full picture – which could point to an eminent attack. We still do not know if the FBI was alerted to Tamerlan’s travel overseas, but we do know that no action was taken after the fact, and the Deputy Director of the FBI said that even if they had been notified about the travel, the case was closed and would not have been reopened.These events bring to light two areas that deserve scrutiny by this committee. The first being whether information is still being stove-piped between agencies, and the second being whether our agencies need to update their policies in order to be nimble enough to confront the current dynamic terror threat to this country.It is easy to see why this absolutely must be done when you read the words of our enemy in the most recent issue of AQAP’s Inspire Magazine, which praise the Tsarnaev brothers. In one segment, a poem written under the name “Tamerlan 2” declares:“Brother residing in the West, grab your chance and walk steadfastly towards your goal. As for me here in Yemen, whenever I move around with explosive around my waist, I wish I am in America.”Those chilling words make it clear that our enemies applaud the actions of Tamerlan and Dzhokhar and they will try again.We must be better prepared.###
07.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) and Subcommittee on Oversight and Management Efficiency Chairman Jeff Duncan (R-SC) sent a letter to President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner expressing deep concern over the Government of Argentina’s decision to deny Mr. Alberto Nisman, General Prosecutor of the AMIA Case, the opportunity to testify tomorrow regarding Iran’s influence in South America. The Chairmen also requested that Argentina reconsider its decision.The letter to President Fernández de Kirchner is available HERE, and the letter from Alberto Nisman to Chairman Michael McCaul is available HERE.Chairman McCaul on the letter: “Alberto Nisman’s report sheds critical light on how the United States should understand threats to our homeland that emanate from the Iranian regime. His investigation into the 1994 AMIA bombing in Buenos Aires shows that the Iranian presence in the Western Hemisphere is greater than we imagined. Iranian infiltration within countries in our region presents a clear and present danger to our homeland, as do attempts to silence or downplay this threat, and Mr. Nisman’s testimony should be heard.”Subcommittee Chairman Duncan on the letter: “Iran’s willingness to conduct operations in the Western Hemisphere and on American soil is clear. In contrast to the U.S. State Department’s recent assessment that Iran’s influence in Latin America and the Caribbean is ‘waning,’ Nisman’s investigation revealed that Iran is deeply embedded within countries in Latin America and is ready to exploit its position to ‘execute terrorist attacks when the Iranian regime decides to do so.’ Argentina’s decision to deny Nisman permission to share his findings publicly sends a troubling message and is deeply disturbing to regional security and U.S. homeland security.” Excerpts from the letter are below:Dear Madam President: We write to express our sincere disappointment and deep concern over the Government of Argentina’s decision to deny General Prosecutor of the AMIA Case, Mr. Alberto Nisman, the opportunity to testify before the House Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Management Efficiency’s hearing on Tuesday, July 9, 2013 entitled, “Threat to the Homeland: Iran’s Extending Influence in the Western Hemisphere.” This Congressional Subcommittee is composed of Members of Congress from both political parties, as all committees and subcommittees are, and we consider this issue of Iran one of critical importance. Mr. Nisman was invited to share the findings from his October 2006 and May 2013 investigations into the AMIA bombings, which placed responsibility for the attacks on the highest authorities within the Government of Iran. Furthermore, his investigation underscored a critical issue to U.S. homeland security, showing that Iran was “the main sponsor” of an attempted attack in June 2007 on American soil to blow up John F. Kennedy (JFK) airport in Queens, New York. Had the plot not been uncovered, an untold number of Americans could have been killed by this terrorist act. The Government of Argentina has indicated its desire to pursue justice and truth on Iranian involvement in the AMIA bombing. However, the decision to deny authorization for Mr. Nisman to testify before the U.S. Congress does call into question the authenticity of your intentions, and we are deeply disturbed. We respectfully request that you reconsider this issue in light of regional security interests and allow Mr. Nisman to share with Members of Congress the results of his work. ###
07.03.2013	Chairman McCaul: "Barely two years after the Egyptian people called for democratic change in their country and a year after the Muslim Brotherhood came into power, it is troubling to witness such a short-lived experiment in democracy gone awry. I believe this is a positive development and I hope the Egyptian military will move swiftly to restore order and that the United States will play a constructive role in shaping a true democracy in Egypt, which deserves a government that represents all segments of society. We must also continue to advocate for stability in the region, insist that Egypt uphold its commitment to peace with Israel and ensure the free flow of commerce through the Suez Canal."# # #
07.02.2013	"Obamacare was so rushed and so poorly planned that it is collapsing under its own weight. Delaying the coverage mandate is a short term victory for American businesses and the economy. However, only a full repeal will remove the tax and regulatory burdens that have already taken effect and continue to loom. Obamacare has stifled growth by handcuffing businesses that would otherwise expand and its 30-hour definition of full time employment has cut deeply into employee earnings, as employers have scaled back hours to avoid the coverage mandate. To date, we have successfully repealed or rescinded funding for eight provisions of Obamacare and we will not stop until it is fully dismantled and replaced." # # #
06.27.2013	Chairman McCaul: “Today, the Senate passed a cart-before-the-horse border security strategy. The Senate’s ‘border surge’ is a textbook example of government waste, as it throws arbitrary resources at the border without a long-term national strategy or required outcomes. By not including a 90% apprehension requirement, it fails to guarantee progress, and instead borrows money we don’t have to fast-forward immigration reform.“To date, DHS has never developed a comprehensive plan to achieve operational control of our borders which is why we continue to see illegal border crossings shift. Unless we require a nationwide, results-based plan, we will inevitably spend countless taxpayer dollars only to repeat this debate a decade from now.“To address border security the right way, in April, I introduced bipartisan legislation that ensures results. H.R. 1417, the Border Security Results Act, demands a plan, evaluated by outside experts instead of the Administration, before one dollar is spent on new resources. The bipartisan bill, which recently passed the House Homeland Security Committee unanimously, compels DHS to finally develop a comprehensive outcome-based strategy, implementation plan and metrics to achieve operational control of the border – defined as stopping 90% of illegal border crossers – in a tight but achievable timeline. Unlike the legislation passed by the Senate today, the Border Security Results Act demands progress instead of accepting the status quo.” Summary of H.R. 1417, the Border Security Results Act· A National Plan: H.R. 1417 compels DHS to develop a national strategy and implementation plan to gain operational control of high traffic areas within two years and nine months – and the entire Southwest border within five years – setting a standard of 90% effectiveness for apprehending illegal border crossers.· Situational Awareness: H.R. 1417 directs the use of advanced technology to achieve visibility of the entire border by incorporating existing taxpayer owned technology that has proven effective in Iraq and Afghanistan.· Metrics and Results: H.R. 1417 mandates the development of metrics to measure border security progress at and between the nation’s ports of entry to effectively allocate resources and manpower.· Verification at Every Stage: In addition to DHS having to present the plan to the Congress,H.R. 1417 requires GAOto verify the viability of the strategy's implementation plan, metrics, and certification of operational control. Additionally, the metrics will be verified by a National Laboratory and a DHS Center of Excellence, which will serve as an additional layer of scrutiny and expertise.###
06.25.2013	Washington, DC – Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10) and Tom Rooney (FL-17) today introduced legislation prohibiting the Obama Administration from taking military action in Syria, including providing weapons or other support to warring factions, without first receiving Congressional authorization.Chairman McCaul said: “Arming the rebels in Syria potentially places those weapons into the hands of the Islamist extremists who have infiltrated their ranks and who continue to plot against the United States and our interests abroad. If the president believes American involvement in Syria is necessary, he will have to present a convincing plan to the Congress and make the case that providing assistance to Syrian opposition forces would not pose a national security threat to the United States.” McCaul is the Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and serves on the Foreign Affairs Committee.Rep. Rooney said: “What is the goal of providing weapons to the rebels? We know that the rebels have been infiltrated by al Qaeda and some of the same people we’ve been fighting for the last 10 years. Senior administration officials have told me they can’t give any assurance that our weapons won’t wind up in the hands of al Qaeda. So what’s our endgame? If the President wants to take us into Syria, he needs to come to Congress and convince us. The President needs to make a convincing case that this is in our national security interest, and he needs to lay out a clear and comprehensive mission, including an exit strategy. He hasn’t done that yet.” Rooney serves on the House Intelligence and Appropriations Committees.The Rooney-McCaul “Congressional Accountability and Oversight in Syria Act” would prohibit the Administration from providing weapons or other support to any faction in Syria without first receiving explicit authorization from Congress. It further prohibits the Administration from exercising American military force in Syria, including but not limited to enforcing a no-fly zone or putting American boots on the ground, without Congressional authorization, consistent with the War Powers Resolution.Link to full text of bill.###
06.25.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) announced that H.R. 1417, the Border Security Results Act, has received more than 1,000 “citizen cosponsors” on Cosponsor.Gov, an interactive website established by Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA).H.R. 1417 is one of the top “cosponsored” bills on the website Cosponsor.Gov, an expansion of Majority Leader Cantor’s Citizen Cosponsor Project launched in June. The bill was introduced by Chairman McCaul and Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairman Candice Miller (R-MI) in April and requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to draft and implement a national border strategy to gain and maintain operational control of the nation’s borders. In May, the bipartisan bill passed the House Committee on Homeland Security unanimously.Chairman McCaul: “Calls for border security to come before sweeping changes to our immigration system continue to grow louder. The Administration claims the border is secure, but the reality is far from the rhetoric. The vast public support for the Border Security Results Act on Cosponsor.gov demonstrates Americans’ desire to see actual, proven progress on the border. This bill requires DHS to finally develop and implement a long-term national strategy to secure our borders using advanced technology that will allow us to see what we currently can’t and create real measures to gauge progress. The strategy must be presented to the Congress and the implementation plan and metrics will all be verified by outside, nonpartisan experts. The groundswell of support from citizen cosponsors shows the need for this bill to become lawso Americans can finally see results – not just more resources thrown at the border in an ad hoc way without a plan for measurable success.”H.R. 1417: · Compels DHS to develop a national strategy and implementation plan to gain operational control of the entire Southwest border, defined as apprehending 90% of illegal border crossers· Directs the use of advanced technology to achieve visibility of the entire border by incorporating existing taxpayer-owned Department of Defense technology being brought back from Iraq and Afghanistan· Mandates the development of metrics to measure border security progress at and between the nation’s ports of entry to effectively allocate resources and manpower· Requires GAO, the independent, investigative arm of Congress, to verify the viability of the implementation plan of the strategy, metrics, and certification of operational control###Click to visit the Border Security Results Act page on Cosponsor.Gov
06.17.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement in response to the announcement that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton will be stepping down.Chairman McCaul: "Director Morton's departure marks an opportunity for the President to commit to the full enforcement of our nation's immigration laws. As Congress debates changes to our immigration system, it is essential that the President appoints someone qualified and committed to interior enforcement, so Americans can trust that the laws passed by Congress are carried out."The President should move quickly to fill this vacancy in addition to numerous other unfulfilled high-level positions. Many of DHS's most important posts remain empty, including Inspector General, which has been vacant for over two years, and Customs and Border Protection, which has not had a confirmed commissioner in over four years. Without leadership, DHS operations, accountability and morale will continue to suffer, and the many dedicated individuals within the Department deserve better from this Administration."###
06.04.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives has once again passed language proposed by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) to prohibit the practice of using taxpayer dollars to fund projects and programs named for sitting House members. The latest language is contained in Section 407 of HR 2216, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, introduced by Rep. John Culberson (R-Houston), and would specifically apply to VA and military construction projects and programs.“The question is not whether these projects are worthy of taxpayer dollars. It’s a problem of perception that these projects receive special treatment because of the names they bear,” said Rep. McCaul. “At a minimum, when the American people see this it feeds the belief that members of Congress are arrogant and out of touch with the people we represent. At worst these ‘monuments to me’ serve as a fundraising tool and campaign ad for the incumbent at taxpayer expense.”“This is one step toward restoring faith in the federal government, which was at an all time low even before the latest scandals involving the IRS and freedom of the press,” McCaul said. Language Congressman McCaul has introduced has influenced spending in Washington for the past five years: 2008 – practice banned for all spending in first quarter FY’09 and for VA/MilCon spending for all of FY’092009 – Democrat House Appropriations Chairman banned the funding of earmarks named for members2011 and 2013 – adopted in the official House RulesSEC. 407 of HR 2216 reads: None of the funds made available in this Act may be used for a project or program named for an individual serving as a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House of Representatives.The spending practice is often tied to projects funded through earmarks. Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor, was among the first members to stop requesting earmarks in 2008because the system is too susceptible to waste, fraud and abuse.In its January 25, 2011 edition, The Wall Street Journal called Rep. McCaul’s effort a “long overdue reform” in its column, Enough With the ‘Monuments to Me’.# # #
06.03.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement urging President Obama not to sign the UN small arms treaty:"I urge President Obama not to sign the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT), which threatens the fundamental Second Amendment rights of American gun owners. The ATT, which was adopted by unelected representatives at the United Nations, would place onerous reporting requirements on businesses including record keeping of end users, leading to an international gun registry. It could also hinder Americans' ability to import certain arms and make it difficult for the U.S. to support allies, such as Israel." Congressman McCaul has sent multiple letters to the Obama Administration opposing the treaty. He is an original cosponsor of H.Con.Res. 23, which calls on the President to oppose the ATT and the Senate not to ratify it.# # #
05.27.2013	Chairman McCaul: "Today, as we commemorate the bravest of Americans who gave the ultimate sacrifice for our freedoms we hold so dear, we are surrounded by a world that has become increasingly volatile. It is fueled by extremist elements that fill the power vacuums created by uprisings and toppled regimes, in far-away lands such as Libya, Egypt and Syria. Their hatred now circles the globe at the speed of the Internet. Make no mistake: America remains at war with this radical ideology. And as we saw in Boston, in Benghazi, at Fort Hood, and in numerous other plots against Americans, our enemies are committed to their cause. "America’s Armed Forces are our first and best line of defense against our enemies abroad. This morning I am proud to speak at the Veterans Memorial Park in Smithville where a statue of an angel will be dedicated to the lives of seven fallen heroes with ties to Bastrop County. Sgt. Mario Rodriguez, Jr., Lance Cpl. Cody R. Stanley, Captain Joshua Meadows, Specialist Joshua Ray Farris, Pfc. Tina Marie Priest, Chief Petty Officer Matthew Mills of Navy SEAL Team 6, and Army Staff Sgt. Joseph Altman, each passed away between 2006 and 2011. To every man and woman who has donned the uniform, and to your families, we thank you for your service and your sacrifice. No less than our freedoms and our Constitutional Democracy are in your hands."Chairman McCaul delivered formal remarks at the dedication of the Veterans Memorial Park in Smithville, Texas.# # #
05.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech today on counterterrorism and national security policy.Chairman McCaul:“The fact remains that al Qaeda and its affiliates continue to threaten the homeland. The President’s desire to close Guantanamo Bay leaves the homeland vulnerable to terrorists who will be transferred back to terror safe havens, and that history has shown could return to the fight. The President’s policies signal a retreat from the threat of al Qaeda, which has decentralized and spread throughout the world. While this threat has changed, it has not diminished. The Obama Administration’s return to a pre-9/11 counterterrorism mindset puts American lives at risk. This war will continue whether the President acknowledges it or not.”###
05.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Language offered by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), calling for the designation of Iran’s Qods Force as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO), was unanimously agreed to as part of comprehensive Iran sanctions legislation adopted today by the House Foreign Affairs Committee. H.R. 850, the Iran Nuclear Prevention Act of 2013, which strengthens sanctions against the Islamic Republic of Iran, aims to deter the Iranian regime from further pursuing its nuclear weapons ambitions by increasing economic pressure and targeting human rights violators.Congressman McCaul and Congressman Keating’s language would mandate that sanctions currently in place against FTOs shall be applied to the Qods Force, which is behind some of the deadliest attacks of the past three decades, including the killing of American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. If signed into law, this designation would allow prosecutors to bring new charges against anyone providing “material support or resources” to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ (IRGC) Qods Force. This includes but is not limited to money, identification, lodging, training, weapons or transportation. The penalty for providing support is up to 15 years to life in prison on top of any other criminal charges. In addition, any foreign member of the Qods Force in the United States can be deported for no other reason than for being a member, and banks must freeze any funds tied to FTOs.“The Qods Force’s actions fit squarely within the definition of terrorism, whether it be its support for deadly terror attacks across the globe or its blatant human rights violations and coercion of anti-regime activists inside Iran. Designating the Qods Force as a foreign terrorist organization is long overdue,” said Congressman McCaul, the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. “The IRGC’s Qods Force presents an immediate threat to the United States and our allies in Europe and elsewhere,” said William R. Keating, Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats and a Member of the Committee on Homeland Security. “Their influence extends far beyond Iran’s border and directly contributes to instability within the region. This has been exhibited in both attempted and successful terror plots from Kenya to Bulgaria, particularly through their partnership with Hezbollah. Subjecting the Qods Force to direct sanctions will further limit their resources and, in turn, the danger they present.”H.R. 850 now awaits consideration by the full House of Representatives, where it has 338 cosponsors on both sides of the political aisle.###
05.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The House Homeland Security Committee unanimously approved bipartisan legislation introduced by Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) to compel the Department of Homeland Security to develop a strategy for gaining operational control of our borders in two years. H.R. 1417, the Border Security Results Act, requires DHS to utilize technology to gain situational awareness and to produce metrics to accurately gauge progress. The bill passed committee markup last week by unanimous vote. Next, the bill will go to the House floor. "This is the next step in ensuring DHS finally produces a strategy to secure the border," said Chairman McCaul. "Once in place, the strategy and implementation plan will determine how we apply the resources we send to the border. This will reduce duplication, streamline our spending, and ensure we are only puttingtaxpayer dollars towards what works, with a clear goal in mind."During Committee debate, Democrats attempted to amend the bill to appropriate $3 billion up front. Chairman McCaul led efforts to defeat the amendment."The problem all along is we've been throwing resources ad hoc without accountability," said Chairman McCaul. "This is the cart before the horse. It is premature at this point in time to know what that number is. I want to know what their strategy is first."H.R. 1417 addresses only border security, and is independent of efforts to reform our immigration system. Regardless of what happens in the immigration debate, the goal of Chairman McCaul's bill is to ensure that border security is realized, and that we do not repeat the mistakes of 1986 when the promise of border security went unfulfilled. # # #
05.17.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Frank Wolf (R-VA), released the following statement on the Department of Justice refusing to answer questions about whether it advised the Army in the Fort Hood case:Chairman McCaul and Congressman Wolf: "Once again, the Attorney General has refused to answer questions in our March 15 letter regarding the Department of Justice’s role determining whether the Fort Hood attack would be investigated and prosecuted as a terrorist attack or ‘workplace violence’. This response comes on the heels of his refusal to answer similar questions at an Appropriations hearing last month. It is time that the November 5, 2009 Fort Hood attack be properly designated as a terrorist event and for the Attorney General to answer these questions.” Copied below is a list of the questions asked of the Attorney General that remain unanswered:Did you or any other Justice Department official provide any written or verbal guidance to the Department of Defense recommending charges for Maj. Hasan? If so, what was the nature of that communication and the guidance provided? Did you or any other Justice Department official advise Sec. McHugh or any other Defense Department official on how designating Maj. Hasan as a terrorist would impact the military trial? If so, what was the nature of that communication and the guidance provided? Do you consider the Fort Hood attack of November 5, 2009 to be an act of terrorism or an act of “workplace violence”? Immediately following the Fort Hood terrorist attack, was the investigation considered a terrorism investigation or a criminal investigation? At what point was the decision made that Maj. Hasan would not be investigated and/or charged as a terrorist?Immediately following the Fort Hood terrorist attack, did the Justice Department prevent the FBI or any U.S. Attorney’s office from using any anti-terror statutory authority to fully investigate this case? Additionally, was any terrorism investigative or prosecutorial authority sought from the Justice Department’s National Security Division and, if so, was this request approved or denied? In the weeks immediately following the Fort Hood terrorist attack, with whom in the White House and Department of Defense did you or other Justice Department officials communicate? Was there a formal or informal interagency working group formed to address, respond to and/or coordinate the government’s legal, political and national security response to the Fort Hood attack of November 5, 2009? If so, who were the individuals who participated in this group? Who was the person responsible for chairing and/or leading this group? On how many occasions did it meet? We also request all documents in the department’s possession pertaining to these efforts.Whom in your department was responsible for creating, reviewing or approving anystatements, press releases, talking points and/or other communications or policy statements issued by or from any of the following between the afternoon of November 5, 2009 to March 1, 2010 concerning or with respect to the November 5, 2009 Fort Hood attack: The President, White House staff, the Secretary and/or staff of the Department of Homeland Security, Gen. George Casey, theSecretary and/or staff or employees of the Department of Defense (including but not limited to the Army)? We also request all documents in the department’s possession pertaining to these efforts.Both the March 15 letter to Attorney General Holder, and the response from the Attorney General’s office, are attached.# # #
05.15.2013	Chairman McCaul: Our homeland security hinges on how well we can control who and what comes into this country. A porous border is a conduit for not only drug smugglers and human traffickers, but is also a vulnerability that terrorists can exploit.We have all heard the empty claims by the Administration that the border is more secure now than ever. But this rhetoric is in stark contrast to reality.The extent of the gaps in border security is huge. A recent Los Angeles Times report showed that by using proven aerial surveillance equipment from Afghanistan, we can now see just how much we’ve been missing. The data shows that the Border Patrol is apprehending less than half of illegal border crossers in certain sectors, which is significantly less than current estimates.It is time to tackle border security the right way.For too long the emphasis when discussing border security has been on the number of resources thrown at the problem, but this is only part of the equation. It is time to focus on actual progress.The Border Security Results Act fixes the current ad-hoc approach of plugging holes on the border, and finally addresses border security from the top-down by compelling a national strategy. The bill provides the Department with a roadmap to finally gain control of the border, and also requires a valid, verifiable way to measure progress.We can upgrade our capabilities by incorporating existing taxpayer-owned technology such as Department of Defense Sensor Surveillance equipment used in Iraq and Afghanistan in order to gain comprehensive visibility of the border landscape. Once we have the complete picture of who we are missing, we can allocate patrol and response teams appropriately and ultimately gauge our success.Requiring the Department of Homeland Security to finally develop and implement a serious plan to secure the border is the first step. The strategy and implementation plan required by this legislation will inform how we apply the resources we send to the border. This will reduce duplication, streamline our spending, and ensure we are only putting taxpayer dollars towards what works, with a clear goal in mind.That goal is a secure border, where we apprehend the overwhelming majority of illegal crossers and illicit materials, and at the same time facilitate the legitimate trade and travel that grows our economy.With that as a guide, we have defined Operational Control in this bill based on the oversight work of the Committee. It is a reflection of testimony from the Chief of the Border Patrol – a 90% standard for success.At last count, the GAO determined that DHS had less than half of the southwest border under Operational Control and only 2% of the Northern border – an unacceptable outcome by any objective standard.The bar we set in this legislation is tough, realistic and achievable. Stopping 90% of illegal crossers and interdicting significant portions of drugs coming into this country will increase our security.We cannot let perfection be the enemy of progress. While we may never achieve air-tight security, that cannot be an excuse to do nothing. Additionally, we cannot continue to rely on measures such as apprehensions to give us a false sense of security.Instead, security it must be based on hard and verifiable facts. This bill calls on the Administration to develop a series of measures at and between the ports of entry and in the maritime environment that are based on effectiveness.Passage of this legislation will ensure that the American people can be confident that when we say we are secure, it’s actually based on something tangible and measurable.To ensure these measures are accurate, the Border Security Results Act includes verification steps at every stage. The bill uses Congress’ investigative arm, the Government Accountability Office to verify the viability of the implementation plan of the strategy.The metrics will be verified by a National Laboratory with expertise in border security, and a DHS Center of Excellence will serve as an additional layer of scrutiny and expertise.We have seen the promises of border security coupled with immigration reform go unfulfilled in the past. We cannot repeat the mistakes of 1986 all over again. If Congress again addresses immigration changes without focusing on the root of the problem, we will undoubtedly repeat this debate a decade from now.I believe the legislation that we are marking up today is the solution to the border security problem that the American people have demanded we fix. ###*Opening statements, bill and amendment text, and the live video feed are available HERE.
05.09.2013	At a hearing today examining the Boston Marathon Bombings, Boston Police Commissioner Ed Davis, Massachusetts DHS Undersecretary Kurt Schwartz and former U.S. Senator Joseph Lieberman examined the lack of information sharing about Tamerlan Tsarnaev between federal, state and local authorities prior to the April 15 terrorist attack:Chairman McCaul: Before the bombing, were you aware that based on this Russian intelligence, that the FBI opened an investigation into Tamerlan?Commissioner Davis: We were not aware of that.Chairman McCaul: Would you have liked to have known about that?Commissioner Davis: Yes.Chairman McCaul: If you knew of a Russian intelligence warning that this man was an extremist that may travel overseas. And the fact that he did travel overseas, and came back into the United States. Would that have caused you to give this individual an second look?Commissioner Davis: Absolutely.Chairman McCaul: Undersecretary Schwartz, the Department of Homeland Security funds these fusion centers. Was the fusion center given any of this information that I just asked the Commissioner?Undersecretary Schwartz: Like the Boston Police Department, the state police through the Commonwealth fusion center, has I believe seven troopers assigned on a full time basis to the JTTF. My understanding is that at no time prior to the bombings, did any member of the Massachusetts State Police or the Fusion Center have any information or knowledge about the Tsarnaev brothers.Chairman McCaul: The whole point of having fusion centers and joint terrorism task forces is to share information and coordinate. I used to work with joint terrorism task forces. But the idea that the feds have this information and it was not shared with the state and locals, defies why we created the Department of Homeland Security in the first place, and it’s very troubling to me.Senator Lieberman, you went through a litany of cases where individuals – al-Awlaki, Bledsoe, the Fort Hood shooting that you did a fantastic investigation looking at why the dots weren’t connected. Here we are twelve years later, we put billions of dollars into this. Why are we still having problems connecting the dots?Senator Lieberman: Let me first say that the line of questioning that you just carried out with Commissioner Davis and Secretary Schwartz and their answers are very important. This may be one of the most significant and painful takeaway lessons from the Boston Marathon terrorist attacks because particularly when you are dealing with home grown radicals the community around them is probably going to be your first line of defense and state and local law enforcement will always have a better knowledge of the neighborhood, of the institutions that the people might be involved in. So I would say the fact that neither the FBI nor DHS in the one case of that Customs and Border Protection agent didn't notify the local members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force in Boston is really a serious and aggravating omission.*Chairman McCaul’s questioning and opening statement can be foundHERE.
05.09.2013	"Texas has maintained unemployment rates consistently below the national average, and one of the most dynamic high tech sectors in the nation continues to thrive. By contrast, when the President visited Applied Materials he brought his agenda which has only served to stifle growth, slow economic recovery and create an heir of uncertainty for companies attempting to expand. While I welcome the President to the 10th District, I also encourage him to look around at what low taxes and fewer government regulations help job-creating innovators to produce. "High tech is one of Central Texas' and America's greatest economic engines and job producers. As founder and chairman of the House High Tech Caucus I would encourage President Obama to pay particular attention to the needs of the high tech community. Increasing and making permanent R&D tax credits as well as lowering the corporate tax rate are necessary policies for America's tech sector to better compete globally. Repatriation instead of the threat of double taxation would incentivize job creation in the United States instead of overseas and would result in broadening the tax base at home. It is my hope that our future scientists and engineers, many of whom the President met at Manor New Tech, will encounter thriving businesses that have a clear path to growth and innovation by the time they enter the workforce." # # #
05.09.2013	Chairman McCaul: The attacks in Boston shook this nation, and brought back memories of that day in September, 2001, that changed our lives forever. I am confident that we will emerge from this tragedy stronger than ever before. Anyone who thinks they can execute an attack on this country and change our way of life, greatly underestimates our spirit and our resolve.It is the responsibility of this committee to provide oversight and investigate what happened, what went wrong and what we can do to better protect American lives. The victims and their families deserve no less. We will never forget April 15th. But we must do more than remember, we must hold accountable those who did us harm, as well as the terrorists who inspired them. We must also demand more than just answers for any mistakes made. We must find solutions so that it does not happen again.In the chaos following the blasts, the American people, including myself, were amazed at the courage of first responders and civilians who ran towards the explosion, instead of away. These men and women motivate us all to pick up the pieces and move forward.Commissioner, we applaud you, as well as the first responders and law enforcement officials who risked their lives to save others. We owe all of you a debt of gratitude.In order to move forward, today we look back. The families who lost loved ones, and the over 260 wounded deserve answers about how this happened, and what can be improved in the future. Almost three weeks after the smoke cleared on Boylston Street, many questions remain.What we know today is that radical Islamists still threaten our homeland. While we don’t know if this attack was foreign-directed, we certainly know it was foreign-inspired. Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s trip to the Chechen region; the radical videos proclaiming the Caliphate that he posted when he returned; and the type of bombs he and his younger brother used, all signal an al Qaeda-inspired terrorist attack. While mystery continues to surround what happened on the older brother’s trip to Dagestan, much can be drawn from what we know about the region. Many Chechen rebels have forged a bond with the al Qaeda jihadist movement. These lethal warriors have fought side-by-side with al Qaeda and the Taliban against U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan and Iraq. In fact, my constituent’s son, Marine Sergeant Byron Norwood, was killed by nine Chechen rebels in Iraq.Perhaps most appalling, are the suspect’s reported statements following his capture. These men who hate our values used our freedoms to kill Americans.Since the bombing, questions have been raised about whether dots were connected before and after the attack. We know that Russian intelligence warned the FBI about Tamerlan, and that he may travel outside the United States to meet with extremists. We know he was then investigated and interviewed by the FBI, but when he travelled to the Chechen region in 2012, the FBI was unaware. The CIA also received an alert from Russian intelligence and the agency asked that he be added to a terror watch list.We now know that D.H.S. was alerted to his trip overseas, but nothing was done. In other words, he was on our radar and then he was off. What remains unanswered is whether this information was shared between federal agencies and state and local officials.Almost nine months after Tamerlan returned, he and his brother Dzhokhar, executed the largest terrorist attack on our soil since 9/11. This demonstrates that the radical jihad movement is alive and well around the world and in the homeland. We learned over a decade ago, the danger in failing to connect the dots. The cornerstone of the 9/11 Commission Report was that agencies had “stove-piped” intelligence, which prevented us from seeing potential terrorist plots. In fact, the DHS was created in the wake of 9/11 to help fix this problem. My fear is that the Boston bombers may have succeeded because our system failed. We can and must do better. Equally concerning is the emerging narrative which downplays the spread of the global jihadist movement. From the attack at Fort Hood, to the tragedy at Benghazi, the Boston bombings are our most recent reminder that we must call terrorism what it is, in order to confront it. You cannot defeat an enemy you refuse to acknowledge. I was disturbed in the days following the attack to read that some “officials” had closed the case on whether there was a “foreign connection,” when the FBI had just begun its investigation. As a former federal counterterrorism prosecutor, this rush to judgment was both premature and irresponsible. The American people demand and deserve accountability. And while we investigate what may have gone wrong, we must also pay tribute to what went right. Just as tragedy often exposes weaknesses, it also reveals our character. The acts of heroism in Boston in the minutes and days after the attack made us all proud to be Americans.### *Opening statements, witness testimony, and the live video feed are available HERE.
05.03.2013	A Disaster Recovery Center will open at 7 a.m. Saturday, May 4 in West, Texas for homeowners, renters and business owners who sustained damage as a result of the fertilizer plant explosion.Specialists from the State of Texas, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) will be on hand to answer questions and provide information on the types of assistance available to survivors. The center will operate from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily and will remain open until further notice.“The recovery center will serve as a one-stop shop for folks who need one-on-one assistance,” said Federal Coordinating Officer Kevin L. Hannes. “State and federal professionals will be available to help eligible survivors get help as quickly as possible.”Location and hours:POINTWEST Bank – Front Entrance210 N. Roberts Rd.West, Texas 76691Hours: 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. starting May 4 until further noticeVisiting with a recovery specialist is not a requirement for survivors who want disaster assistance, but the centers are an excellent way for people to get answers to their questions about disaster aid and help applying for it.The amended April 19 emergency declaration makes federal assistance available to eligible survivors in McLennan County. Individuals can register online at www.disasterassistance.govorvia web-enabled phone at m.fema.gov. Applicants may also call 1-800-621-3362 or (TTY) 1-800-462-7585. If you use 711-Relay or Video Relay Services (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. seven days a week until further notice.Residents registering by phone or online will be asked to identify the description of damages sustained and must select the “EXPLOSION” option. Residents will then be asked to identify the type of damage and must select the “fire/smoke/soot/ash” option. (Do NOT select the “other” option). ###
05.03.2013	"Behind the thin veil of progress in the latest jobs report remains a majority of workers who have simply quit looking, and labor force participation at a near 30 year low. Unfortunately this administration's economic policies continue to short-change millions of Americans who have given up or are still looking for jobs by hindering the businesses that create them. Until the President embraces the proven principles of low tax rates and easing the burden of regulations, our nation's economic prosperity will remain unachievable."# # #
05.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) today announced a hearing, scheduled for May 9, to examine the Boston bombings and the implications for homeland security.Chairman McCaul: “Two weeks ago, our country was attacked by radical Islamist terrorists. Four lives were lost and hundreds of others were forever changed. As our nation recovers, it is imperative that we understand what happened, what signs may have been missed and what we can improve.“The Committee is currently examining the events leading up to the attack on our homeland, the genesis of this plot and the reaction by law enforcement. Next week's hearing will provide an opportunity to hear from those who were on the front lines of the response effort and who were present through the attack and its aftermath.“This will be the first in a series of hearings, as part of a broader investigation into the Boston Marathon bombings. The investigation will look at how law enforcement addressed the area after the attack; how federal, state and local officials communicated with their counterparts at other agencies regarding the suspects before and following the event; and the challenges associated with securing our country since 9/11. Ultimately the investigation will assess how our efforts have evolved to meet the dynamic terrorist threat of foreign-inspired attacks on our soil, and what changes may be necessary to protect the homeland.”THURSDAY, May 9, 2013, at 9:00 a.m.The Boston Bombings: A First Look311 Cannon House Office BuildingInvited Witnesses Include:· Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis· U.S. Senator Joseph I. Lieberman· Massachusetts Undersecretary for Homeland Security Director Kurt SchwartzLive video of the hearing can be found here.###
04.25.2013	"After more than two years of senseless murder and violence in the Levant, the United States should be clear with the world about our interests and objectives in Syria. The security of the United States is at risk when armed extremists are given safe haven in a country with scores of chemical and biological weapons that could be proliferated and used against us and our allies. President Obama must show leadership and level with the American people about how his administration plans to respond to these new developments, which, by his definition, have crossed a ‘red line’.”Congressman McCaul is Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee.# # #
04.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding the apprehension of the second Boston bombing suspect.Chairman McCaul: “I commend the FBI, JTTF and Boston Police for their work in this case, identifying the suspects and taking them off the streets. Their efforts to keep the people of Boston safe while conducting this manhunt have been nothing short of monumental. My prayers are with the family of the MIT security officer who lost his life in a shootout with the suspects and several other officers who were wounded. “While we have made it more difficult for terrorists to carry out attacks from overseas, the attack on the Boston Marathon is indicative of the shift in terrorists' tactics in recent years to inspire people who are living in the United States to strike. While several plots of this nature have been thwarted, this is the first to succeed. Americans must not back down in the face of terrorism, and we will continue to look for those would attempt to do us harm. In the coming weeks the Homeland Security Committee will begin to ask how this happened, and how we can prevent it from happening again.”###
04.18.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding the explosion in West, Texas.Chairman McCaul: "My prayers are with the people of West, Texas as they cope with the catastrophic damage caused by last night's explosion. The images are heartbreaking. Reports of volunteer firefighters and other first responders running into the danger to rescue their neighbors is the face of resilience and courage in our state's tight-knit communities. Today I spoke with Col. McCraw at DPS and assured him they will have any and all federal resources they need. And I received assurances from Secretary Napolitano who testified before my committee this morning that FEMA stands ready to assist with any unmet needs."###
04.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding the bombings at the Boston Marathon.“My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of the explosions at the Boston Marathon today, their families, and with the heroic first responders and good samaritans on the scene. In my judgment this has all the hallmarks of an act of terrorism, but we do not know for sure who did it. I am in touch with local authorities in Boston as well as federal authorities who have launched an investigation into this malicious attack and I am certain that whoever is responsible will be held accountable. I would urge the American people to remain calm but vigilant. Today's events are a stark reminder that our enemies continue to plot against us."###
04.10.2013	"The fact that the President has not changed his approach in four years tells us he is either satisfied with a mediocre economy, or that his commitment to political posturing for the midterms is greater than his commitment to Americans who need jobs and to businesses that create them. His budget reflects a choice to weaken our national and homeland defenses by refusing to address our crippling debt, limiting our flexibility in a time of crisis. We must reform entitlements to bring down our debt and we must minimize the tax burden on families and small businesses. "It is bad enough that the President has offered more of the same—higher taxes, out-of-control spending and a budget that never balances—which Democrats and Republicans have rejected time and time again. It is worse that for the first time in modern history, the President’s budget is not just bad, it is irrelevant, arriving months late, in violation of the law. This is a low-point for presidential leadership at a time when America needs it the most."# # #
04.10.2013	Fox News "America's Newsroom" Fox News "Happening Now"
04.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) and Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security Chairman Candice Miller (R-Mich.) today introduced legislation to secure our nation’s porous borders. The Border Security Results Act of 2013 (H.R. __) compels the creation of a comprehensive national strategy to secure our borders and requires the deployment of metrics to gauge the results of our efforts. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) today introduced the Senate version. Ten years after the creation of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), it has never produced a comprehensive strategy to gain operational control of our borders, and it still does not have measures to determine if security is improving. The Administration’s current ad hoc border approach, which includes more than a dozen strategies and 22 independent units directing border security operations, has resulted in government waste and the continuation of illegal migration. Sending large amounts of resources to certain border sectors has simply pushed illegal border crossers to other areas. This legislation ensures that DHS finally develops a comprehensive national strategy and verified metrics, so that Americans see lasting results on our borders.Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Texas): “Not knowing who is coming across our borders threatens our economic and national security. Americans have seen that promises of border security coupled with immigration reform have gone unfulfilled in the past. The Border Security Results Act of 2013 ensures that border security will be realized. This legislation compels the use of taxpayer-owned technology to gain situational awareness of our borders so that we can finally see what we’re missing, and doing so will allow us to develop measures to gauge progress. For too long, we have approached border security backwards – by throwing resources at the problem, to plug the holes on our borders without a comprehensive plan to tactically distribute those resources. Until Congress mandates the creation of a national strategy, the Administration will continue to say the border is secure while America's back door remains wide open.”Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas): “Since 2010, the Administration has failed to provide a metric for determining border security, yet they continue to claim that the border is secure. By requiring the Administration to come up with a clear measurement of security, as well as a timeline for development and implementation, we can ensure that our national security policy is based on real results, and not baseless claims. “We’re committed to learning from past failures, and are setting standards for significantly lowering wait times at ports of entry on the border and significantly higher rates of apprehension for those who enter the country illegally.”Rep. Candice Miller (R-Mich.): “The American people expect and deserve to have a high degree of certainty that our nation’s borders are secure. As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security, I want to ensure that we do not repeat the mistakes made in the past, nor can we accept empty promises on border security – we need hard, verifiable facts. We need a strategy to get us to a place where we can be confident that the overwhelming majority of illegal crossers are apprehended, as well as drugs and other contraband interdicted. Absent a national strategy and a way to measure our border security efforts, we will have the same immigration conversation year after year.”Background: The Border Security Results Act of 2013 requires DHS to develop a comprehensive outcome-based strategy for securing our borders that:Incorporates advanced technology to get a complete picture of the security of the entire border for full situational awarenessEmploys this data to properly allocate manpower and other resourcesCreates new metrics to define progress based off the number of apprehensions relative to the total number of illegal crossingsTo ensure Congressional oversight, the legislation also requires DHS to meet a timeline for the development and implementation of the strategy, the results of which must be verified by outside experts. Specifically, DHS must:Develop a strategy to secure the border within 120 days of bill passageImplement its strategy 60 days after development, with the implementation plan to be reviewed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO)Gain situational awareness within 2 years of bill passageGain operational control of the border within 2 years of implementation of its strategySubmit to an independent audit by a DHS National Lab and the GAO to verify the validity of their proposed metrics.The full text of the Border Security Results Act of 2013 can be found here.###
04.05.2013	"While today’s unemployment report shows a marginal improvement in the number of jobs created in March, it falls well below most economists’ job growth predictions. This should be a clear sign to the Obama administration that it must shelve its half decade-old policies that continue to hinder America's ability to prosper. Last month, House Republicans passed a budget that balances within ten years, keeps tax rates low and commits to reforming entitlements that we desperately need to nurse our way back to economic health. Our progress will continue to be anemic at best without a clear path toward economic prosperity that provides certainty for our job creators. I urge my colleagues in the Democrat-controlled Senate to take a serious look at this budget plan and consider what is best for our country's long-term economic and national security, rather than political expediency. Next week, President Obama will release his budget proposal that reports indicate will offer modest reforms to our nation’s entitlement programs. While this would represent progress, reports also indicate his budget will contain tax hikes that will only further strain our economic growth. I look forward to seeing the President's plan."# # #
03.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) released the following statement after voting in favor of H.Con.Res. 25, "Path to Prosperity", the budget resolution for FY 2014:Congressman McCaul: "This morning the House passed a responsible, conservative budget which balances in 10 years without raising taxes, that reforms entitlements – the biggest drivers of our spending, and that repeals Obamacare before it becomes another entitlement that American families and businesses cannot afford. "Yesterday, I voted for the Republican Study Committee budget that would have balanced in four years, cut spending to FY'08 levels and reformed entitlements. Unfortunately this more aggressive plan to cut our debt did not pass the House."While I am encouraged that for the first time in nearly four years the Senate has also taken up a budget, its plan raises taxes by $1.5 trillion and would never balance. I am disappointed that President Obama has yet to submit his budget as required by law and that his leadership has been absent in this debate." # # #
03.14.2013	Bill Provides Tools to Help Stop Cyber Threats to American Military and Economic SecurityWASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Science, Space and Technology Committee unanimously approved the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2013 (H.R. 756), a bipartisan bill introduced by Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-IL) and Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) that serves as an important first step in helping protect American military and economic interests from cyber threats. Approval of the bill comes just days after Director of National Intelligence, James Clapper, told Congress that the danger of cyber attacks and cyber espionage on crucial infrastructure tops the list of global threats. The bill, the first cyber legislation to pass through any committee this Congress, is now cleared for consideration on the House floor. “Threats to the homeland are evolving and so too must our defenses,” said Rep. McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. “I believe this is the Congress when we will finally address in a meaningful way the serious cybersecurity challenges our nation faces, including research and development, which is the focus of this important legislation. The stakes are too high for us not to act.” “When I first began working on this bill, I had no doubt that our use of the Internet andother communication networks would continue to grow and evolve, and that threats from hackers, criminals and even other governments would grow and evolve with it. I probably underestimated the threat,” Rep. Lipinski said. “I believe that we face the possibility of a cyber ‘Pearl Harbor’ that could destroy America’s military and economic security. We have already seen the loss of countless jobs through cyber espionage and we face – and thankfully, so far, have repelled – much worse attacks every day. It is now more important than ever that we get this legislation across the finish line and onto the President’s desk.”The legislation passed the House in 2012 and 2010 with overwhelming bipartisan support. The bill:Improves coordination in government, providing for a strategic plan to assess the cybersecurity risk and guide the overall direction of federal cyber research and development. Updates the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST) responsibilities to develop security standards to harden our federal networks and processes for agencies to follow.Establishes a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development, improve training of cyber professionals.Continues much-needed cybersecurity research and development programs at the National Science Foundation and NIST. # # #
03.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) released the following statement after the President’s meeting with House Republicans:“Today President Obama spoke with the entire House Republican Conference for the first time in over two years and I am cautiously encouraged by what I heard from him. The President's acknowledgment that we must reform entitlements in order to significantly cut spending represents a commitment to tackling our exploding debt. Entitlements are the biggest drivers of our spending and must be reformed to bring spending under control. I urge the President to use hispolitical capital to work with the Democratically controlled Senate on a responsible plan contrary to its latest proposal that raises taxes more than it cuts spending.” # # #
03.12.2013	Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) released the following statement on Rep. Paul Ryan’s budget proposal, released today:"Rep. Paul Ryan’s budget is bold and responsible. For too long Washington, D.C. has spent freely without any concern for the future generations who will inevitably have to pick up the tab. This plan balances the budget within 10 years without raising taxes and it reforms entitlements in order to sustain them. The President says he wants to work with Congress to address our direfinances and I hope he will. It is time for both chambers of Congress and the President to meaningfully tackle our nearly $17 trillion debt. Only in Washington does balancing a budget in a decade get criticized for trying to do too much, too fast. The families and small businesses throughout my district live on a budget and they expect the stewards of their hard-earned tax dollars to do the same."# # #Link to Fical Year 2014 Budget Plan
03.08.2013	Statement by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) on the latest unemployment figures of 7.7%:"This administration's policies aren't working and today's jobs report continues to show too many people without work and whose situations become more dire by the month. Reducing government spending, cuttingtaxes and giving our small businesses certainty are proven remedies for a sputtering economy."Next week the President is expected to address House Republicans for the first time in over two years. It is my hope he comes to us with realistic proposals and willing to roll up his sleeves and work."# # #
03.05.2013	"I am hopeful that after almost a decade and a half of Hugo Chavez’s disastrous reign over the citizens of Venezuela, today offers a new opportunity for the people of that country. The United States desires a peaceful and cooperative relationship with the government of Venezuela, rather than the demagoguery and provocation of tensions that has characterized Venezuelan geopolitics since Chavez took power in 1999. We know that the people of Venezuela do not desire an axis with Iran and a continuation of the same closed economic policies and erosion of civil liberties marked by the Chavez era. The United States should be very cautious about relations with Chavez’s successor but remain committed to advocating for change that reflects the desire of Venezuelans to be free and prosperous."Congressman McCaul is Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee and is a senior member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, serving on the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee.###
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, re-introduced legislation today calling on the Department of State to formally designate the Iranian Revolutionary Guard's Qods Force (IRGC-QF) as a foreign terrorist organization. This long-standing priority of Chairman McCaul was also included in a second piece of legislation introduced today by Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce.Chairman McCaul's Qods Force Terrorist Designation Act would allow prosecutors to bring new charges against anyone providing “material support or resources” to the IRGC-QF. That includes money, ID, lodging, training, weapons, transportation, etc. The penalty for providing support is up to 15 years to life in prison on top of any other criminal charges. In addition, any foreign member of the Qods Force can be deported for no other reason than for being a member and banks must freeze any funds tied to FTOs.The Nuclear Iran Prevention Act, introduced by Chairman Royce and cosponsored by Chairman McCaul, was introduced on the heels of Rep. McCaul’s legislation.“It is time to call Iran’s Qods Force what it is: a foreign terrorist organization," Chairman McCaul said. "This designation is long overdue and I applaud Chairman Royce and Ranking Member Engel for heeding my long-standing call to aggressively target the Qods Force as part of a comprehensive sanctions strategy against the Iranian regime. For too long the U.S. has not taking the threat of the IRGC-QF seriously and so I hope Congress will act swiftly to do what the administration hasn’t.”Iran’s Qods Force is behind some of the deadliest terrorist attacks of the past three decades, including the killing of American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, the 1996 Khobar Towers bombing in Saudi Arabia which killed 19 American military personnel, the 1994 attack on the AMIA Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires, the 1983 and 1984 bombings on the U.S. Embassy and annex in Beirut, and the 1983 bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut, killing 299 American and French servicemen.Rep. Michael McCaul is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security.###
02.27.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) today sent a letter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton demanding details about the release of illegal immigrants from U.S. detention centers. The letter can be found here, and the text of the letter is as follows:Dear Director Morton:I am concerned about the recent announcement by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to release a large number of detained persons. This decision reflects the lack of resource prioritization within the Department of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement and is indicative of the Department’s weak stance on national security.Congress mandated and provided resources to maintain 34,000 bed spaces for illegal immigrant detainees. As of last week, ICE reported 30,773 spaces filled, in clear violation of statute. I am also concerned that these releases were undertaken without notification to the appropriate Congressional oversight committees.To better understand the details of these releases, I request you provide the following information, not later than March 6, 2013, relative to individuals already released, pending release, or forecast for release under this new policy:· Total number of individuals released;· Total number identified for release;· Specific timeline and dates for future releases;· Geographic breakdown of where detainees have been and will be released;· For each individual, the specific reason for their initial detention· For each individual, the amount of time that they had been detained; and· For each individual, the specific monitoring and tracking actions taken to maintain positive accountability of each person.Your prompt attention to this matter is appreciated.###
02.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding reports that the Administration is releasing detainees due to sequestration.Chairman McCaul: “The unprecedented step by DHS to release detainees awaiting deportation proceedings en masse from immigration detention centers shows that the Administration does not plan on negotiating with Congress to avoid the sequester. It is instead using it as an excuse to achieve its desired goal of shifting money away from detentions and returning to a de facto catch-and-release policy. Last year the Administration sought to decrease the amount of detention space by $53 million and Congress denied its request in the interest of the safety of the American people. “Releasing several hundred individuals will save millions, but is still a small percentage of what DHS must cut if we go into sequestration. While cutting spending is crucial, letting potentially dangerous detainees out of federal custody is not a responsible option. Last year ICE spent $648 million on headquarters, management and administration. A reduction in its bloated administrative budget, which includes worldwide conferences costing millions of dollars, would cover the cost of keeping these detainees in federal custody.“This mass release of individuals currently in U.S. custody clearly demonstrates the Administration's irresponsible approach to not only fiscal policy, but national security.”###
02.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding Secretary Napolitano’s State of Homeland Security address this morning.Chairman McCaul: “Over the past decade the Department of Homeland Security has made great strides in protecting our country by executing an unprecedented consolidation of far-reaching agencies in response to the tragedies on September 11, 2001. This consolidation has had many management challenges, and our oversight has and will continue to root out duplication and mismanagement to help DHS meet those challenges. In today’s State of Homeland Security speech, Secretary Napolitano outlined many of our objectives, however what we need now are strategies and solutions using what we have learned in the past 10 years – many of which the Department still lacks.“I am pleased that Secretary Napolitano stressed the need to implement new technologies, such as sensor surveillance technology to better protect our borders. However, the Department still lacks a national strategy to gain operational control of our borders based on useable metrics that provide outcomes, rather than continuing to take an inaccurate measurement of security based solely on the number of resources or apprehensions. These legitimate measurable outcomes must be a prerequisite to immigration reform. While the Secretary implied that our security measures are keeping pace with evolving threats, we know that agencies like TSA have a long way to go to fully implement risk-based screening procedures. “Secretary Napolitano rightly acknowledged the far reaching impacts of cybersecurity for the American people, and that the Department has moved to enhance its ability to respond to cyber threats. However, the Department needs the help of Congress to fully confront the threats against our critical infrastructure. The Chinese military is targeting our gas lines and power grids. Failing to give DHS the power to work with public and private partners to thwart these attacks, could have disastrous consequences for our country.“Today our homeland faces numerous and diverse threats from all corners of the world and from within our own borders. Until our borders, airports and networks are better secured, Americans will remain at risk. Addressing national risks takes national strategies, not ad hoc programs, and 10 years after its creation, it is time for DHS to deliver these plans to the American people.”###
02.19.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) toured the Arizona-Mexico border on Monday with Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Chairman Tom Carper (D-DE). The Chairmen's respective committees have oversight jurisdiction of the Department of Homeland Security, which is responsible for securing America's borders. The bipartisan, bicameral visit included meetings with a variety of stakeholders in Tucson and Douglas, AZ, including DHS officials, local law enforcement, border mayors, and local ranchers and farmers.Chairman McCaul: “Gaining operational control of our borders is not optional; it is a prerequisite to immigration reform and the only way to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. Our men and women charged with protecting the sovereignty of our nation will only gain operational control of our borders with a national strategy based on outcomes. We cannot measure progress based solely on resources and arrests without knowing the number that cross our borders undetected. Redeploying advanced surveillance technology used in Iraq and Afghanistan will give our law enforcement the big picture they need to allow for a new metric to define progress. "These are the guiding principles for legislation I plan to introduce to compel the Department of Homeland Security to create and implement a strategy that includes measurable progress. Those of us from border states have long understood this need. The fact that Chairman Carper has designated border security as a priority for his committee makes me optimistic that the bipartisan political will exists to finally accomplish this goal."###
02.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding the President’s Cybersecurity Executive Order, announced at tonight’s State of the Union Address, as well as Congress’ renewed efforts to pass essential legislation to establish a whole-of-government framework for cybersecurity. This month, the House Homeland Security Committee will hold a hearing on the Executive Order to examine its implications for the public and private sectors.Chairman McCaul: “I am pleased that the President’s Executive Order establishes the Department of Homeland Security as having a lead role in cybersecurity—to rapidly disseminate both unclassified and classified cyber threat reports, to strengthen public-private partnerships and to coordinate national protection of our critical infrastructure. However, I am concerned that the order could open the door to increased regulations that would stifle innovation, burden businesses, and fail to keep pace with evolving cyber threats. Our first priority must be ‘do no harm’.“The executive branch also lacks constitutional authority possessed by Congress to provide the necessary liability protections that industry needs to freely share threat information with the federal governmentin a joint effort.Without protections and incentives to adopt industry-led best practices, such programs will be ineffective and carry consequences for entities that choose to participate.“Legislation expected to be introduced by Rep. Mike Rogers and Rep. DutchRuppersberger helps to facilitate this partnership between the public and private sector and provides the necessary protections. I am confident that our ongoing dialogue with industry as well as our colleagues in the Senate will yield common ground and help pave the way to pass essential legislation to establish a whole-of-government strategy for cybersecurity that is critical to both our economic and national security.“Additionally, I plan to introduce legislation to enhance coordination between the private sector and government in order to protect our critical infrastructure including communications networks, information technology, pipelines, dams, and transportation systems. “A key component of a whole-of-government cybersecurity strategy involves DHS’s role,which is to coordinate the national protection, prevention, mitigation of and recovery from cyber incidents. The Department has been building its capability to protect us from cyber attacks, and it will be a priority of this Committee to help it continue to do so.” ###
02.06.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) today announced that next week he will lay out a framework for gaining operational control of our borders.Chairman McCaul: “Americans have seen that promises of border security are empty unless they are enacted before changes to our immigration system. This Committee bears the responsibility of ensuring that border security is a prerequisite to immigration reform.“As part of my agenda, next week I will lay out a framework for legislation to gain operational control of our borders. It is this Committee’s duty to oversee the Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs and Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection, and we must ensure they cohesively develop a long overdue comprehensive plan to secure our borders.“The Administration has made clear that unless we force it to take border security seriously, immigration reform would occur without the security component. Until we have operational control of our borders, we will continue to be vulnerable to terrorists, drug cartels and criminal aliens who enter the United States undetected.”###
02.05.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) released the following statement regarding the need for immigration reforms to be contingent upon securing our borders. Chairman McCaul will travel this week to the Port of Los Angeles/Long Beach to review maritime border security operations, and next week will hold a hearing to examine emerging threats to the homeland and lay out goals for securing our borders.Chairman McCaul: “Today’s House Judiciary Committee hearing began the official conversation in Congress on immigration reform. While we understand the need to fix our immigration system, we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. The 1986 immigration reform did not stop the flow of illegal immigrants. Today, gaining operational control of our borders is not optional: it is the first step in this process.“Every day, everything from humans to illicit drugs are smuggled across our borders. While the Administration claims it has spent more funds to secure the border than ever before, the fact remains that the Department of Homeland Security still does not have a comprehensive plan to secure the border that includes a reasonable definition of operational control we can measure. Only by implementing a strategy with such metrics can we prevent repeating this debate ten years from now.”###
01.23.2013	"This is a first step in a long-term commitment to cut spending. The legislation we passed today pays the bills we owe and obligates the Senate to finally pass a budget or forego their pay. It ultimately will allow us to tackle our spending problems through the budget process instead of continuing to extend the same irresponsible spending levels a few months at a time for years to come." # # #
01.21.2013	"There is no greater symbol of the strength of our democracy than the peaceful transition or continuance of power that we too often take for granted. Today I have renewed hope for America's future, and hope that President Obama will use his second term as an opportunity to work with Congress to solve the greatest challenges we face. No challenge is too great for the United States."# # #
01.18.2013	"My heart goes out to all of the hostages and especially the American citizens involved in this heinous terrorist attack that has unfolded in Algeria. The arm of Al Qaeda's terror network in North Africa has now reached into my home state. Mr. Frederick Buttaccio, a resident of Katy, TX, which I have represented my entire congressional career, is among the victims. "Al Qaeda in North Africa is a security threat we cannot afford to underestimate. This region is the next frontier in the War on Terror. The mission of these Islamist extremists to kill Americans and disrupt our way of life has not changed, and our efforts to defend the homeland, both at home and abroad, must reflect this reality. "I am continuing to monitor the developments on the ground in Algeria and will continue to pray for all of those involved."# # #
01.15.2013	"Today I voted in favor of direct FEMA assistance to the people of New York and New Jersey recovering from Hurricane Sandy. I also voted against a separate bill that ballooned over $33 billion beyond the true emergency and immediate needs of the region, including $188 million for an Amtrak extension project, $135million to improve weather forecasting, and $50 million in tree planting subsidies. It is unfortunate that Congress exploited this crisis to spend taxpayer dollars on resources and programs not directly related to the devastation."# # #
01.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 8 as amended by the Senate:“At the end of the day I cannot support legislation that increases taxes $41 for every dollar of cuts. This bill only serves to bring more money into the Treasury. It completely avoids dealing with the spending problem, which is the root of our country's economic crisis.”# # #
12.13.2012	Iran Already Feeling the EffectsWASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate gave final passage to legislation authored by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), which restricts international shipping classification societies from providing inspection services of cargo ships belonging to Iran. The Ethical Shipping Inspection Act, included as an amendment to H.R. 2838, the U.S. Coast Guard authorization bill (page 59), makes international classification societies, which perform the inspections, choose between doing business with the United States or countries designated as State Sponsors of Terrorism. The legislation now goes to President Obama for his signature."Until now, our laws did not preclude these foreign-based organizations from simultaneouslyrepresenting the U.S. government and the governments of State Sponsors of Terrorism,” said Rep. McCaul, the incoming Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee. "An organization representing both the United States and Iran clearly runs contradictory to our national security interests.”In anticipation of this measure, last month the Chinese Classification Society (CCS) announced it would discontinue inspections of Iranian vessels in order to avoid financial consequences that would result from U.S. government sanctions and pending Congressional action. CCS became the last of 13 major international classification companies to stop providing such services to Iranian ships.The U.S. Coast Guard relies on these recognized marine classification societies to serve as agents of our government in conducting more than 3,500 statutory inspections a year on U.S.-flagged merchant vessels. These inspections verify that a vessel is in compliance with both international maritime conventions and domestic legal requirements for safety and the environment. These organizations operate around the globe and establish standards for the design, construction and maintenance of ships, oil platforms, and other marine structures. The American Bureau of Shipping, headquartered in Houston, is the only U.S.-based recognized organization. # # #
12.07.2012	"On this day, which President Franklin Roosevelt said "will live in infamy," we take time to remember one of the first attacks against our homeland. Like the 9/11 attacks, civilians lost their lives at Pearl Harbor. Our nation was at war and brave men and women were suddenly thrust into action to defend America."My father, who flew B-17 missions over Nazi Germany, was a part of that "greatest generation" whose courage and resolve preserved our freedoms and way of life. It is with gratitude that today I salute all those who made great sacrifices to defend democracy at home and our interests abroad."
12.03.2012	“My thoughts and prayers are with the United States Coast Guard and the family of Chief Petty Officer and Chief Boatswain's Mate Terrell Horne, who was killed in the line of duty protecting our homeland. Chief Horne, along with several other Coast Guard personnel were engaged in an at-sea interdiction off the coast of California on Sunday when the small inflatable boat they were operating became the target of the suspected smugglers, who rammed the small Coast Guard craft. Whether it's on our land borders or in our waters, this tragic event is a reminder of the dangers our brave men and women in uniform face every day protecting the homeland, and the sacrifices of their families.”# # #
12.02.2012	MEXICO CITY – Incoming Homeland Security Committee Chairman Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX-28) expressed encouragement about Mexico's movement toward security and economic prosperity following meetings with newly elected President Enrique Pena Nieto and members of his cabinet.From discussions with both President Pena Nieto and Interior Minister Miguel Angel Osorio Chong, Nieto’s top security advisor, it appears Mexico will emphasize the need for special operations forces, coordinated intelligence and shared technologies in its war against the drug cartels, which have killed nearly 60,000 people in Mexico since 2006. The strategy will also employ the unprecedented targeting of banks complicit with cartel money laundering.Reps. McCaul and Cuellar also expressed optimism that Pemex, Mexico’s state-run petroleum company, will pursue contracting with private oil and gas companies to develop that country’s natural resources and its interest in a gas pipeline between Texas and Mexico, potentially strengthening energy security for both countries."I am pleased with President Nieto's cabinet choices and the new administration's commitments toward security and economic prosperity,” said Congressman McCaul. “I will continue to make sure our neighbor to the south moves forward toward these goals.""I have confidence that Mexico will continue working with the United States collaboratively on issues that affect both countries, including border security," said Congressman Cuellar. "From what I have gathered in listening to Mexico's new President Enrique Pena Nieto, he is willing to continue to work to defeat the drug cartels, and at the same time, is looking for ways to help grow the economies of both countries."The discussions coincided with the inauguration of President Pena Nieto in Mexico City. Congressmen McCaul and Cuellar delivered a unified, bipartisan message to the new administration that the United States is committed to continuing to assist Mexico's war against the cartels but that Mexico must do its part to secure the border.The delegation, led by Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX) and which also included Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO), was designated by Speaker John Boehner to represent the United States at the inauguration. In addition, the delegation met with Mexico's Treasury Secretary, who outlined a plan for fiscal discipline, balanced budgets and no debt; and the U.S.-Mexico Chamber of Commerce to discuss trade and our relative economies.# # #
11.28.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement after the House Republican Conference ratified his recommendation as Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security for the 113th Congress:“I want to extend my gratitude to Speaker Boehner and my Republican colleagues for placing their confidence in me to be the next Chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security and I look forward to leading this distinguished panel when the 113th Congress convenes in January."Our nation faces a variety of homeland security challenges including international and domestic terrorism, securing our borders and preventing cyber attacks. Additionally it is the responsibility of our Committee to provide oversight to ensure the Department of Homeland Security is managed with efficiency and integrity so that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely, that leadership is accountable and that DHS' rank and file are adequately supported to accomplish their important mission of protecting the homeland. “I look forward to working with the administration. I also look forward to collaborating with my fellow committee chairs on issues of mutual jurisdiction, and partnering with our community and industry stakeholders who count on the federal government to provide oversight and implement sensible policy. I would like to commend Chairman Peter King for his leadership. His contributions to homeland security in the post 9/11-world have been invaluable and I look forward to continuing to work with him.”Congressman McCaul presently serves as Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee. Prior to Congress he served as Chief of Counter-Terrorism in the U.S. Attorney's Office, Western District of Texas, and as a federal prosecutor in the Department of Justice Public Integrity Section.# # #
11.27.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement after the House Republican Steering Committee voted on its chairmanship recommendations for the 113th Congress: “I want to extend my gratitude to the Republican Steering Committee for placing their confidence in me to be the next Chairman of the House Committee on HomelandSecurity. I look forward to the Republican Conference’s ratification of my selection. "Our nation faces a variety of homeland security challenges including international and domestic terrorism, securing our borders and preventing cyber attacks. Additionally it is the responsibility of our Committee to provide oversight to ensure the Department of Homeland Security is managed with efficiency and integrity so that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely, that leadership is accountable and that DHS' rank and file are adequately supported to accomplish their important mission of protecting the homeland. “I look forward to working with the administration. I also look forward to collaborating with my fellow committee chairs on issues of mutual jurisdiction, and partnering with our community and industry stakeholders who count on the federal government to provide oversight and implement sensible policy. I would like tocommend Chairman Peter King for his leadership. His contributions to homeland security in the post 9/11-world have been invaluable and I look forward to continuing to work with him.” Congressman McCaul presently serves as Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee. Prior to Congress he served as Chief of Counter-Terrorism in the U.S. Attorney's Office, Western District of Texas, and as a federal prosecutor in the Department of Justice Public Integrity Section.# # #
10.19.2012	TOMBALL, TX – Veterans, U.S. Postal Service administrators and community leaders joined Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) Thursday in officially changing the name of the Tomball post office to the Tomball Veterans Post Office. Renaming the facility at 122 North Holderieth Boulevard was made possible by Rep. McCaul’s legislation, H.R. 2660, which the president signed into law in May.“America’s war veterans are our true heroes,” said Congressman McCaul. “Their sacrifices and those of their families make possible the liberties too often taken for granted. This is one small way for us to keep their service fresh in our minds and recognize what they have done for our great nation.”Congressman McCaul, whose father flew 35 bombing missions over Nazi Germany in World War II, was inspired to introduce the legislation after U.S. Marine Corporal Jeffrey Johnson of Tomball was killed in action in Afghanistan in 2010. An estimated 30,000 people lined the streets of Tomball paying respects to CPL Johnson during his procession from Hooks Airport to the funeral home. “It was the greatest display of patriotism I have ever seen,” said Rep. McCaul.“We will honor our veterans by having the Tomball Post Office building permanently display the dedication plaque that bears that name,” USPS Houston District Manager William Mitchell said of the facility’s ‘Veterans’ designation. “I hope that in doing so, future generations will be inspired to live each day in the service of one another.”Among those joining Rep.McCaul was retired U.S. Marine Jerry Reed, President and Executive Director for Operation Military Embrace, Inc., a Tomball-based military-support organization that provides assistance to our wounded military in all branches of service.“This dedication is a reminder to all Americans who enjoy liberty that their freedoms were secured at a veryhigh price,” Reed said. “Those of us who make up the officers, directors and volunteers of Operation Military Embrace and who serve our seriously injured veterans and their families are reminded of the price of freedom paid forward by our veterans every day."Reed is among the two-dozen veterans from the 10th Congressional District who have participated in the Veterans History Project at the Library of Congress. Rep. McCaul’s office videotaped interviews with veterans so future generations may better understand the realities of war.# # #USPS Houston District Manager William Mitchell and Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) unveil the plaque that will be displayed outside the renamed Tomball Veterans Post Office.
10.10.2012	Announces Investigation into Use of DHS Counterterrorism Resources AbroadWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations and member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee, called on Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to hold senior State Department officials accountable for failures to answer calls for help from U.S. personnel in Libya. This follows a House Oversight Committee hearing on Wednesday which found serious deficiencies in the State Department’s security of diplomatic officers and Embassy property in Libya months before the terrorist attack on the embassy compound in Benghazi on September 11th.“The findings from today’s hearing confirm the Administration abjectly failed to protect our diplomats and employees in Libya after repeated pleas for assistance,” Rep. McCaul said. “Contrary to Ambassador Rice and others’ initial assertions that this was a spontaneous uprising, these latest details prove this terrorist attack was successful because of the State Department's inadequate response to numerous security warnings. I respectfully ask Secretary Clinton to take immediate action to hold those senior members of her staff responsible for these poor security decisions.”Congressman McCaul also announced his request to U.S. Comptroller General Gene Dodaro, head of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO)—the investigative arm of Congress, to probe into the Department of Homeland Security’s international counterterrorism activities including how U.S. embassies leverage DHS staff posted overseas and how the Department allocates resources to counterterrorism efforts abroad.“The security of the American homeland is linked to international security as vulnerabilities in one part of the world can quickly become security threats in another," Chairman McCaul stated in his June letter to Comptroller General Dodaro. "The Subcommittee is concerned that DHS’s international counterterrorism activities and expertise may not be properly accounted for, coordinated with other agencies, and targeted toward advancing U.S. counterterrorism interests abroad.” GAO’s investigation is underway at Chairman McCaul’s request.Link to GAO letter.# # #
10.05.2012	Warns Only Congress Can Grant Liability Protections, Incentives to IndustryWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, urged President Obama to forego issuing an executive order addressing the nation’s cybersecurity and instead work with congressional leaders to reach an agreement on critical legislation leading up to the 113th Congress, which convenes in January. In a letter to the president, Congressman McCaul, who co-founded and co-chairs the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus, emphasized the need to assure industry of liability protections and incentives, which are critical to facilitate information sharing between the private sector and government, but which the executive branch does not have the authority to create. He also stressed the importance of including industry in crafting cybersecurity framework.Without protections and incentives, “a voluntary program intended to strengthen communication between the government and the private sector will be ineffective and carryconsequences for entities that choose to participate,” the letter states. “Operators of critical infrastructure and vast networks of intellectual property are in the best position to understand the threats they face on a daily basis and whatsolutions are most effective. Excluding industry from this process will result in subjecting a large swath of America’s job creators to a program or regulations that it had no voice in crafting,” Rep. McCaul continues in the letter.On Wednesday Congressman McCaul told high tech leaders gathered for a Big Data conference on Capitol Hill that it is “fundamentally important” to include stakeholders in discussions on cybersecurity legislation.Text of Rep. McCaul’s letter (linked above) follows: October 5, 2012 President Barack ObamaThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NWWashington, DC 20502 Dear Mr. President:It is my understanding that your Administration is preparing to issue an executive order addressing cybersecurity. I share your disappointment that the Senate failed in August to pass cybersecurity legislation and, like you, I remain concerned that our cyber defenses are vulnerable to an attack. However, I strongly believe that only through legislation passed by Congress can we effectively address the complex legalchallenges surrounding this important issue. Therefore, I ask that you respect the legislative process and work with Congress to address cybersecurity matters.Only Congress, not the executive branch, possesses the authority to create meaningful liability protections or incentives, which are necessary for theprivate sector to participate in an effective information sharing system. Both liability protections and incentives are a crucial part of any information sharing partnership between the private sector and government. Without those provisions, a voluntary program intended to strengthen communication between the government and the privatesector will be ineffective and carry consequences for entities that choose to participate. Further, it would take legislation to create a more robust cybersecurity workforce. It is critical that industry be involved in crafting any meaningful cybersecurity framework. Operators of critical infrastructure and vast networks of intellectual property are in the best position to understand the threats they face on a daily basis and whatsolutions are most effective. Excluding industry from this process will result in subjecting a large swath of America’s job creators to a program or regulations that it had no voice in crafting. The government should form a partnership with private sector stakeholders to better understand the challenges they face and how the government can aid them in overcoming those challenges.I respectfully request that your administration devote more resources to engage and negotiate with members in anticipation of taking up the issue of cybersecurity in the 113th Congress. Instead of “going it alone” in the form of an executive order, I suggest that the administration reengage with Congress to work towards a consensus on cybersecurity. This was a recommendation by the CSIS Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency, which I co-chaired. Bypassing the Congress will only serve to muddle the legislative process and delay passage of legislation, which instead should be among our top priorities when we reconvene.I would like to offer my help with facilitating a dialogue between Congress and your administration. We can both agree it is imperative that we strengthen our cyber defense andprotect Americans from cyber threats. If you would like to discuss this issue further you can reach me at 202-225-2401. Sincerely, Michael T. McCaul Member of Congress
10.03.2012	"Tonight's debate demonstrated the vastly different paths Americans have to choose from this election. Governor Romney commanded the discussion about our economy and job creation. He clearly articulated his plan to grow the economy while lowering tax rates compared to the president's policies that raise taxes on small businesses to pay for increased spending. The need for business experience in the White House could not be more clear."# # #
09.25.2012	“President Obama’s speech at the United Nations still did not call the assassination of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens what it truly was: a planned terrorist attack against the United States on the anniversary of 9/11. The president's repeated references to the video as the cause for the premeditated murder of our diplomats only serve to undermine the truth. The president's failure to immediately deliver a strong message that these actions will not be tolerated, and his failure to meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu and other world leaders at this critical time, only weakens our position in the region and emboldens those who still wish to do us harm."# # #
09.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, called on Department of HomelandSecurity Secretary Janet Napolitano to immediately release information on costs associated with Department conferences. Chairman McCaul requested this information in April. After more than 100 business days, DHS has yet to provide it to the Subcommittee.“The silence from your Department on this issue is deafening,” Chairman McCaul states in a letter to Secretary Napolitano. “The Department’s dereliction in providing this information raises a simple question: what does DHS have to hide in its participation in these conferences? The American people’s faith in government was severely shaken when the Inspector General at the General Services Administration reported egregious waste and abuse of taxpayer dollars. Our request, made on behalf of the taxpayers for whom we serve, is intended to ensure such a culture does not exist at DHS. Unfortunately, your Department’s failure to provide our requested information leaves this question very much in doubt.”Earlier this year, scandal plagued the General Services Administration (GSA) for egregious waste and abuse of taxpayer dollars at its conferences. Rep. McCaul’s request was intended to investigate the extent to which a similar culture of waste and misuse of power exists at DHS. DHS is the third largest federal department with an annual budget of nearly $60 billion.The letter to Secretary Napolitano# # #
09.14.2012	VIDEO- McCaul: “Why didn’t anybody contact Ft Hood?”WASHINGTON, D.C. - The inability to rapidly share information, poorly trained FBI threat analysts, and the failure to exhaust all intelligence sharing options led to the 2009 terrorist attack at Fort Hood, TX which killed 13 and injured 42 others. The former director of the National Counterterrorism Center and the deputy chairman of the Webster Commission outlined the shortcomings before a Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations hearing that allowed Army Maj. Nidal Hassan to slip through the cracks without a formal investigation."The legal landscape is a myriad of conflicting statutes and it is extremely difficult to know how information can be shared," testified former NCTC director Mike Leiter. While he praises great improvements within the Intelligence Community and many success stories since 9/11, Leiter said "the pace at which (intelligence sharing) discussions occur borders on the biblical." The NCTC classified the mass shooting as a terrorist attack one week after it took place.The FBI's Washington Field Office, which was warned of red flags including email exchanges between Maj. Hassan and al Qaeda leader Anwar al Awlaki months prior to the shooting, elected not to launch an investigationinto Maj. Hassan. Most of the 18 emails were not shared within the FBI. The Webster Report concluded FBI Washington waited until its deadline, 90 days, to analyze evidence. Leiter testified it was ultimately analyzed by "an officer who did not have a strong understanding of the signs of radicalization." "There was no FBI policy on the assignment of these types of leads or taking action on these types of leads," testified Douglas Winters, deputy chairman of the Webster Commission which conducted an independent investigation into the Fort Hood shooting.Once the FBI's San Diego Field Office, which initiated the Washington inquiry, was told there would be no investigation, San Diego failed to pursue other avenues including directly warning the Department of Defense of a possible threat."They have DOD employees on these (FBI) task forces. Why didn’t one of those at least contact Ft. Hood? Why didn’t anybody contact Ft. Hood and say, "You know what, there's an issue here. You’ve got a problem. There's a guy that could actually kill somebody. And I don’t think any of you really have the answer to that. I don't know the answer to that," Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), the Subcommittee Chairman, told the witnesses.The Webster Report outlined several missed opportunities by the Army to report Hassan as a threat, even though he was described by fellow soldiers as a "ticking time bomb". Professor Irshad Manji, Director of the Moral Courage Project at New York University and a self-proclaimed reformist Muslim, testified she is skeptical as to why neither the Army nor the FBI was willing to report Maj. Hassan and share information."I think it would be fair to ask if political correctness also crept into the FBI. Why did the San Diego officer not stand up when it became clear to him or her that an obviously unsettling lead was not going to be acted upon?" Professor Manji asked.# # #
09.13.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced a House Resolution this evening calling on President Obama to suspend aid to Egypt and Libya until the governments of those countries formally apologize to the United States, condemn Tuesday’s attacks at U.S. diplomatic posts, and secure the safety of American diplomats consistent with the 1961 and 1963 Vienna Conventions.Rep. McCaul, Chairman of Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations and a member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee, introduced the legislation following the brutal attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, which killed Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three Americans serving with him, and the raid on the U.S. Embassy in Cairo in which the American flag was desecrated. The United States has provided approximately $1.5 billion per year combined to Egypt and Libya.“It is inexcusable that the Governments of Libya and Egypt did not provide for theadequate protection of foreign diplomats, embassies, and consulates,” the resolution states. It describes the events as “a direct attack against United States interests.”The text of the House Resolution is as follows:Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives with respect to the attacks on United States diplomats in Libya and Egypt.IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Mr. MCCAUL submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on __________________.RESOLUTIONExpressing the sense of the House of Representatives with respect to the attacks on United States diplomats in Libya and Egypt.Whereas on September 11, 2012, United States Ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens, was brutally and savagely murdered during a violent attack on the United States consulate in Benghazi, Libya;Whereas three other United States citizens were also killed during the attack on the United States consulate in Benghazi, including Sean Smith, a foreignservice information management officer;Whereas the attack in Benghazi followed protests at the United States embassy in Cairo, Egypt, on the same day;Whereas on September 11, 2012, protestors climbed the walls of the United States embassy in Cairo, Egypt, and desecrated the American flag, the ultimate symbol of the United States;Whereas a spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt responded to the attacks on the United States embassy in Cairo, Egypt, by saying that the United States should do a better job of protecting Islam;Whereas it is inexcusable that the Governments of Libya and Egypt did not provide for the adequate protection of foreign diplomats, embassies, and consulates; andWhereas the attacks on the United States embassy in Cairo, Egypt, and the assassination of the United States ambassador to Libya is a direct attack against United States interests: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That it is the sense of the House of Representatives that until the Governments of Libya and Egypt formally apologize to the United States and condemn in the strongest possible terms the savage attacks on United States diplomats in Benghazi, Libya, andCairo, Egypt, and assure the safety of United States diplomats in Libya andEgypt, consistent with the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations andthe 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations,the President should immediately suspend all United States foreign assistance to the governments of such countries. # # #
09.12.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations and member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee, called for the immediate closing of U.S. embassies and consulates in Egypt and Libya, withdraw of U.S. government personnel from both countries, suspension of aid to those countries, and expulsion of their diplomats from the United States. This follows the attacks on the American embassy in Cairo and our consulate in Benghazi that killed the U.S. Ambassador to Libya and members of his staff on Tuesday.“The United States needs to send a clear signal to other countries that this barbaric behavior will not be tolerated,” Rep. McCaul said. “Our embassies abroad are an extension of our homeland. Our personnel serving in embassies are U.S. citizens on diplomatic missions. To attack our homeland and kill our citizens is outrageous, deplorable and it must have severe consequences.”Congressman McCaul called for the suspension of foreign aid to both counties until the Libyan and Egyptian governments officially condemn the actions of the Islamic extremists who perpetrated the violence and demonstrate that they have reigned in Islamic extremists so that American diplomats will be safe in those countries. “It is time for this administration to end its timid foreign policy and suspendbeing an apologist for actions of the United States around the world. This administration needs to clearly convey that any further violence directed against our embassies will result in the use of force,” Rep. McCaul said.# # #
09.12.2012	"The Arab spring has turned into an Arab winter. The attacks on America's embassy and consulate and the assassination of our ambassador to Libya and his staff are acts of aggression against the United States that should be condemned in the strongest terms. The manner in which these events occurred is a disgrace to the American people, as was this administration's apologetic response that fails to defend our nation's liberties abroad. This serves as a reminder that while we have made progress in the war on terror, Americans remain in the cross hairs of terrorist regimes and others who prefer aggression over tolerance."# # #
09.07.2012	“I am pleased that this administration has finally headed the many calls in Congress to designate the Haqqani Network as a foreign terrorist organization. Haqqani is responsible for the brutal killing of hundreds of American soldiers in Afghanistan and for terrorizing the Afghan and Pakistani people. This designation should be followed by a thorough assessment of Haqqani's relationship with officials in the Pakistani government, where Haqqani has established safe havens. That is why I introduced H.R. 4110 in February of this year, to restrict assistance to Pakistan unless the Secretary of State certifies to Congress that the Government of Pakistan is not aiding, assisting, advising, or informing the Haqqani network in any capacity.”Congressman McCaul is Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee and serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
08.27.2012	Growing up in the age of the space race, I remember watching Neil Armstrong’s “one small step for man” and “one giant leap for mankind”. He was among the explorers of his day in the Apollo and Gemini programs who truly embodied the American spirit, and along with President Kennedy’s challenge to land a man on the moon, inspired a generation. At a time when society too frequently throws around such terms, Neil Armstrong truly was a pioneer and American hero. Four decades later I had the privilege to discuss the state of America’s space program with my childhood hero when he testified before the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. (See video) In response to my concern that eliminating NASA’s Constellation program would leave the United States dependent on other countries such as Russia to enter lower earth orbit for many years, jeopardize our national security and send a message to the world that the USA is no longer a dominant force in space exploration, Armstrong told me, “If for the next decade we have no access to space we will be viewed by people around the world as being a has been.”Armstrong also summarized that “NASA has been unable to articulate a master plan that excites the imagination and provides a semblance of predictability to the aerospace industry”. He continued, “For a country that has invested so much for so long to achieve a leadership position in space exploration, this condition is viewed by many as lamentably embarrassing and unacceptable.”While Neil Armstrong lived a very private life and rarely made a public appearance, our nation will miss his presence. As I told him during that May 2010 hearing, a thousand years from now no one will remember the names of any politician in Washington, but his name would still be known. VIDEO of McCaul-Armstrong testimony: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b31JS41NTyA&feature=relmfu
08.20.2012	“As a husband and father of five children, including four daughters, I find Rep. Akin’s remarks reprehensible and insulting. I denounce such offensive views in the strongest possible terms.”# # #
08.10.2012	Follows Fact-Finding Trip to Latin America Where Iran, Hezbollah Have Increased Presence and InfluenceWASHINGTON, D.C. – Iranian and Hezbollah terrorist cells in Latin America are a threat to retaliate against United States and Israeli interests in the western hemisphere in the event Israel launches an attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, emphasized the threat upon his return from a counter-terrorism fact-finding mission to Mexico and South America.“The threat of terrorism against Israel, the United States and our interests in the western hemisphere is as real as ever,” said Chairman McCaul, who led a bipartisan delegation to the region. “The presence of Iran and Hezbollah in Latin America, and their influence in the region, has increased dramatically. While these are primarily finance cells that fund terrorist operations in the Middle East, I believe they are capable of becoming operational in the event Israel attacks Iran’s nuclear facilities, and Iran retaliates.”The delegation met with government and security officials in Mexico, Colombia, Paraguay and Argentina, and in the South American tri-border region of Argentina, Paraguay and Brazil. Chairman McCaul expressed concern about discrepancies between various agencies regarding the threat level. Rep. McCaul believes the threat level is underreported.The tri-border region is home to an estimated 30,000 people of Middle East origin. Corruption throughout the region’s justice system prevents prosecution of suspects believed to be involved with lucrative money laundering operations that funnel an estimated two percent of revenue to Hezbollah operations in the Middle East.“With 40 percent of our exports going to the Americas, Latin America is not only our neighbor but also our close economic partner. Our exports to the Americas are growing faster than our trade with the rest of the world, so this relationship is one that is integral to the future of both our regions,” said Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security. “As the U.S.’s relationship with Latin America continues to grow and deepen, we must ensure that we are working together to confront security threats to our hemisphere and engaging in a partnership that addresses security needs as well as economic ones.” Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corp (IRGC) and its Qods Force, partnering with Hezbollah, are responsible for deadly attacks against the United States and our allies dating back to the bombing of the American embassy and Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983, as well as the AMIA Jewish Community Center bombing in Buenos Aires, Argentina in 1994. Iran’s plot last year to assassinate the Saudi Arabian ambassador in Washington also included plans to attack Israeli and Saudi embassies in Argentina. Evidence that the IRGC attempted to hire a member of a Mexican drug cartel to carry out the plot exposed the nexus between these Transnational Criminal Organizations and has heightened concerns that Iran and Hezbollah operatives could use cartel smuggling routes to enter the United States undetected.Earlier this year, James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence, predicted the possibility of attacks on American soil. Clapper testified that Iran’s leaders “have changed their calculus and are now more willing to conduct an attack in the United States in response to real or perceived U.S. actions that threaten the regime.”Chairman McCaul, who also serves on the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee, has introduced legislation that would designate the IRGC as a Foreign Terrorist Organization.Traveling with Congressman McCaul were Congressmen Cuellar, Tom Graves (R-GA), Jeff Duncan (R-SC) and Robert Turner (R-NY). # # #(L-R) Congressmen Tom Graves (R-GA), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Michael McCaul (R-TX); and James Thessin, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Paraguay on the Brazil-Paraguay border Friendship Bridge.Congressman McCaul shakes hands with Guillermo Borger, President of the AMIA Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in remembrance of the 1994 terrorist attack that destroyed the center. Congressmen Cuellar and Graves are at right.
08.01.2012	Issues Report on Flawed Acquisition Practices Costing Taxpayers Billions WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul’s DHS Accountability Act passed the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee, which he chairs, and will move toward a vote by the full committee. H.R. 5913 creates an independent, top-to-bottom examination of deficiencies in Department of Homeland Security leadership and management structure. The Act is a product of five oversight hearings examining widespread corruption, low morale, inefficiency and waste of taxpayer dollars, and comes ten yearssince the inception of DHS. It is co-sponsored by the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member, Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA).“I have doubts the Department can carry out its core mission of protecting thehomeland if the problems persist. These issues of corruption, waste, duplication, and abuse of power are all symptomatic of deeply rooted flaws in the department's management. I am committed to seeing DHS function with efficiency and this is a step forward,” Chairman McCaul said. Notable facts related to H.R. 5913:Creates an independent 8-member advisory panel appointed by the legislative and executive branches to assess DHS management structure and capabilitiesExcessive bureaucracy, waste, ineffectiveness and lack of transparency have hindered DHS operations and wasted taxpayer dollarsDHS acquisitions are identified as "high risk" by the Government Accountability Office, citing greater vulnerability to waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement. DHS is the third largest department in the Federal government with more than 200,000 employees and an annual budget of $60 billion. Prior to the markup, Chairman McCaul issued an investigative report, Initiatives Needed to Correct Weaknesses in the Department of Homeland Security’s Acquisition and Contracting Practices. The report revealed DHS continues the same flawed acquisition processes that over the last decade wasted billions of taxpayer dollars andjeopardized the Department’s ability to carry out its mission of protecting the homeland. The Department accounts for more than $150 billion in total major acquisition programs (in total lifecycle costs, which are the total costs of acquiring capabilities).Failed or flawed projects related to border and airport security are among the most costly examples, demonstrating a trend of haphazardly spending taxpayer dollars on projects that ultimately fail to achieve their objective. DHSAccountability Act of 2012Recent Key Findings of the Oversight SubcommitteeCORRUPTION & MISCONDUCTCombined in FY2011, CBP and ICE had 9,073 allegations of employee misconduct including 893 for corruption such as personnel collaborating with drug smugglers and filing fraudulent travel documents. CBP agents repeatedly working with drug trafficking organizations to smuggle guns and drugs through an airport. Approximate 5,800 complaints against CBP employees in FY2011 resulted in 730 investigations. Last year there were 403 arrests throughout DHS.TSA had 612 allegations of misconduct in FY'11. Dozens of officers have been fired for allowing thousands of pieces of luggage onto flights without proper screening and for taking bribes allowing passengers expedited security checks.Between October 2009 and September 2010 at Newark Liberty Airport, TSA screeners stole as much as $30,000 from unsuspecting passengers who were trying to get through security to board their plane. In Orlando, passengers had laptop computers stolen from their luggage. Airport security badges were found issued to employees who had not undergone a complete Security Threat Assessment. ACQUISITIONS MISMANAGEMENTThe DHS Inspector General, in a November 2011 report, concludes the Department has major challenges, including acquisition, information technology, grants, and finances.The GAO concludes many DHS management functions are high risk, including acquisitions, information technology, finances, human capital andintegration, all resulting in performance problems and mission delays. WASTED TAXPAYER DOLLARSDHS has failed to develop and acquire new technologies to address the various threats including border surveillance, screening equipment, and nuclear detection equipment. SBInet – the Secretary ended the original program after costing taxpayers nearly one billion dollars to monitor only 53 miles of the Southwest border.Failed due to the lack of effective program management, poorly defined program requirements, inaccurate cost estimations, limited access to expert guidance, and unavailable and unreliable performance data to make informative decisions.CBP wasted $69 million in purchasing steel to build border fences. It purchased more steel than needed, incurred additional storage costs, paid interest on late payments, and approved a higher priced subcontractor.ASP – DHS spent $230 million on the Advanced Spectroscopic Portal program before it was cancelled. ASP was designed to improve radiation and nuclear detection capabilities at ourseaports and land border crossings but failed due to inaccurate data and poor acquisition management, which resulted in underestimated costs and overstated benefits.INEFFICIENCYLast year, DHS collected about $230 million in fees from other agencies to pay for 2,500 facility risk assessments. However, DHS’s Federal Protective Service completed only four of those assessments. The agencies that paid for the service but got nothing in return ended up conducting their own risk assessments.EMPLOYEE MORALETwo federal surveys, Federal Viewpoints and Best Places to Work, found that DHS ranks 31 out of 33 federal organizations for best places to work. 37% of DHS's 200,000 employees believe senior leaders motivate them.37% are satisfied with their senior leaders' policies and practices. LEADERSHIPDHS has not prioritized the missions outlined in its key strategies, which may hinder its ability to effectively manage risks moving forward. Management challenges continue such as weaknesses in the acquisition oversight process, implementing human capital initiatives, and lack of financial data integration. Areas of duplication within the Department exist. # # #
08.01.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Department of Homeland Security, which accounts for more than $150 billion in total major acquisition programs, continues the same flawed acquisition processes that over the last decade wasted billions of taxpayerdollars and jeopardized the Department’s ability to carry out its mission of protecting the homeland. Failedor flawed projects related to border and airport security are among the most costly examples outlined in a new report by the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations & Management Subcommittee, demonstrating a trend of haphazardly spending taxpayer dollars on projects that ultimately fail to achieve their objective. Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the report prior to Wednesday’s 2:00pm markup of H.R. 5913, the DHS Accountability Act, which would launch an independent investigation of Department of Homeland Security management and leadership failures. SBInetDHS’s key border security technology program—the Secure Border Initiative Network (SBI-Net)—was ultimately cancelled in January 2011. The report indicates DHS did not adequately define requirements, thoroughly test technology, or properly oversee contractors. Poor management and oversight resulted in nearly $1 billion in wasted taxpayer dollars and costly delays to the deployment of technologies necessary to help secure the Southwest border.Sequel to SBInet in JeopardyThe Department is now pursuing a new initiative—the Arizona Border Surveillance Technology Plan—that utilizes some of the same technologies as SBI-Net. However, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has questioned DHS’s plan because it cannot justify the types of technologies required, how many units they need, what they will ultimately cost, or where to put them.CBP Steel PurchaseIn November 2011 the DHS Inspector General reported that Customs and Border Protection (CBP) spent about $310 million since 2008 to purchase and store steel in support of fencing for the Southwest border. However, CBP wasted about $70 million because it purchased more steel than was needed, paid interest on late payments, and approved a higher-priced subcontractor.TSA Full Body ScannersIn January 2012, GAO reported that the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) did not fully follow DHS acquisition policies when acquiring AdvancedImaging Technology (AIT)—commonly referred to as full body scanners for airport screening. As of May 2012, this resulted in the deployment of more than 670 machines to approximately 170 airports that could not meet initial requirements, which DHS had identified as necessary to protect the aviation system. DHS plans to deploy a total of 1,250 units, ultimately costing nearly $400 million.“DHS’s shortcomings in managing its acquisition programs have wasted taxpayer dollars and have led directly to the failure of programs necessary to protect the homeland,” said Chairman McCaul. “Our report identifies solutions to some of these issues. Without the Department’s sustained leadership and effective implementation, I am concerned we will continue to see waste of taxpayer dollars and inefficiencies that affect the ability of DHS to carry out its core mission.”Although DHS issued a policy containing elements of acquisition best practices, it neglected to hold programs accountable to that policy. The GAO reported in May 2012 this neglect occurred on a routine basis with the programs it reviewed. To date, DHS’s acquisitions program remains designated by GAO as “high risk”, with greater vulnerability to waste, fraud, abuse and corruption.The report is based on findings by GAO, the DHS Inspector General and by the Homeland Security Committee’s oversight activities during the 112th Congress, including five management hearings held in early 2012 by ChairmanMcCaul. Based on the findings, the report offers solutions including a department-wide process to prevent duplicative procurement by leveraging existing technologies. The Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations,and Management has also requested GAO further investigate the effectiveness of DHS’s acquisition and procurement programs.# # #
07.31.2012	H.R. 5913: The DHS Accountability Act of 2012WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Wednesday, August 1, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) will chair a markup of H.R. 5913, the DHS Accountability Act, creating an independent, top-to-bottom examination of deficiencies in Department of Homeland Security leadership and management structure. The Act is a product of five oversight hearings examining widespread corruption, low morale, inefficiency and waste of taxpayer dollars, and comes ten yearssince the inception of the DHS. It is co-sponsored by the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member, Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA).Notable facts related to H.R. 5913:Creates an independent8-member advisory panel appointed by the legislative and executive branches to assess DHS management structure and capabilities.Excessive bureaucracy, waste, ineffectivenessand lack of transparency have hindered DHS operations and wasted taxpayer dollars.Accountability Act of 2012 - Bill Text
07.25.2012	AUDIO/VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_OoI00RfHkWASHINGTON, D.C. – The director of the National Counterterrorism Center called the 2009 Fort Hood terrorist attack a "hard lesson learned" and stated the need to "do better". He specifically referenced the failure of the FBI to warn the Department of Defense of U.S. Army Major Nidal Hasan's email correspondence with al Qaedacleric Anwar al Awlaki, in which Hasan expressed justification for suicide bombings. "We need to continue to be vigilant to do better at spotting those types of indicators and sharing that information appropriately," NCTC Director Matthew Olsen responded to Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security oversight, during today's full Homeland Security Committee hearing."I think that failure to contact the DOD resulted in the deaths of 13 soldiers and next to 9/11 the biggest terrorist attack on American soil," Rep. McCaul told Olsen. "When you've got a Major on a major base in the United States talking to the number two terrorist in the world and that's not transmitted to the general and commanding officer in charge of Fort Hood, I think that is absolutely unacceptable,” McCaul continued. “And in particular after reading these emails I feel that senior officials misled the congress by downplaying the extent and importance and significance of these emails."The unclassified version of the Webster report on the Fort Hood shooting, released last week, for the first time publicly exposed details of Hasan's emails with Awlaki prior to the attack, and the FBI's unwillingness to investigate. The FBI's Washington Field Office (WFO), responding to urgent requests from the FBI in San Diego to investigate Hasan, expressed concerns that alerting Hasan's supervisors could ruin his career, and called the subject of a Muslim visiting extremist websites "politically sensitive for WFO". "There is a huge red flag in this email," Congressman McCaul told Olsen, referencing Hasan's justification for suicide bombings against "enemy soldiers" in May 2009, nearly six months before Hasan killed 13 soldiers and wounded several others. "As a former DOJ prosecutor working with JTTF (Joint Terrorism Task Force) I can see San Diego's concern but I cannot imagine why WFO did not give that greater attention."Olsen cited the Fort Hood shooting and the first underwear bomber's attempt to blow up a jet on approach to Detroit on Christmas Day 2009 as "seminal events" for lessons learned.# # #
07.19.2012	Bipartisan and Expert Agreement that Drones Fall Under DHS OversightAUDIO/VIDEO: McCaul-Humphreys Q&AMcCaul-GAO/Sheriff Dep/Privacy Q&AWASHINGTON, D.C. – The Department of Homeland Security is responsible for oversight of security related to unmanned aerial drones in domestic U.S. airspace, despite the Department's claim to the contrary. That is the unanimous, bipartisan sentiment of members of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee and witnesses ranging from law enforcement to privacy experts who testified at a hearing today. DHS refused to supply a witness. The hearing on domestic use of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS) exposed the proliferation of drones in US airspace by organizations including law enforcement, vulnerabilities to hacking of drones and the potential threats they pose to national security. The Department’s failure to provide a witness illustrates it could be reverting back to a pre-9/11 mindset that the 9/11 Commission described as a lack of imagination in identifying threats."We had a direct threat to the Capitol of the United States and the Pentagon, and yet they don’t see it as a role of the Department of Homeland Security to come up with a policy and security assessment to monitor the threat that these domestic drones can pose to the American people," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), the subcommittee Chairman, referencing a threat foiled by the FBI involving a plot to use drones laden with explosives. "I believe the department shouldcome before this committee to answer why they believe they should not have a role in this."“Clearly this is an emerging threat and it is certainly within the jurisdiction of DHS to respond to this committee's request of where they stand,” said Congresswoman Yvette Clarke (D-NY).While the FAA is responsible for ensuring UAS's fly safely in US airspace, with only two and a half years until drones begin to dominate the skies, no federal agency is taking the lead to develop the relevant policies and guidelines for their use. This is despite the fact that four years ago the Government Accountability Office recommended DHS examine the security implications of future, non-military UAS operations in the national airspace system and take any actions deemed appropriate. "We still think that our recommendation is valid and needing to be addressed," testified Gerald Dillingham, Ph.D. of the GAO.The FAA has granted more than 200 Certificates of Authority to operate drones to more than 100 entities. Those numbers are expected to reach the thousands within five years. The urgency for guidelines is building as civilian use drones have been identified as targets for use by terrorist organizations as weapons and vulnerable to hacking.Dr. Todd Humphreys, an engineering professor at the University of Texas at Austin, successfully hacked into and commandeered a drone in flight while working with DHS to identify security vulnerabilities. He exposed a universal vulnerability in the GPS navigation systems used in all non-military grade drones. While most civilian drones today are small, he proposes guidelines that would require UAS's weighing at least 18 pounds to have spoof-proof navigation systems. "What my nightmare scenario would be is looking forward three or fouryears where we have now adopted the UAS's in the national airspace without addressing this problem and now the problem is scaling up, so that we’ve got more heavy UASs, more capable UASs," Dr. Humphreys testified. "DHS seems either disinterested or unprepared to step up to the plate to address the proliferation of drones, the potential threats they pose to our national security, and the concerns of our citizens of how drones flying over our cities will be used including protecting civil liberties of individuals under the Constitution," Chairman McCaul said, noting the need for guidelines for how law enforcement will use drones. "What most Americans don’t want to see is eyes in the sky spying on the American people."In turn, the need for federal guidance from a law enforcement perspective has also surfaced. This year the FAA denied authorization for the Montgomery Co. (TX) Sheriff's Office to deploy its drone, citing the need for a life-and-death situation. "They (FAA) do not have the understanding, the expertise, that I believe an agency such as the DHS would have in understanding the operational roles and missions that, in our case, law enforcement would have and the needs that we would have," testified Montgomery Co. Chief Deputy Randy McDaniel. Privacy expert Amie Stepanovich from the Electronic Privacy Information Center, agreed with the need for DHS action and urged DHS’s Privacy Office to immediately conduct a privacy impact assessment related to domestic drone use.Chairman McCaul and Ranking Member Bill Keating (D-MA) have agreed to introduce legislation requiring DHS to work with the Department of Justice and the FAA to ensure privacy and security concerns are addressed before widespread deployment of drones is authorized in 2015.# # #
07.18.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations and member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee, issued the following statement on today's terrorist attack against Israeli citizens in Bulgaria: “Today’s senseless and tragic terrorist attack against innocent Israeli citizens in Bulgaria should be condemned in the strongest possible terms. Eighteen years to the day after the barbaric attack by Iran’s Qods Force on the AMIA Jewish Community Center in Buenos Aires, today’s attack in Bulgaria appears to again be the work of Iran, as stated by the Prime Minister Netanyahu. "The United States should act swiftly to designate the Qods Force as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO). If this administration will not act, the Congress should. I have introduced legislation which would require the Qods Force to be designated as an FTO, giving prosecutors new tools to bring charges against anyone providing material support or resources to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ Qods Force. "My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Israel, especially the family and friends of the victims of this attack. The United States stands ready to support our Israeli allies and work with them to prevent and counter Iran’s growing threat to innocent civilians all over the world.”Congressman McCaul introduced the Qods Force FTO legislation in March. The press release follows.# # #
07.18.2012	Disclosure Comes in Advance of Thursday’s Drone HearingWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations, issued the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security's position and refusal to send a witness to tomorrow's hearing on the domestic use of Unmanned Aerial Systems (drones). The press advisory for tomorrow’s hearing follows.Statement by Chairman McCaul: "DHS seems either disinterested or unprepared to step up to the plate to address the proliferation of Unmanned Aerial Systems in U.S. air space, the potential threats they pose to our national security, and the concerns of our citizens of how drones flying over our cities will be used. I am concerned DHS isreverting back to a pre-9/11 mindset, which the 9/11 Commission described as a lack of imagination in identifying threats and protecting the homeland. "Four years ago the Government Accountability Office recommended DHS assess security implications of routine UAS access to the national airspace and take appropriate actions. However, in discussions with my Subcommittee staff prior to this hearing, Department officials repeatedly stated the Department does not see this function as part of its mission. I strongly disagree."DHS’s lack of attention to this issue is incomprehensible. It should not take a 9/11 style attack by a terrorist organization such as Hezbollah or a lone wolf inspired event to cause DHS to develop guidance addressing the security implications of domestic drones. It should not take a hearing to force DHS to develop policy when it comes to securing our homeland. This is yet another example of how DHS leadership is failing to get ahead of the curve on an issue, which directly impacts the security of the United States.” HOMELAND SECURITY HEARING ADVISORYSubcommittee on Oversight, Investigations & Management Thursday, July 19, 2012HEARING: “Using Unmanned Aerial Systems Within the Homeland: Security Game Changer?”TIME: 9:30AM ET LOCATION: 311 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. Live Web StreamInternet Explorer recommended WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Thursday, July 19, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) will chair a hearing to examine the proliferating use of Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS), or drones, by law enforcement and other entities inside the United States. Notable facts and concerns the hearing will examine: 200+ active Certificates of Authorization for UAS issuedby the FAA to 100+ domestic entities including law enforcement and academic institutions. Nationwide deployment of non-government drones allowed by 2015. DHShas yet to implement a 2008 recommendation by the GAO that it assess security implications of routine UAS access to the national airspace and take appropriate actions. Security threatposed by the vulnerability of civilian drones to be electronically hacked and commandeered, as recently demonstrated by the University of Texas. Video from White Sands Missile Rangeshowing the ability to hack into and commandeer a drone will be shown during the hearing. WitnessesDr. Todd HumphreysAssistant Professor, Cockrell School of Engineering (Hacked a Drone)The University of Texas at AustinDr. Gerald DillinghamDirector, Civil Aviation IssuesU.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO)Chief Deputy Randy McDanielMontgomery County Sheriff’s Office (Has a Drone)Conroe, TXMs. Amie StepanovichAssociate CounselElectronic Privacy Information CenterDepartment of Homeland Security Witness Invited Chairman McCaul on theHearing:“Unmanned aerial systems, commonly referred to as drones, have been a force multiplier in our military operations abroad, and along our borders. These systems are now being used in the United States by law enforcement, government agencies and even academic institutions. Some Americans worry such systems will become invasive ‘eyes in the sky’. Others say domestic drones will eventually be armed. However, no federal agency is taking responsibility for creating comprehensive policies and regulations concerning the use of these systems domestically. “Additionally, vulnerabilities to drone hackers exist, as recently demonstrated by researchers at theUniversity of Texas, raising concerns these vehicles could be commandeered by terrorists or others with ill intent. Our hearing will examine DHS’s role in the domestic use of unmanned aerial systems and determine the extent to which the Department is prepared to ensure oversight of domestic drones."# # #
07.11.2012	"While the Supreme Court has ruled on the constitutionality of the president’s health care law, fortunately the legislative branch will have the final say. Today we continue efforts to repeal this takeover of 17% of the U.S. economy. Whether it happens this Congress, or with a Republican-controlled Senate and White House next year, the heavy-handed mandates, multi trillion dollar tax increases, and erosion of individual liberty that puts Washington between patients and their doctors will be struck down by the court of public opinion and their elected representatives."Our healthcare system is in need of common sense reforms. We must increase quality and access to care, but without punitive government regulations that penalize job creation and drive doctors out of their profession. Competition-driven reforms, such as policy portability and selling policies across state lines will help to achieve this goal. "More than 12,000 pages of regulations imposed by this law have already cost small businesses and the health care industry $2.3 billion. Once fully implemented, those regulations will soar to $24 billion. "For the average American family, insurance premiums increased $1,200 in the first year after the law passed and they are expected to rise another 13%. While the president promised that Americans can keep their policy if they like it, according to the Congressional Budget Office, millions of employees are at risk of losing their health insurance because large employers can save money by dropping their coverage and paying the penalty of $2,000 per employee. This law is hurting many more Americans than it will ever help and it needs to be repealed."# # #
07.02.2012	"I want to congratulate President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto on his victory. I look forward to meeting and working with him on the challenges our countries share. While he has stated publicly he is committed to the security of his country against the drug cartels, I am hopeful that he will not return to the PRI party of the past which was corrupt and had a history of turning a blind eye to the drug cartels. I oppose any negotiated settlement with the cartels. I am pleased by the fact that Nieto has hired General Oscar Naranjo, the former police chief in Colombia who is credited with capturing many of that country's drug kingpins, as an advisor. A stable and secure Mexico is in the best interest of the United States."Congressman McCaul serves as Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee and as Vice Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Western Hemisphere Subcommittee. In 2006 he authored the report A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border. # # #
06.28.2012	VIDEO of House Floor Remarks (different from statement below): https://youtu.be/QSkJjQ1mWfw“As a former federal prosecutor at the Department of Justice, I believe it is of utmost importance to understand all the facts of a case before passing judgment. After briefings on Operation Fast and Furious and months of debate between the Administration and the Congress that has played out before multiple congressional committees, it is clear that Attorney General Holder is in contempt of Congress and should resign.“The Department of Justice under General Holder has failed to comply with subpoenas demanding documents related to the botched operation. Under the Constitution, the congressional committee investigating the matter has oversight jurisdiction over the executive branch. “The fact that the White House asserted executive privilege minutes before a contempt vote in committee doesn’t pass the smell test. As Chairman Issa stated in his letter to the president, executive privilege is only applicable to “those documents and communications to and from the President and his most senior advisors.” Yet, the White House maintains it has not played a role in advising DOJ in this matter.“This case takes on such great importance because Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry was killed by a weapon that the Department of Justice placed in the hands of Mexican drug cartels. Understanding who knew what, and when about this ill-conceived operation is essential fortransparency and accountability, both of which are necessary to maintain the American people’s trust in the federal government.“In February, as Chairman of Oversight on the Homeland Security Committee, I requested the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General investigate the extent of DHS’s involvement in Operation Fast and Furious. While the investigation is still ongoing, the Inspector General has personally assured me the investigation is being given the highest priority and will report its findings in the near future.”# # #Congressman McCaul served as a federal prosecutor at the Department of Justice prior to his election to the U.S. House.
06.28.2012	"Today big government prevailed over freedom. While I respect the law of the land, and while Obamacare prevailed today, it will fail on the first Tuesday of November. The Supreme Court has validated what we have called this all along and what the president flatly denied: that this is the biggest tax increase on the American people, and that no American is free of the heavy hand of government. This law infringes on our freedoms, lacks public support, will continue to cripple our health care system and damage our economy. For these reasons it is important that Congress acts quickly to fully repeal the president's failed health care policies and replace them with commonsense reforms."The American people reject government mandates, massive tax increases and federal control of their personal health care decisions. Under the Obama health care policies premiums are skyrocketing and countless people are losing the very health care coverage they were promised they could keep. Doctors and businesses have also been penalized under the new health care law while government bureaucrats thrive under the new system. "Congressional Republicans will continue to address the core reforms of ensuring access to care regardless of means and pre-existing conditions without needlessly punishing individuals, families and businesses; without killing jobs; and without driving doctors out of their profession. We must replace the failing Obama policies with competition-driven reforms backed by the American people that will ultimately lower the cost of care and make it more affordable for anyone who chooses to purchase insurance coverage.”# # #Overview of Supreme Court RulingFull Text of Supreme Court Ruling
06.26.2012	Incentives for Drug Companies to Develop New Treatments for Children with Rare Pediatric Diseases Nears RealityWASHINGTON, D.C.— The U.S. Senate sent a bipartisan provision, authored by Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), to the President for his signature into law. H.R. 3059, The Creating Hope Act of 2011, will incentivize pharmaceutical companies todevelop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell. The Creating Hope Act was passed as Section 908 of S. 3187, which reauthorizes various Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices. The U.S. House approved the measure last week. “We do a lot of things in Washington that don’t mean a whole lot,” said Congressman McCaul, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. “Every now and then we get the opportunity to really make a difference in the lives of others. The Creating Hope Act has the ability to actually save lives and hand down a better America to our children. In times of tough budgetary constraints, this legislation incentivizes pharmaceutical companies to finally start creating new cures for rare pediatric diseases with no cost to taxpayers.” “I am pleased that Congress has passed this critically important measure, the Creating Hope Act,” said Congressman Butterfield. “We are one step closer to finding better treatments and cures for rare pediatric diseases. Ilook forward to President Obama signing this bill into law.”"This is the first time the United States Congress has provided a solution to thedire lack of drug development expressly for children with rare and deadly diseases," said Nancy Goodman, Founder of Kids Versus Cancer. “Congress has taken a historical stand.”"The passage of the Creating Hope Act marks an important milestone in efforts to find new cures and better treatments for children with cancer,” said Dr. Peter Adamson, Chairman of the Children’s Oncology Group and Professor of Pediatrics and Pharmacology at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. The Creating Hope Act expands the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administrationpriority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies toexpedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to dozens for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associatedwith their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.The Creating Hope Act will:Expand the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher forproducts that they already market in other countries.Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.Provide greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application.“The Creating Hope Act “fundamentally transforms the way that drug companies look at rare pediatric diseases and compensates for market failures that have prevented any new treatment for pediatric cancer from being developed in a generation,” Rep. McCaul said.# # #
06.26.2012	"Contrary to DHS's position that 287(g) is 'not useful' in states that have Arizona-style laws, I could not disagree more. Yesterday the Supreme Court upheld the right of local and state law enforcement in Arizona to initiate the enforcement of our immigration laws. However, only federal law enforcement can complete the process through deportation. Discontinuing 287(g) takes away the most effective link between local police and sheriffs' offices, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement and, ironically, removing this link hinders the administration's stated goal to maximize limited resources by using prosecutorial discretion in deportation. "It is astounding that for the second time this month, the Obama administration has placed politics ahead of good government, and taken the law into its own hands when it didn't get what it wanted from Congress or the Supreme Court."# # #
06.21.2012	Chips Pose Risk to Military and Sensitive Computer NetworksWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, introduced legislation Wednesday to stop the flow of more than one million counterfeit microchips into the United States, primarily made in China, that pose a risk to our military and sensitive computer networks. Congressman Buck McKeon (R-CA), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, and Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), Ranking Member on Homeland Oversight, are original co-sponsors.McCaul’s bill would reverse a Department of Homeland Security policy implemented in 2008 that hinders American companies from positively identifying whether a suspected chip is their product or a rogue counterfeit.“This flawed policy has opened the floodgates for corrupt microchips to enter theUnited States,” Congressman McCaul said. “This is a tremendous national security risk to our military and our intelligence networks. The industry has the ability to detect these chips but the government is standing in the way. The policy has to be reversed.”“When counterfeit chips make their way into the United States, consumers across the country are put in danger, not to mention the men and women serving our country,” said Congressman McKeon. “From brake systems and defibrillators to advanced military weapon systems, when a product fails because of a counterfeit chip, the consequences can be catastrophic. This bill will fundamentally improve our efforts to stop the dangerous flow of counterfeitchips onto our shores.” “One of the most threatening genres of counterfeit goods flooding the markets are semi-conductors – parts and chips – that are finding their way into military systems and modes of transportation through vulnerable supply chains,” said Rep. Keating. “Recently, supply chains have become even more exposed to these faulty chips due to a little known Customs and Border Protection protocol that seriously obstructs a manufacturer’s ability to identify counterfeit chips. This bill seeks to overturn this protocol and aid manufacturers to identifywhich of their chips are actually their own and which are imposters. Inevitably, this bill will save equipment from unexpectedly malfunctioning and potentially save many lives.”DHS helps chipmakers verify authenticity. However, in 2008 the Departmentstopped sending companies photos with serial numbers and other identifying information, which is necessary for a company to determine whether a product is authentic or counterfeit. Last July, Brian Toohey, with the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), testified before McCaul’s subcommittee that it is now impossible to make this determination, and easier for counterfeit chips to enter the marketplace. He said the 2008 policy led to the US military purchasing 59,000 counterfeit microchips from China in 2010. A recent Senate Armed Services Committee investigation found counterfeit microchips from China in the following:The Navy’s SH-60B Seahawk helicopter used for anti-submarine warfare, search and rescue, drug interdiction, anti-ship warfare, cargo lift, and special operations. Counterfeit parts were found on a part that compromised the copter's night-vision system.C-130 and C-27 cargo planes. Systems that tell pilots of about the aircraft's performances could have gone blank. The Navy’s P8-A, long-range anti-submarine warfare, anti-surface warfare, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft (Boeing 737). Test planes contained a tampered part that never should have been installed."You want to help the government identify counterfeit chips and it’s my understanding that the lawyers at the Department have now determined that they cannot give you this information unless they have basically taken all of the identifying information off of it. How can you possibly identify if something is counterfeit when they have taken off all the code numbers?" Chairman McCaul asked during the July 7, 2011, hearing."You’re exactly right, Mr. Chairman. You can’t," Toohey responded.# # #
06.21.2012	Strategy, Resources, Personnel Lacking to Stop Drug Trafficking, Threat to U.S. MainlandWASHINGTON, D.C. – United States federal law enforcement lack the necessary resources and personnel in the Caribbean Sea to combat the escalation of drug trafficking, violence, and the threat of human smuggling and weapons of mass destruction destined for the U.S. Mainland. America's unprotected Caribbean border was the subject of a hearing before the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee. "This is an area that has been overlooked by the federal government," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the subcommittee. "This is a wide open back door to the United States and we need to shut it. It is a growing pipeline for drugs into our neighborhoods and we know that terrorists who seek to do us harm inside our borders look to exploit established criminal networks and smuggling routes. Without a comprehensive strategy and resources the region could continue to spiral out of control."According to the Intelligence Chief for the Drug Enforcement Agency, larger and larger loads of both cocaine and heroin are taking maritime routes widely used in the 1980's from South and Central America, to Puerto Rico. As much as 80% of cocaine trafficked through Puerto Rico is directed to U.S. East Coast cities and distributed throughout the country. 30% of cocaine reaching the U.S. mainland comes through the Caribbean, according to the National Drug Threat Assessment. In 2011, 165,000 metric tons of illegal drugs were seized in the Caribbean, Bahamas and Gulf of Mexico, up 36% over four years. Since Puerto Rico is a U.S. Territory, once shipments of illegal contraband reach the Commonwealth, they are unlikely to be subjected to further U.S. Customs inspections en route to the continental United States. The threat this hole in security poses to national security is amplified as the Caribbean region is susceptible to smuggling nuclear, radiological, chemical, and biological materials.As drug trafficking organizations increase their use of semi-submersible vessels, U.S. Coast Guard Rear Admiral William Lee testified they are pushing the limits of aerial surveillance and radar capabilities used to detect them. As DTO's enhance their technology, tracking will be impossible without help from U.S. Navy operations."The fact of the matter though is that as these organizations emerge into the fully submersible technology, which we know they already have the capability of doing we have no method of detecting them once they become subsurface," RADM Lee testified. "When the appropriate naval resources are in that area of operations some of them do have that capability."The reality is that federal and state law enforcement have not been able to keep pace with this agile and well-funded enemy," Puerto Rico Governor Luis Fortuno testified. "As a result, the U.S. Caribbean Border is experiencing a dramatic upsurge in drug related crime and violence."Gov. Fortuno implored the Obama administration to implement a strategy and resources to help the local police force protect the island's 3.7 million citizens. He asserted there are disproportionately fewer federal law enforcement assigned to the Caribbean region and that agencies including the DEA, FBI and Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) have a high rate of vacancies among their ranks. # # #
06.20.2012	AUDIO/VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8cYyrC2tEHkWASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations, dismissed claims that congressional hearings on radicalization are based on the flawed assumption that religious belief is a precursor to terrorism. "We have to look at the obvious, that there is a religious component to this," said Rep. McCaul, a former Chief of Counter-Terrorism in the U.S. Attorney's Office, during today's Homeland Security Committee hearing. "It doesn't reflect the vast majority of Muslims. I agree the vast majority are good, law abiding citizens. But there are those within the United States, the enemy within, that do want to do us harm and bring down this nation and kill our soldiers and kill innocent civilians."Faiza Patel, Co-Director of the Liberty and National Security Program at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law testified that the Committee’s recent hearings on radicalization do not rest on a firm factual basis. "They proceed from a premise – which is contrary to empirical evidence – that “radicalization” is prevalent among American Muslims and poses an existential threat to our country," Patel testified. An estimated 2.7 million American Muslims live in the United States. According to the results of a 2011 Pew poll, 16% of American Muslims (440,000) had a favorable or only somewhat unfavorable view of Al Qaeda. Further, 13% of American Muslims (357,000) believed that suicide bombings or other violence against civilians, to defend Islam from its enemies, was often, sometimes or rarely justified. "This is real," Rep. McCaul told Patel. "Talk to those families," he said, referring to the families of 13 U.S. Army soldiers killed at Fort Hood in November 2009. Major Nidal Hasan had exchanged emails with radical cleric Anwar al Awlaki, an al Qaeda leader in Yemen prior to opening fire on the base.# # #
06.15.2012	"The Obama administration unilaterally, without consulting the Congress, implemented changes to America's border security and immigration policy, mandating that our federal law enforcement officers break United States immigration laws at their own discretion. Our immigration laws should be fully enforced and any change to our laws should emanate from the legislative branch of government. It is an insult to our representative democracy that this administration continues to make policy when it does not get what it wants from Congress. "Once we have operational control of our borders, Congress needs to fully examine our immigration laws. Our country does need a reasonable solution to address young children on a case by case basis. However, the cookie-cutter approach implemented by the Department of Homeland Security will only serve to motivate more families to attempt to enter the United States illegally. As a rule I oppose any effort to grant amnesty or create a path to citizenship for those who come here illegally and jumped the line ahead of people who have gone through the proper channels to enter lawfully. We are a nation of laws. I look forward to discussing in a deliberative process, through hearings and debate, the plight of young children who came here illegally without choice."###
06.07.2012	Bipartisan “DHS Accountability Act” Necessary to Root Out Corruption, Waste and Mismanagement in a Troubled Department Vital to Protecting AmericansWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations & Management Subcommittee, has introduced legislation to conduct an independent, top-to-bottom examination of deficiencies in Department of Homeland Security leadership and management structure. It follows five oversight hearings examining widespread corruption, low morale, inefficiency and waste of taxpayer dollars, and comes ten years since the inception of DHS. The bipartisan legislation is co-sponsored by Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), the subcommittee’s Ranking Member."The simple fact is DHS is dysfunctional and there are doubts it can carry out its core mission of protecting the homeland," said Chairman McCaul. “At this moment, the department is a liability to our national security.”"What's needed for DHS is a top to bottom management review because the current management team is not getting the job done," McCaul said. "Our hearings determined there is corruption, waste, duplication and abuse of power. These are all symptomatic of deeply rooted flaws in the department'smanagement. The problems are systemic, and I believe it will take a dedicated team of independent investigators to identify the root causes andrecommend changes."What the Panel Will Do: The DHS Accountability Act of 2012 creates an independent 10-member advisory panel appointed by the legislative and executive branch to comprehensively assess DHS management structure andcapabilities. The Act requires the panel to make recommendations to improve the efficiency and effectiveness. The Act requires an interim report sent to Congress one year after the panel’s selection, with a final report due two years after its inception. The panel will possess subpoena power and the authority to conduct hearings and receive expert witness testimony. The panel’s budget of $5 million will be paid for with existing DHS funds with no additional cost to taxpayers.The panel will be charged with, among other things, assessing the current structure of DHS and making recommendations to make it a leaner, smarter, more effective organization. It will also be responsible for ferreting out duplicative programs and offices.“Although DHS remains a legacy agency, the fact that it is at many times the first line of defense during and after natural or man-made disasters makes its missionever more important and challenging. For this reason, our subcommittee has paid particular attention to any distraction from its core mission of protecting the homeland,” says Rep. Keating. “Unfortunately, the multiple indications of waste and duplication that we’ve examined in Committee and noted by The Government Accountability Office and DHS Inspector General cannot beignored. Now that we know of the areas of weakness, my colleague, Michael McCaul, and I have introduced this legislation to move toward action. The purpose of the bipartisan advisory panel will be to not merely examine examples of duplication or waste, but to work toward eliminating these instances andgetting DHS to focus on what is truly important, the safety and peace of mind of all our citizens.”Subcommittee Findings (details attached): Chairman McCaul determined the necessity for the panel after a series of hearings and investigations concluded there is duplication, waste, corruption and misconduct within Customs and Border Protection (CBP), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), as well as low morale department-wide. "I've always believed that a public service is a public trust,” Rep. McCaul said. “While the vast majority of DHS employees are honest and hardworking, unfortunately the actions of a few bad apples taint the entire organization."During a March 8 oversight hearing, former Virginia Governor James Gilmore III testified that 10 years after the 9/11 attack is a good time to do a management assessment of whether the structure of DHS is the best way to carry out the mission of protecting the nation. Gilmore chaired the Gilmore Commission, which assessed U.S. response capabilities to WMD.DHS is the third largest department in the Federal government with more than 200,000 employees and an annual budget of more than $40 billion. Its transformation, according to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), is critical to achieving its homeland securitymission. However, excessive bureaucracy, waste, ineffectiveness and lack oftransparency have hindered its operations and wasted taxpayer dollars. Since 2003, GAO has designated the transformation of DHS as high risk because the Department had to transform 22 agencies—several with major management challenges—into one department, and failure to effectively address the Department’s management risks could have serious consequences. To date, DHS remains on GAO’s “High-Risk List”. However, a comprehensive management assessment of the department has yet to be conducted.Advisory Panel Makeup (10 Members)2 members of differing political parties chosen by the Speaker of the House in coordination with the Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee.1 member chosen by the Minority Leader in the House in coordination with the Ranking Member of the House Homeland Security Committee2 members of differing political parties chosen by the Senate Majority Leader in coordination with the Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee.1 member chosen by the Minority Leader of the Senate in coordination with theRanking Member of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee2 members of differing political parties chosen by the President in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security.1 member shall be the Comptroller General of the United States or designee.1 member shall be the DHS Inspector General or designee.# # #DHS Accountability Act of 2012: Recent Key Findings of the Oversight SubcommitteeDHS Accountability Act of 2012: Bill Text
05.30.2012	Incentives for Drug Companies to Develop New Treatments for Children with Rare Pediatric Diseases Nears RealityWASHINGTON, D.C.— The U.S. House of Representatives tonight approved a bipartisan provision authored by Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and G. K. Butterfield (D-NC) that would incentivize pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children withrare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell disease. H.R. 3059, The Creating Hope Act of 2011, was passed as part of H.R. 5651, which reauthorizes various Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices. If the Senate approves the measure, it would go to the president for his signature.“There aren’t many bills that pass the House that give instant hope to so many people in need. This one does,” said Congressman McCaul, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. Countless numbers of children and their families who are unable to treat their disease because of a lack of adequate treatments are counting on this legislation, as will many more children who may one day learn that they have a life-threatening illness. The Creating Hope Act offers the best chance of encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop treatments for children at no cost to taxpayers.”"Children living with these life threatening conditions need access to newly developed drugs that can treat these rare diseases," said Congressman Butterfield. "The Creating Hope Act incentivizes pharmaceutical research and development, which will undoubtedly lead to countless young lives being spared from rare diseases. I thank my colleagues Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman Fred Upton and Ranking Member Henry Waxman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for their commitment to passing this bill.”The Creating Hope Act would expand the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies toexpedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to 50 for adults. Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.The Creating Hope Act will:Expand the Priority Review Voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher forproducts that they already market in other countries.Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.Provide greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application.Last week, the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center’s Chaplaincy Fund presented awards to Congressman McCaul and his wife Linda for their efforts to fight childhood cancer. M.D. Anderson is an advocate of The Creating Hope Act. Mrs. McCaul is a member of the Board of Visitors at M.D. Anderson, where she is Chair of theChildren's Cancer Hospital Advisory Group and also leads its Federal Relations Subcommittee. # # #Congressman and Linda McCaul with Dr. Genie Kleinermann (left) and her husband Leonard Zwelling, both of M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, at the Chaplaincy Fund Loving Hearts & Caring Hands dinner in Houston May 22.
05.30.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations and Management will examine the growing national security threat posed by America's unprotected Caribbean border, and the ability of the Department of Homeland Security to secure that border from drug trafficking, human smuggling and the possibility of weapons of mass destruction destined for the United States. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) will chair the hearing, "U.S.-Caribbean Border: Open Road for Drug Traffickers and Terrorists”, June 21.“The disturbing increase in drug trafficking and drug-related violence in this region is a major contributing factor. It is alarming and unacceptable. If this kind of violence were happening anywhere else where 4 million American citizens resided, it would make daily headlines," said Chairman McCaul. “This problem is no less serious than drug cartels operating across the Mexican border. Moreover, the established ties between drug cartels and terrorist groups such as Hezbollah present an even graver threat to our national security. Essentially, the U.S. Caribbean territories are functioning as an unlocked back door into the mainland United States. This situation is urgent, and must be addressed by the Department of Homeland Security.”Rep. McCaul said the purpose of the upcoming hearing is to assess the extent to which DHS and its components, such as the U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and BorderProtection and the Transportation Security Administration need to adjust their strategies and resources in order to protect America’s Caribbean Border from this threat. An estimated 30 percent of the illegal drugs now reaching the U.S. mainland come through the Caribbean, and in the case of Puerto Rico over 70 percent of cocaine transiting through the island is destined for stateside markets. More than 165,000 metric tons of illegal drugs were seized in the Caribbean, Bahamas and Gulf of Mexico during FY2011, up 36% over four years.PuertoRico Gov. Luis Fortuño, who is on the front lines in the battle against drug trafficking and drug-related violence in the region, will testify before the subcommittee in Washington. Gov. Fortuño said he looks forward to thehearing as an opportunity to help shape a more effective, proportionate response to the security challenge facing America’s Caribbean Border.“I have discussed with Congressman McCaul the challenges we are facing and I commend him for his leadership and initiative on this issue. I look forward to working with him and others to make sure that at both the federal and territorial level, we are doing everything that needs to be done to addressthis issue as a national priority, and secure all of the Nation’s borders,” Gov. Fortuño said.The House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations and Management has jurisdiction over all DHS operations. # # #
05.25.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The director of Immigrations and Customs Enforcement issued a memorandum to all ICE employees reminding them of the "special public trust and confidence" they must honor as ICE representatives. Director John Morton issued the "Statement of Policy and Intent Regarding Employee Integrity" one week after a hearing before the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations & Management Subcommittee examining waves of misconduct that have escalated over the last several years within ICE, Customs and Border Protection and the Transportation Security Administration. The hearing was chaired by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX)."All employees, regardless of position or rank, are accountable for their choices and actions. Employees who violate the public trust for personal gain or other personal motives, or who compromise their integrity, undermine how the public views them, their co-workers and, in turn, the entire agency," the memorandum states. "Failure to demonstrate the highest standard of integrity can also interfere with ICE's ability to further the mission that you faithfully carry out each and every day. Consequently, ICE employees must not engage in any conduct or activities that would discredit them, bring ICE into disrepute, or impair the agency's efficient and effective operation."Combined in FY2011, CBP and ICE had 9,073 allegations of employee misconduct including 893 for corruption such as personnel collaborating with drug smugglers and filing fraudulent travel documents. TSA had 612 allegations of misconduct in FY'11. Dozens of TSA Officers have been fired for allowing thousands of pieces of luggage onto flights without proper screening and for taking bribes allowing passengers expedited security checks. Last week's hearing followed a series of hearings before the committee investigating substandard DHS leadership management structure in an effort to make necessary changes that will enable the Department to carry out its core mission of protecting the homeland."I applaud Director Morton for taking action on this very important issue," said Chairman McCaul. "I've always believed that a public service is a public trust. While the vast majority of DHS employees are honest and hardworking, unfortunately the actions of a few bad apples taint the entire organization." # # #
05.10.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.— The House Energy and Commerce Committee has approved a provision authored by Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) that would incentivize pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for children with rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers and sickle cell disease. H.R. 3059, The Creating Hope Act of 2011, was passed as part of today’s markup of a bill to reauthorize various Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fee programs for prescription drugs and medical devices.“This legislation will give hope to countless numbers of children and their families who are unable to treat their disease because of a lack of adequate treatments,” said Congressman McCaul, founder and chairman of the bipartisan Congressional Childhood Cancer Caucus. “The Creating Hope Act offers the best chance of encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop treatments for children at no cost to taxpayers. I thank Chairman Upton and his staff for working with us to support our nation’s most vulnerable children. I look forward to a vote in the full House.”"Children living with these life threatening conditions need access to newly developed drugs that can treat these rare diseases," said Congressman Butterfield. "Whether a disease is rare or common, the need for effective care and potential cures is the same. The Creating Hope Act provides a much-needed incentive to promote research and development that will ultimately save lives. This could not have happened without the hard work of my colleague Congressman Michael McCaul as well as Chairman Fred Upton and Ranking Member Henry Waxman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee."The Creating Hope Act would expand the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV) program, allowing pharmaceutical companies to expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one new drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to 50 for adults.??Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.??The Creating Hope Act will:• Expand the Priority Review voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.• Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher for products that they already market in other countries.• Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.• Provide greater certainty to sponsors that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher, by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application.# # #
04.27.2012	Requires federal agencies to implement strategic plans to prevent attacks VIDEO:McCaul-Lipinski House Floor RemarksWASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House passed The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act Friday, taking an essential step toward securing our federal computer networks and critical infrastructure, while helping to protect businesses and individuals from cybercrime. H.R. 2096, introduced by Congressman MichaelMcCaul (R-TX) and co-sponsored by Congressman Dan Lipinski (D-IL), passed the House 395-10.“If agents of a foreign government broke into the Pentagon and stole top-secret documents from filing cabinets it simply would not be tolerated, yet this is what happens every day in the virtual world,” said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee. “China has already stolen critical design and electronics information for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, allowing them not only to copy the plane, but to guard against it as well. Thatbreach is a direct threat to our national security, the safety of the American people and our interests abroad. Hardening our networks against espionage must be a top priority,” added Rep. McCaul, who is also a member of the Speaker’s Cyber Taskforce and co-founder and co-chairman of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. “Cybercrime poses an enormous and under-recognized threat to America’s national security, economy, businesses, and households,” said Rep. Lipinski, the Research and Science Education Subcommittee Ranking Member, who introduced the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act in the 111th Congress. “This bipartisan bill will help eliminate the shortfall of skilled cybersecurity professionals and develop the technologies we need to defend our infrastructure, industry, and the public from cybercrime. Foreign countries as well as international criminal organizations have penetrated the computer defenses of military contractors, government agencies, and financial and other companies whose systems control critical infrastructure. Intellectual property theft by hackers based in China now constitutes a new form of trade war that blunts America’s competitive edge. Yesterday, the Homeland Security Committee heard from witnesses about Iran’s development of a ‘cyber army.’ Meanwhile, identity theft is a growth industry costing $50 billion annually. I urge the Senate to follow the lead of the House and quickly pass this legislation for the sake of the American people.”An October 2011 report to Congress on foreign economic collection and industrial espionage states it is part of China and Russia’s national policy to try to identify and steal sensitive technology to blunt America’s competitive edge and bolster their own economic growth.The McCaul-Lipinski bill will help harden federal networks, spur research and development, build ourAmerican cyber workforce and enable the government, universities and private sector to collaborate more easily on cybersecurity R&D. “These important bills will help promote more security and reliability in our networks while safeguarding consumers' rights and information," Christopher Padilla, Vice President, IBM Governmental Programs, said of the McCaul-Lipinski legislation and three other cyber bills before the House.The U.S. Chamber of Commerce calls the McCaul-Lipinski bill “an important step toward improving federal cybersecurity R&D activities to improve the security, reliability, and resilience of America’s digital infrastructure in partnership with industry.” The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act incorporates several key recommendations of the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President, which Congressman McCaul co-chaired. The commission presented the report Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidencyto President Obama detailing recommendations for securing government networks and critical infrastructure. The bill:Improves R&D: Requires a strategic plan to guide federal cybersecurity research and development and reauthorizes cybersecurity research and development programs.Develops the skilled cybersecurity workforce needed by both government and the private sector: Creates cybersecurity scholarship programs at NSF that can be repaid with federal service and reauthorizes cybersecurity fellowship grants and training for graduate students.Improves coordination outside of government: Creates a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development between the public and private sectors.Improves coordination in government: Gives the National Institute of Standards and Technology the authority to set security standards for federal computer systems and develop automated checklists for agencies to follow.Improves computer hygiene: Creates an education and awareness program, which the NSA says would help remedy the majority of vulnerabilities we face.Sets forth procurement standardsfor hardware and software that will minimize security risks and have a ripple effect on the private sector.Congressional hearings on cybersecurity have revealed most federal agencies have been hacked into, and that the federal government is under threat of cyber attack on a daily basis. Many attacks are classified as espionage, with foreign countries stealing government information. One data dump was equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. Other attacks are believed to have been attempts to shut down federal networks and cause harm.# # #
04.18.2012	McCaul-Langevin Cyber Summit a Prelude to 'Cyber Week' in the HouseWASHINGTON, D.C. – The threat of a devastating cyber attack on America's critical infrastructure is real, the consequences would be costly and the need for action by Congress is urgent. That is the consensus of a panel of technology, energy and banking industry representatives, and a former Secretary of Homeland Security."It doesn't take a lot to understand how an attack on critical infrastructure during a time of tension could seriously undermine the ability of a country to defend itself," said former Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, who keynoted a House Cybersecurity Caucus Summit on Capital Hill Tuesday. "We don't want to have another 9/11 in order to learn this lesson.""It's of great concern in terms of protecting businesses and the private sector from the theft of intellectual property, espionage and the potential of denial of service attacks or a reprogramming virus like Stuxnet that could cripple the nation," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), co-chair of the House Cyber Caucus, referring to the virus that crippled Iran's nuclear facilities. "We have to redouble our efforts. This is important not only to our national security but to our infrastructure and our economic competitiveness," said Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), co-chair of the House Cyber Caucus. "This is a time more than ever when we need closer collaboration between the public and private sector.""We are batting a thousand,” said Roger Cressey of the corporate cybersecurity consulting firm Booze, Allen, Hamilton. “We have yet to find a network that has not been penetrated by a sophisticated adversary. The message today: the threat is urgent and real. We need to take steps.”The Cyber Summit served as a prelude to as many as half a dozen pieces of cyber legislation on which the House is expected to vote next week. Congressman McCaul's Cybersecurity Enhancement Act would harden federal networks, increase research and development, strengthen education and awareness of hygiene, and procurement policies to influence the private sector to better secure their networks. Other bills would encourage sharing of signature threat information between the public and private sector. "I had the experience of living through an event that occurred after there was a fair amount of warning and four planes were hijacked and we lost about 3,000 people. My message to anybody who's interested in this, particularly in Congress, is let's do something meaningful because it is not a tolerable situation," Chertoff said.# # #
04.11.2012	"Linda and I are praying for Officer Padron's family, the Austin Police Department and our law enforcement community. These brave men and women kiss their family good-bye each day and report for duty knowing there is a chance they might not come home. Whether they are sworn to keep our streets safe or our borders secure, our law enforcement are collectively our nation's first line of defense. I salute Officer Padron for his ultimate sacrifice in serving our community."# # #
03.27.2012	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Jim Langevin (D-RI), Co-Chairs of the House Cybersecurity Caucus, introduced legislation today urging the United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations to oppose any resolution that would allow regulation of the Internet. China and Russia are leading efforts before the UN to seek such a resolution, under which the UN would give license to authoritarian governments to continue censoring the Internet and perpetuate their assault on individual liberties. H. Con. Res. 114 is consistent with the White House’s May 2011 International Strategy for Cyberspace, which calls on the United States to preserve, enhance and increase access to an open, global Internet.“Any action taken by the United Nations to attempt to limit Americans’right to free and open Internet content is unacceptable," said Congressman McCaul, who served as an advisor on cybersecurity on Speaker Boehner's High Tech Task Force. "The Internet’s current multi-stakeholder model has provided an unburdenedenvironment for ideas and inventions to thrive. No single state should havecontrol over content and information must be freely disseminated." “The proposals by some nations to gain international approval of policies that could result in Internet censorship would be a significant setback for anyone who believes free expression is a universal right,” said Congressman Langevin, who co-founded the Cybersecurity Caucus with McCaul in 2008. “It must be made clear that efforts to secure the Internet against malicious hacking do not need to interfere with this freedom and the United States will oppose any attempt to blur the linebetween the two.” Last week, Reporters Without Borders, in its annual report on Internet freedom and worldwide freedom of expression, lists 12 nations as "enemies of the Internet" including Iran, Syria, China, North Korea, Cuba and Uzbekistan. In a September letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Permanent Representatives to the United Nations from China, Russian, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, stated their intention to offer a UN resolution calling for an international code of conduct for information technology security, and stated that it is their belief that the governments of these countries should be able to control and influence public internet-related issues.“Every member of Congress and the president can be in agreement that there is no area where the need for vigilance is more necessary than in preserving our FirstAmendment right to free speech and open access to information,” Rep. McCaul said. Reps. McCaul and Langevin served as co-chairs of the Center for Strategic and International Studies' (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency which presented cybersecurity recommendations to President Obama just before he took office.# # #
03.22.2012	"People do not leave jobs, they leave bad leaders" – Adm. Thad AllenVIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X7aUL_ke7xEWashington, D.C. – A lack of quality leadership in the Department of Homeland Security is the primary contributor to morale levels that are among the lowest in the federal government. This was the consensus of a range of homeland security and human resource experts who testified before a homeland security oversight hearing chaired by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX). "The purpose of this hearing is not to beat down on the department about this. It's how to constructively fix the problem," Chairman McCaul said. "It's often referred to as a step child or a whipping boy and that's not what we want the department to be. The mission is too important – to protect the lives of Americans."Two federal surveys, Federal Viewpoints and Best Places to Work, found that DHS ranks 31 out of 33 federal organizations for best places to work. It further found that only 37% of DHS's 200,000 employees believe senior leaders motivate them, and that only 37% are satisfied with their senior leaders' policies and practices. Among DHS agencies, the U.S. Coast Guard scored the highest level of job satisfaction. The Office of the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, TSA, FEMA and ICE had the lowest scores. "ICE’s top negative result was employees’ perception that pay raises did not depend on how well employees perform their jobs," testified David Maurer of the Government Accountability Office. "People do not leave jobs, they leave bad leaders," testified U.S. Coast Guard Admiral Thad Allen (Ret.). "The first and most important thing that we can do about employee morale, and there is not even a close second, is the best quality front line leadership supervision. Frontline supervisors are the most important impact on moral and employee retention."Admiral Allen, who was appointed by the President to oversee cleanup operations of the Deep Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, recommended a multi-tier leadership program under development at DHS needs to be formalized and needs support with a permanent budget line item that creates predictability and consistency so the program is implemented.Admiral Allen emphasized structural challenges that continue to exist for ICE resulting from merging established customs and immigration officers."You have different grade structures, different levels for what are journey men grades, you have different ways to test the costs that are associated with that,” Admiral Allen said, describing years of turmoil to standardize the grade structure and pay scale of legacy employees. “Employees see that. That is not de facto leadership, but they tend to aggregate that all in their impressions of the commitment of the organization to them.”DHS's Chief Human Capital Officer, Catherine Emerson, told the committee that DHS is responding to the low scores with a three-pronged strategy to improve employee morale. It includes prioritizing employee engagement; improving employee training, recognition and inclusion; and strengthening management's leadership skills.Rep. McCaul said DHS is moving forward writing plans to improve employee morale but they must turn them into actions, and assess and monitor the results.# # #
03.21.2012	Targets Iran’s Ties to Mexican Drug Cartels, Ability to Penetrate SW BorderVIDEO:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jali0qjSi7g Washington, D.C. – Citing Iran's growing nuclear capabilities, its nexus with Mexican drug cartels and its ability to exploit the Southwest border to attack the United States with a weapon of mass destruction, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX)introduced legislation today that would designate Qods Force, the terrorist arm of the Iranian government, as a Foreign Terrorist Organization. "(If) our nation's security resources and apparatus, understands that they are now a designated foreign terrorist organization it just naturally causes them to focus more heavily on that threat. That designation means a great, great deal," testified Michael Braun, former Chief of Operations, U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration.Iran's attempt to hire a Mexican drug cartel in a plot to kill the Saudi Arabian ambassador in Washington last year exposed the likelihood that Iran and Hezbollah cells in Latin America, that historically finance terrorist operations, could turn operational. This would give Iran greater ability to launch an attack inside the United States. The International Atomic Energy Agency has reported that Iran has enriched more than 100 kilograms of uranium to 20% grade – enough, according to experts, to build an effective dirty bomb."This is a very dangerous cocktail," said Rep. McCaul, whose 2006 report exposing the threat of Mexican drug cartels also documented Hezbollah’s presence in Mexico. "While Iran cannot deliver a nuclear missile, the idea that they could have weapons grade uranium and bring that across the southwest border in say a backpack and detonate adirty bomb in the United States, does become a more real threat."H.R. 4228, co-sponsored by Homeland Security Committee Chairman Peter King (R-NY), would provide U.S. Law enforcement with enhanced tools to prosecute Iran's Qods Force as a Foreign Terrorist Organization or anyone who provides material support. Witnesses today testified that there are an unknown number of Qods Force and Hezbollah operatives in the United States."If anyone thinks for a moment that Hezbollah and Qods Force, the masters at leveraging and exploiting existing elicit infrastructures globally, are notgonna focus on our Southwest border and use that as perhaps a springboard in attacking our country then they don't understand how the real underworld works," Braun said.Effects of FTO DesignationSeparate charges can be brought against anyone providing “material support or resources” to FTOs. This includes but is not limited to money, identification, lodging, training, weapons and transportation.The penalty for providing material support or resources is up to 15 years in prison and possible fine. A life sentence may be imposed if their actions resulted in death. This penalty is levied in addition to penalties for any associated crime.Any foreign member of an FTO can be deported from the United States even if they are in this countrylegally. Banks must freeze any funds tied to FTOs# # #
03.20.2012	"The House Republican budget tackles the financial challenges that we face as a country head on. This budget consolidates, reforms, and lowers corporate and individual tax rates to just two brackets, reduces spending, and reforms entitlements. By exercising discipline in the ways that we spend and taking every opportunity to give job creators the freedom that they need to grow and be competitive in the global market, we can save future generations from bankruptcy and preserve vital programs as the safety net that they were meant to be."The budget crisis was a foreseen national disaster. It is unbelievable that the President and Democrats are willing to stand in the face of financial ruin and do nothing except spend more and tax more. The President's perplexing approach to budgeting halts job creation and is an insult to millions of Americans who have urged Washington to stop piling on to what is now a $15 trillion debt. The massive deficits we have racked up have set us on a dangerous course that imperils our solvency. I refuse to stand by and do nothing ."
03.08.2012	“This is a victory for small businesses, entrepreneurs, and startups, allowing primary job creators to do what they do best by easing burdensome regulations so that these companies have better access to capital.“The actions that this administration has taken, such as spending $1 trillion on a failed stimulus package and the backlog of 3,118 additional proposed regulations on businesses, reinforce that the president’s failed economic policies continue to harm job creators. We cannot help Texans find jobs if we can’t help Texas companies create jobs. This legislation makes it easier for companies to go public and raise money, and gets the governmental red tape out of the way. It is time for the president and Democrats in the Senate to help the House get more Texans andAmericans back to work.” # # #
03.08.2012	AUDIO/VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h3nO0WNi6w0WASHINGTON, D.C. – A lack of internal oversight and cohesiveness among agencies within the Department of Homeland Security is wasting taxpayer money, delaying essential projects, contributing to corruption, and ultimately could jeopardize national security. Those findings were brought to light during today's Homeland Security oversight hearing, which drew bipartisan agreement on the need forreform.The DHS Inspector General and the Government Accountability Office drew a picture of a department that is a victim of its own inability to integrate the management functions of its 22 agencies or provide adequate oversight of people and projects.Weapons, Badges & Wasted MoneyA lack of oversight is blamed for corruption within Customs & Border Protection including agents repeatedly working with drug trafficking organizations to smuggle guns and drugs through an airport. Approximate 5,800 complaints against CBP employees in FY2011 resulted in 730 investigations. Last year there were 403 arrests throughout DHS."To me it's appalling that we have federal officers, federal agents facilitating, working with drug cartels or terrorists. It's no different than (Robert) Hanssen within the FBI or Aldrich Ames in the CIA betraying their country," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who chairs the subcommittee. Hanssen and Ames are in prison after they were found to be Russian spies, working in the FBI and CIA respectively."We need to have effective, strong internal controls," DHS Inspector General Charles Edwards said.At TSA, airport security badges were found issued to employees who had not undergone a complete Security Threat Assessment. "Individuals who pose threats may obtain airport badges and gain access to secured airport areas, endangering the safety of airport workers, passengers, and aircraft," testified Edwards. Insight into the failed Secure Border Initiative (SBInet) revealed that CBP wasted $69 million in purchasing steel to build border fences. "CBP purchased more steel than needed, incurred additional storage costs, paid interest on late payments, and approved a higher priced subcontractor," Edwards told the committee. The GAO also called into question CBP’s management of current efforts to deploy surveillance technologies to the Arizona border and suggested delaying projects so they can be implemented efficiently.Management Review"What's needed for DHS is a top to bottom management review because the current management team is not getting the job done," Chairman McCaul said."This is a good time, 10 years after the 9/11 attack, to simply do a management assessment of whether the structure of DHS is the best way to carry out themission of protecting the nation," testified former Virginia Governor James Gilmore III, who chaired the Gilmore Commission, which assessed U.S. response capabilities to WMD. Today's was the latest in a series of hearings by Congressman McCaul's Oversight, Investigations & Management Subcommittee examining the management structure of DHS and how it affects its ability to carry out its core mission of protecting the homeland, with the goal of identifying problems and generating solutions. During today's testimony, Cathy Berrick, GAO’s managing director for homeland security issues, confirmed that an investigation into CBP corruption ordered by Chairman McCaul will be complete by early summer.# # #
03.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – On the heels of the FBI’s arrest and charges of six computer hacking suspects tied to the group "Anonymous", Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) urged the expedited movement of key cybersecurity legislation on which widespread agreement already exists. The bills are aimed at safeguarding intellectual property and critical infrastructure by fortifying public and private networks.“We should be able to move on requirements to strengthen federal networks, update information sharing protections and criminal penalties, coordinating cyber R&D, and improving the federal cyber workforce,” said Rep. McCaul, co-chair of the CSIS Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President that submitted cybersecurity recommendations to President Obama upon taking office. “Hardening our networks would make it more difficult for Anonymous and other groups to break in, and increasing penalties would act as a deterrent.” “Right now the legal advantages are with the attacker,” Rep. McCaul said. "This is not the time to get bogged down on comprehensive pieces of legislation that will ultimately delay smaller pieces where we have agreement. The time is now and the need for reform is critical."Hearing AnnouncedRep. McCaul also announced Wednesday that he plans a hearing before the HomelandSecurity Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, which he chairs, on whether groups such as ‘Anonymous’ pose a threat to national security. The target date is late April."While Anonymous' motives appear to be ideological, the group has demonstrated it is a threat to the U.S. economy. That alone is a threat to our national security," McCaul said.Tuesday's announcement of arrests for hackings into international media networks and a private intelligence firm, and for interfering with law enforcement and launching denial of service attacks against Visa, MasterCard and PayPal, are examples of cyber crimes that jeopardize personal information, intellectualproperty and cause vast economic damage to individuals as well as the private sector.Last month, the director of the National Security Agency, Gen. Keith Alexander, cautioned that groups such as Anonymous could pose a threat to critical infrastructure, including power grids. House VoteCongressman McCaul’s Cybersecurity Enhancement Act is among several cybersecurity bills that have passed committee and are expected to go before the House this spring. The Act will help harden federal networks, spur research and development, build our American cyber workforce and enable the government, universities and private sector to collaborate more easily.Rep. McCaul founded the House Cybersecurity Caucus five years ago, recognizing the enormity of the issue and its potential effects on our economy and national security.# # #
03.01.2012	AUDIO/VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_lSJBCIdGM WASHINGTON, D.C. - The lack of management integration among the Department of Homeland Security's 22 agencies has led to billions of taxpayer dollars wasted and the department's inability to implement key security programs, a bipartisan congressional subcommittee hearing revealed Thursday. "When we have failed programs and we see taxpayer dollars wasted, that's not only a management issue it is an issue that puts the American people more at risk," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who chairs the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations & Management Subcommittee. "It's an issue that prohibits the department from doing its core mission and that is protecting the homeland," said Rep. McCaul, referencing the failed Advanced Spectroscopic Portal (ASP) program meant to more accurately and efficiently detect radiation in cargo entering the United States through land and sea ports, including the Port of Houston. After a $230 million taxpayer investment, DHS canceled the program last year because it was over budget and did not meet detection expectations. Cited among the shortfalls were an unacceptable number of false positive readings. "If this is in the private sector, a private company, heads would have rolled over this thing," Chairman McCaul stated, adding that a private company would go bankrupt. "You have to make this agency the best security agency in the world and the most efficient. You have an awesome responsibility," said Congressman Tom Marino (R-PA). "Sometimes not investing up front is gonna cost you more down the road and not only is that a cost in dollars it's a cost in safety," said Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA), the subcommittee's Ranking Member, urging DHS to prioritize management integration in its budget. DHS told the committee that integration improvements are in the works. "Those programs in the past suffered from the lack of oversight. There was no mechanism to review. Now we have a robust acquisition review process," Rafael Borras, the DHS Under Secretary for Management, testified. The Government Accountability Office testified DHS has been generally responsive to address the GAO's "high risk" designation. However, "the strategy did not address the root causes of problems," said the GAO's David Maurer. "They haven't always executed on those plans so I think that's the first thing going forward." # # #
02.29.2012	AUDIO/VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXBtx0iXoasWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced legislation that wouldrequire the Secretary of State to certify to Congress that Pakistan is notaiding, assisting, advising or informing the Haqqani terrorist network in any way, otherwise U.S. aid to Pakistan will be cut off and redirected toward fighting Mexican drug cartel violence on our southwest border. Foreign Affairs Committee Chairwoman, Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, is an original co-sponsor of the bill.This year, the State Department is requesting $2.4 billion incivilian and security assistance to Pakistan, some of which could end up in the hands of the Haqqani network which is behind suicide attaks in Afghanistan and is responsible for hundreds of American deaths. Defense and intelligence aid would remain in tact.“When I met with President Zardari he expressed a commitment to eradicating the Haqqani terrorist network, but I am not convinced that he has enough control over his military and intelligence to follow through,” said Rep. McCaul, who led a Homeland Security Committee delegation to Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iraq in November. “I tried to make it clear to him that foreign aide from the United States is in jeopardy.”“In my view it is an absurd foreign policy to indirectly fund a terrorist network that has killed Americans and continues to plot against us,” said Rep. McCaul."There is no doubt in my mind that certain elements of the Pakistani government are more ambivalent about cracking down on terrorism than other elements," Secretary of State Hillary Clinton told Rep. McCaul in response to the legislation. "I take seriously the underlying thrust of your question and I will carefully evaluate all factors when it comes time to make a decision."“I would urge you to continue your efforts to get them to fight with us against these terrorists rather than be complicit with them,” responded Rep. McCaul, who chairs the Homeland Security Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee and serves on the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee.In testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee in September, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman, Admiral Mike Mullen, stated that the Haqqani network is operating with Pakistan’s support. Mullen stated that there is credible evidence that an attack on the Intercontinental Hotel in Kabul in June 2011, a sucidice bombing targeting U.S. troops in the Wardack Province in September 2011, and an attack on the U.S. embassy in Kabul in September 2011, were conducted by the Haqqani network with the help of the Pakistani government, which also provides safe havens to the Haqqanis. Under Congressman McCaul’s legislation, short of the Secretary of State’s certification that Pakistan is not working with the Haqqanis, foreign aid to that country would be made available to fight the war against Mexican drug cartels along the southwest border. “This war has been raging for years and we don’t have a strategy, nor have we committed the resoucres to combat it,” said Rep. McCaul. “We are sensitive to the characteristics that some of these drug traffickers have adopted that certainly resemble terrorist activities,” Secretary Clinton testified during a hearing in October. “I have said it has characteristics of an insurgency.” A report released last year documented spillover violence on the U.S. side of the border and outlined the cartels’ strategy is to create a one-county-deep safe zone inside the United States to operate free of law enforcement interference. # # #
02.15.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano did not rule out the possibility that the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms misled her department about the intent of Operation Fast & Furious to put guns in the hands of Mexican drug cartels. "I hope they did not," Secretary Napolitano responded to Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who asked whether DHS or the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent assigned to assist ATF had been misled. The Secretary's response raises the question of whether one U.S. Government agency, in this case Attorney General Eric Holder's Department of Justice, misled another. Rep. McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, is investigating DHS's role in Fast & Furious, the Department of Justice operation which walked an unknown number of guns south across the border to Mexico in a botched effort to track the weapons to Mexican drug cartels. One of those weapons was traced to the scene of the murder of U.S. Border Patrol Agent Brian Terry in Arizona. However, Secretary Napolitano could not quell speculation that weapons used to kill U.S. ICE Agent Jaime Zapata may also have been linked to Fast & Furious. Today marked the one year anniversary of Agents Zapata and Victor Avila being ambushed on a Mexican highway by members of the Los Zetas cartel. Avila was wounded but survived. "'It's possible', is what you're saying?" Rep. McCaul asked about a link during the hearing. "I just don't know one way or another," Secretary Napolitano responded. "So you can't conclusively say one way or the other whether there's a link to these weapons and Fast & Furious?" Rep. McCaul followed. "That's true," Secretary Napolitano said. # # # Audio/Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7daN7Epsp7E
02.13.2012	"President Obama's budget proposal irresponsibly raises taxes on families and small businesses by $1.9 trillion in order pay for even more spending. His plan would dig our $15 trillion financial hole even deeper, by almost another trillion dollars next fiscal year. The president's budget ignores the major driver of spending: our entitlement programs. We need to reform them for future generations to save them from bankruptcy. The president's incomprehensible approach is detrimental to job creation, and an insult to millions of Americans who have urged Washington to stop piling the debt onto their children and grandchildren." # # #
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of the recent decision by the Obama administration requiring insurance providers – including faith–based employers – to cover sterilization and abortion–inducing services, Congressman Michael McCaul (R–TX) signed on to the Religious Liberty Protection Act of 2012. H.R. 3982 would lift the requirement of religious organizations to provide coverage for services that violate their moral conscience. "Like President Obama, I was elected to defend the Constitution of the United States. If the president will not strike down this unconscionable requirement, then the Congress will," said Congressman McCaul. Under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ObamaCare), the Department of Health and Human Services has the authority to provide a list of detailed services to be included as "essential health benefits" and "preventative health services" that all health plans are required to cover. HHS included in this list free sterilization and abortion methods. Last month, HHS affirmed it would not broaden a narrow exemption to include religiously-affiliated schools, hospitals, charities and other organizations."This immoral attack on more than 200 years of religious freedom underscores the misguided and unconstitutional approach that the Obama administration has taken in reforming America's health care system," Rep. McCaul said.The First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution provides general protection for individuals’ religious beliefs and practices. Until the enactment of the PPACA the federal government has never sought to impose specific health care coverage or care requirements that infringe on the conscious rights of insurers, purchasers of insurance, plan sponsors or beneficiaries.# # #
02.03.2012	Hearing Video: Opening Statement Q&A-1 Q&A-2WASHINGTON, D.C. – Multiple strategies within the Department of Homeland Security that are considered to be confusing and too reactive hinder the nearly 10 year old organization from combating emerging terrorist threats. That assertion was presented during today's Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations subcommittee hearing examining a plethora of guiding documents which multiple investigations have found to create performance problems and mission delays for the department's subordinate agencies."The bottom line is that DHS needs a single strategic document which subordinateagencies can follow and make sure the strategy is effectively and efficiently implemented," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who chairs the subcommittee. "If the agencies do not have a clearly established list of priorities it will be difficult to complete assigned missions."Chairman McCaul's hearing uncovered that greater emphasis should be placed on cyber security and that DHS did not use a risk assessment in developing its strategic plans."There were a number of things that went into that equation but there was not a formal risk assessment that was part of determining which things floated to the top," David Maurer, who investigates Homeland Security operations at the Government Accountability Office, testified. Alan Cohn, DHS's Deputy Assistant Secretary for policy, testified that the department agreed with GAO's recommendations and will incorporate into strategy for 2013. Congressman McCaul said the subcommittee will also take a close look at recommendationsfrom Paul Schneider, former Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security under Secretary Chertoff, to follow the Goldwater-Nichols model that successfullyrestructured and strengthened the Department of Defense. Chief among the changes would be to separate operations from acquisition."Two questions: Do we want the head of (Customs and Border Protection) with 65,000 people, 24-7 responsibilities, to keep the incorrect people and bad stuff out of the borders, at the same time we hold him responsible for putting together very comprehensive surveillance systems along the border?" Schneider testified. "In my mind, the answer is absolutely not. Let the operators do what the war fighters do – operate and basically provide good law enforcement – and have those people that are smart put together integrated systems using the maximum amount of technology available and satisfy those user requirements."An unclear mission has also led to a strategy of immigration enforcement in the interior that is often counter to efforts to secure the border, according to Dr. Sharon Caudle of the Bush School of Public Policy at Texas A&M University. "Right now you do have different sets of opinion about what the actual goals are there," she testified.Today's was the first in a series of hearings examining the challenges of DHS operations nearly a decade into the department's existence. "We live within a tough budgetary time and so I think we need to make best use out of the dollars that we have and make it more efficient and that's part of whatthese hearings are going to be about," Rep. McCaul said.Chairman McCaul and Ranking Member Bill Keating (D-MA) at today's oversight hearing.
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Nearly ten years after the Department of Homeland Security was stood up as a cabinet-level organization, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) will chair a hearing of theHomeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee to examine the strategy that DHS employs and its ability to counter emerging threats. The hearing is the first in a series examining “What’s wrong with DHS?”The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is the third largest department in the Federal government with more than 200,000 employees and an annual budget of more than $40 billion. Its transformation, according to the Government Accountability Office, is critical to achieving its homeland security mission. However, DHS has been criticized for excessive bureaucracy, waste, ineffectiveness and lack of transparency thathave hindered its operations and wasted taxpayer dollars – including the $1 billion spent on the Secure Border Initiative virtual fence (SBInet).Areas of concern cited by multiple federal investigations include:Performance problems and mission delaysattributable to acquisitions, information technology, finance, human capital and integration functions that are at high risk.Multiple documents dictating differing strategiesfor protecting the homeland create confusion and uncertainty among subordinate agencies such as TSA, CBP and ICE.Uncertainty as to how DHS will implement its strategy.May take yearsto achieve emergency preparedness.Confusion and uncertainty hinders efforts to become a cohesive, effective and efficient organization. TODAY, Friday, February 3, 2012HEARING: Is DHS Effectively Implementing a Strategy to Counter Emerging Threats? TIME: 10:00AM EDT LOCATION: 311 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. Live WebcastWitnesses:The Honorable Paul Schneider, Principal, The Chertoff GroupDr. Sharon Caudle, The Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M UniversityMr. David Maurer, Government Accountability OfficeMr. Alan Cohn, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy, Department of Homeland SecurityMr. Shawn Reese, Congressional Research Service Chairman McCaul on the hearing:“Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said, ‘I see One DHS as a strong, efficient and focused Department—one where all the talents and skills that we possess as individuals and as components come together… in new and exciting ways to serve our missions.’ This is a necessary goal, however the agency continues to be criticized for excessive bureaucracy, waste, ineffectiveness and lack of transparency that have hindered its operations and wasted taxpayer dollars. Unless we fix these types of problems we will continue to see failures in DHS programs such as SBInet, where in the end taxpayers received little if any return on a $1 billion investment. Today we begin a series of hearings asking the basic question, ‘What is wrong with DHS?’ The first hearing examines the DHS strategy and its implementation to counter emerging threats.”Opening Remarks # # #
02.02.2012	2/2 McCaul HearingVIDEOMcCaul-DEA Exchange: Iran/Hezbollah Latin America cells shift from finance to operationalOpening Remarks WASHINGTON, D.C. – Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corp (IRGC), the terrorist arm of the Iranian government, would be classified as a Foreign Terrorist Organization under abill introduced by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX). "The Revolutionary Guard and its Qods Force are responsible for deadly attacks against the United States and our allies dating back to the bombing of our embassy and Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983," said Congressman McCaul, who chairs the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee and serves on the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee. "The Guard should be designated as a Foreign Terrorist Organization right next to al Qaeda and Hezbollah."This week, James Clapper, the Director of National Intelligence, predicted the possibility of attacks on American soil. Clapper testified that Iran’s leaders “have changed their calculus and are now more willing to conduct an attack in the United States in response to real or perceived U.S. actions that threaten the regime.”According to the Department of State, Iran remains “the most active state sponsor of terrorism”. Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps, founded in the aftermath of the 1979 Islamic Revolution to defend against internal and external threats, has since expanded far beyond its original mandate. Today, the IRGC has evolved into a socio-military-political-economic force with influence reaching deepinto Iran’s power structure. “Despite brazen attacks that have killed hundreds of Americans and our allies Iran’s Guard is noticeably absent from the list of Foreign Terrorist Organizationsmaintained by the Department of State,” Rep. McCaul said. Effects of FTO Designation Under H.R. 3698, designation as a Foreign Terrorist Organization provides U.S. law enforcement with enhanced tools to prosecute:Separate charges can be brought against anyone providing “material support or resources” to FTOs. This includes but is not limited to money, identification, lodging, training, weapons and transportation.The penalty for providing material support or resources is up to 15 years in prison and possible fine. A life sentence may be imposed if their actions resulted in death. This penalty is levied in addition to penalties for any associated crime.Any foreign member of an FTO can be deported from the United States even if they are in this country legally.Banks must freeze any funds tied to FTOsIRGC Terrorist ActivitiesThe Qods Force, the Guard’s paramilitary arm, helped create Hezbollah and is responsible for gathering information required for targeting and planning attacks. According to the Department of Defense, the Qods Force is the most evident manifestation of Iran’s strategy to cultivate a network of sponsored terrorist surrogates capable of conducting effective, plausibly deniable attacks against the United States and Israel. Numerous terrorist attacks with which Qod Force has been associated include:September 2011 – Iran’s Revolutionary Guard attempted to coordinate with a Mexican drug cartel to assassinate the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the U.S. in Washington, D.C.Qods Force supplied various munitions, including 107 mm rockets, to Taliban and other militants in Afghanistan, and trained Taliban fightersSince 2005, U.S. commanders in Iraq have asserted that the Qods Force was providing highly lethal “explosively forced projectiles,” training, guidance, and financing to Shiite militias in Iraq that contributed to a surge in U.S. troop deaths in June 2011.June 1996 – A bomb was detonated near the U.S. Air Force dormitory at the Khobar Towers complex inDhahran, Saudi Arabia, killing 19 American airmen.October 1983 – Coordinated suicide truck bombs kill 241 Marines at the U.S. Marine barracks and 58 soldiers at the French Army barracks in Beirut.April 1983 – Hezbollah operatives, with the support and training of Iran, destroyed the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, killing 63 people including eight of the CIA’s top Middle East analysts.Iran maintains an extensive operational presence in Latin America thanks to the network established by the IRGC and its Lebanese proxy Hezbollah. Iran has opened six embassies in South America over the last five years, a concerted effort to project power – diplomatic and otherwise – in the United States’ backyard.“Iran and its Guard are on America’s doorstep, beginning preparations to launch an attack if needed, and a direct threat to our national security,” Congressman McCaul said. “This designation will give us the tools we need to counter this threat.” # # #
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Nearly 5,000 Scouts from across Texas will deliver their Report to State to Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) at the Texas State Capitol in the Boy Scouts of America Texas Chapter’s 63rd annual Report to State ceremonies. The Scouts, their leaders and their parents will parade up Congress Avenue to the capitol prior to the ceremonies.Congressman McCaul, a former Boy Scout, will deliver remarks and formally receive the report detailing community service, achievements and activities from across the state. Among those recognized will be Scouts from Troop 1 at First Presbyterian Church in Austin, who abruptly cancelled their long-awaited campout and diverted to Bastrop County so they could help the Red Cross unload supplies during the wildfire response. Saturday, February 4, 20129:00am Parade up Congress Avenue to State Capitol11:30am Report to State Ceremonies12:00pm Press AvailabilityLOCATION: Texas State Capitol House Chamber # # #
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Homeland Security Committee passed two cybersecurity amendments offered by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) aimed at protecting private companies from burdensome regulations and identifying the greatest threats to critical infrastructure. The amendments are attached to H.R. 3674, the PRECISE Act, which passed out of the Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infrastructure Protection and Security Technologies.Amendment 39 – Identify ThreatsRequires the Secretary of Homeland Security to report to Congress on which foreign entities, including Foreign Terrorist Organizations, pose the biggest threat to our critical infrastructure.“The recent Univision report revealing that Iranian and Venezuelan diplomats trained Mexican student to attack US nuclear facilities, illustrates that our enemies know where to hurt us most- with a targeted attack on our critical infrastructure,” said Congressman McCaul.VIDEO: Full Remarks on AmendmentAmendment 40 – Do No HarmEnsures that critical infrastructure companies will not have additional regulations forced on them by their existing regulatory agencies outside of the recognized performance standards that many companies will already be familiar with, if not already following. If a critical infrastructure company is not following the suggested risked- based performance standards, then DHS will work on creating market-based incentives to encourage the critical infrastructure company to mitigate the risk.“The private sector owns most of our nation’s critical infrastructure and commits considerable resources to ensuring thattheir computer networks are safe from outside attacks,” Rep. McCaul said. “As we go forward we must ensure that the heavy hand of government does not harm industry.”VIDEO: Full Remarks on Amendment# # #
01.27.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) will attend the Hill Country Live Wildfire Benefit in Washington, D.C. to help raise money for Bastrop County wildfirerelief efforts. The benefit will take place Monday, January 30, at Hill Country, a distinctly Texas barbecue and live music venue in Washington, D.C. frequented by members of Congress from… Texas.“Hill Country is a piece of Texas sanity in the middle of Washington and this event is an extension of our Texas values of helping our neighbors in need,” said Congressman McCaul, whose 10th District includes much of Bastrop County’s scorched terrain.SiriusXM Outlaw Country's Dallas Wayne, of Austin, will host and perform along with bands from Saskatchewan, Canada and the Washington, D.C. area. The benefit willfeature both a silent and live auction. Funds raised will be administered by United Way Capital Area of Texas and the Bastrop City Council.Last week Congressman McCaul announced the Department of Housing and Urban Development will provide $31,319,686 in much needed emergency aid to Texas following the wildfires that spread throughout the state in 2011. At least 80 percent of the assistance will go to Bastrop County, which suffered the greatest extent of damage with more than 1,500 homes destroyed.In October, Rep. McCaul chaired an Austin field hearing before his Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations subcommittee examining the federal government’s response to the wildfires. He arrived on the scene within hours after the fires started to spearhead coordination between federal, state and local responders.“People in Bastrop County have gone through a lot over the last five months. This event shows the help is here for thelong haul. Whether it’s federal assistance or private philanthropy, we’re not going away,” McCaul said.Congressman McCaul, whose little-known hobby is playing guitar (and he’s really not that bad), has not ruled out an impromptu stage appearance at the benefit.# # #Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Austin) with Dallas Wayne at the Hill Country-DC benefit for Bastrop County wildfire victims in Washington, D.C. Monday night. Wayne, a country music singer, songwriter, and host on Sirius-XM Radio, lost his home in the Bastrop fires.McCaul, Wayne and Mark Glosserman, owner of Hill Country-DC with the "Luckenbach" sign that Congressman McCaul purchased at the auction contributing to the benefit.
01.24.2012	"In his first State of the Union address, President Obama promised to cut our deficit in half by the end of his first term. Since then, he has presided over the largest debt increases in U.S. history. What we heard tonight was more rhetoric that doesn't match his record. The president says he wants to strengthen our economy and create jobs; yet 28 bipartisan jobs bills passed by the House are still sitting in the Senate untouched. The president says he wants to achieve energy independence; yet he caved to political pressure and stopped the Keystone pipeline that would have created thousands of jobs and reduced our dependence on foreign oil. Since he took office, two million people have lost their jobs and nearly half of the American population is in poverty or considered low income. This is unacceptable. "While we share the desire for long-term economic prosperity, this president's policies of spend more, tax more and regulate more stifle job creation, diminish families' disposable income and continue to bury future generations in deeper debt. His policies promote entitlement over empowerment, punishing those who take risk and rewarding those who take a handout. If the president wants to move this country forward, he should start by urging the Senate to act on our jobs bills and pass a budget for the first time in 1,000 days. Americans don't need flashy slogans and a repeat performance of the last three years. They need action right now." # # #
01.23.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In a gesture of bipartisanship, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA) will sit together at Tuesday's State of the Union address. Reps. McCaul and Matsui are co-chairs of the Congressional High Tech Caucus, a bipartisan forum where members of Congress work to advance legislation that supports a dynamic high technology and innovation economy for the 21st Century. The Caucus solicits briefings from industry leaders and experts, as well aseducators and government working on related issues. By promoting dialogue, the Caucus helps interested groups come together with legislators to improve our high tech sector, expand job growth, and enhance American competitiveness and innovation in the global economy."Jobs are the top priority and our high tech industry is one of our biggest job creators. We are simply reinforcing that even in a highlypolarized political environment we intend to put the issues most important to America's innovators ahead of any political agenda," said Congressman McCaul, who founded the High Tech Caucus in 2005.“The High Tech Caucus brings together leaders on technology issues from both sides of the aisle, and proves that these issues can, and must, transcend politics. The American technology industry continues to be the envy of the world and a proven job creator. As we continue working to get Americans back to work and keep our country competitive, we are demonstrating that we must come together to accomplish these things,” said Congresswoman Matsui. Key areas of focus for the Caucus include R&D tax credits, competitive tax reform, cloud computing, cyber security, spectrum, privacy, and intellectual property and copyright protection, among others.# # #
01.20.2012	“I am pleased to announce that the Department of Housing and Urban Development will provide $31,319,686 in much needed emergency aid to Texas following devestating wildfires that spread throughout the state in 2011. At least 80 percent of the assistance will go to Bastrop County which suffered the greatest extent of damage and destruction from wildfires that occurred late last summer. “After an initially slow and inadequate response to the fires, I held hearings with FEMA, met with leaders in the state, local and federal government, and personally toured the State, including the devastation in Bastrop, Waller and Travis Counties. I made a request to Fort Hood for Department of Defense resources available to assist with the crisis in this part of the state. In September I was able to secure DC-10s from the National Forest Service to fight the fires. When I toured Waller County in September, the residents said that the DC-10 was like "the Cavalry coming in." “For months I expressed grave concern about cumbersome protocols in place for requesting assistance. These burdensome rules prevented firefighting assets from being utilized, even when fires were at their worst and people were desperate. Help should be a phone call away and not require an act of Congress. “After lives have been shattered and hundreds of homes lost, it is appropriate that federal dollars assist our communities in our effort to rebuild. I would like to thank all the first responders and volunteers for their selfless sacrifices and extraordinary efforts to save lives and prevent further disaster.” The day after most of the damage was done, homes continue to burn in the Colo Vista subdivision.Congressman McCaul with Smithville VFD as they attempt to save a home.Smithville VFD attempts to save a home.Congressman McCaul receives a briefing at the command center Monday. Helicopters dip into what little water remains in ponds and the Colorado River to fight the raging wildfires.Exploding propane tanks force billowing smoke more than 3,000 feet into the air.###
01.18.2012	"In denying a permit for the pipeline, the President has put personal politics in an election year ahead of what's best for the nation's economy, energy policy and national security. The President has claimed again and again that he favors shovel-ready projects. If ever there was one, this is it. It is clear now that was simply political rhetoric from a President whose mainpriority is his own re-election. The pipeline would create thousands of jobs in several states – many of them in Texas. It would contribute mightily to America's national security and energy independence. Whenoperational, it would represent nearly 10 percent of U.S. petroleum imports and decrease our reliance on oil from the Middle East and countries such as Venezuela that don't like us. This President is playing politics with our national security and unemployed Americans’ lives, and that is unacceptable." # # #
01.05.2012	McCaul: Obama Proposals to Cut Military, Share Defense Secrets Create National Security RisksWASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s proposed cuts to the Department of Defense:"The saber rattling by Iran in the Strait of Hormuz demonstrates the need for a military capable of addressing multiple conflicts and disasters around the globe.“Unfortunately, this administration wants to further erode our standing in the world by degrading the capabilities of our armed forces. The President’s proposed cuts to the U.S. military end strength would end our ability to fight on two fronts and downsize our stealth fighter program, which our enemies fear. This is unacceptable. "In addition, the fact that this president has even contemplated sharing sensitive information about our missile systems with Russia is cause for alarm. You do not provide potential adversaries your secrets. Continuing to place greater importance on dubious diplomatic efforts rather than protecting Americans and our interests abroad is a risky foreign policy.“There is a void of American leadership in today’s international setting. President Obama and his administration have decided to lead from behind and attempt to appease our enemies. This is a dangerous course.“America's fiscal crisis is rooted in runaway spending and in programs that can no longer sustain themselves. We all need to tighten our belts, starting with entitlement reform. We also need sensible cost savings in the Department of Defense. Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates has it right. He said $100 billion could be saved in defense spending by reducing the number of contractors, cutting overhead, consolidating technology and limiting spending in the executive offices of the Pentagon. Cuts beyond that, he said repeatedly, are unwise."Downgrading America's role as a military superpower is not the answer.”Congressman McCaul is Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee and serves on the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee.# # #
12.20.2011	"American families deserve the certainty of a full one-year extension of the payroll tax cut. The Senate plan fails to reach this goal and simply won’t work. Just days ago, President Obama himself said it would be 'inexcusable for Congress not to further extend the middle class tax cut for the rest of the year.' That is exactly what the House has voted to do. "The House-approved bill ensures that those earning $50,000 a year would have $1,000 more in their pockets in 2012. The Senate bill falls $800 short of this. The House bill protects seniors’ health care for the next two years by ensuring that doctors in the Medicare program don’t have their payments cut. The Senate bill only provides protections for two months. The House bill provides a pay freeze for members of Congress and federal employees. The Senate bill does not. The House bill provides tax cuts for job creators. The Senate bill left them out."There is no reason, except for pure politics, for the Senate to go with a two month extension. It is time to stop playing games with the paychecks of American taxpayers and return some fiscal sanity to our great country. The House did the right thing today, and it’s time for the Senate to follow suit and pass a bill that provides certainty for a prosperous 2012." ###
12.13.2011	"This is a responsible bill that prevents a tax increase, creates jobs and takes a step toward energy independence. It also places much needed reforms on social programs that have all too often allowed recipients to squander taxpayer dollars. This bill allows Americans to keep more of their hard earned money which is crucial in a struggling economy. Production of the Keystone pipeline will create jobs and reduce our dependence on foreign oil from countries that don't have our best interest at heart. This legislation is good for the taxpayer, good for the country. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to support it and the president to sign it." # # #
12.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, urged DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano to use a strategic military assessment by two retired military generals to develop a template for a comprehensive strategy to secure the U.S.-Mexico border. The report, "Texas Border Security: A Strategic Military Assessment" by Generals Barry McCaffrey and Bob Scales, was presented to the subcommittee during an October 14 hearing. "A comprehensive strategy is needed for our Southern Border," Chairman McCaul stated in a letter to Secretary Napolitano based on hearing testimony. He noted that the report "provides a strategic framework incorporating state and local participation." The report outlined how Mexican drug cartels exploit holes in U.S. border security to infiltrate the United States and establish drug trafficking lanes and that cartels are working to set up a safe zone one county deep within U.S. border states. It further noted the success of state authorities, the Texas Rangers, to counter cartel operations. Missing, however, is adequate support from the federal government. Subsequent investigations and reports have revealed Iran's ties to Latin America and its attempt to coordinate with a Mexican drug cartel to assassinate the Saudi Arabian ambassador on U.S. Soil. "The Mexican drug cartels present a dangerous threat to the national security of the United States," Congressman McCaul stated in the letter. "I strongly urge you to use every capability of the U.S. Government to counter this growing threat to our economy, our security and well being of our citizens." # # # Official Letter to Secretary Napolitano
12.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Mangement Subcommittee, launched an investigation into the Department of Homeland Security’s role in Operation Fast andFurious. In a letter to Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director John Morton, Chairman McCaul requested copies of any documentation that would reveal the extent to which ICE personnel were involved in the planning of the operation. It also seeks to conclude whether ICE facilitated the southbound flow of weapons and cash across the United States border into Mexico and into the hands of Mexican drug cartels. A comprehensive list of the information requested by December 23 is contained in the attached letter. # # #
11.21.2011	"I am disappointed that Democrats on the select committee have balked at proposals made by Republicans to reform entitlements – a genuine attempt to make the most significant systemic change to the long term use of taxpayer dollars. Washington does not have a revenue problem. It has a spending problem. Unfortunately, Democrats continue to counter legitimate cuts with tax increases which only serve to penalize families and businesses and protect the status quo of unsustainable budgets. Congress must fulfill its responsibility to cut a minimum of $1.2 trillion and I believe it is incumbent upon us to come to an agreement on the sensible downsizing of government." - Congressman Michael McCaul (TX 10)
11.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) that prevents the U.S. Government from doing business withinternational classification societies that also do business withcountries that are State Sponsors of Terrorism. The amendment was attached to the U.S. Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Act of 2011, which passed the House Tuesday.The U.S. Coast Guard relies on these recognized organizations, called marine classification societies, to serve as agents of our government in conducting more than 3,500 statutory inspections a year on U.S.-flagged merchant vessels. These inspections verify that a vessel is in compliance with both international maritime conventions and domestic legal requirements for safety and the environment. These organizations operate around the globe and establish standards for the design, construction and maintenance of ships, oil platforms, and other marine structures. The American Bureau of Shipping, headquartered in Houston, is the only U.S.-based recognized organization. Meanwhile, several foreign-based classification societies have established Memorandums of Understanding with the U.S. Coast Guard to conduct inspections on the Coast Guard’s behalf."Unfortunately, U.S. law does not preclude these foreign-based organizations from simultaneously representing the U.S. government and the governments of State Sponsors of Terrorism. Four of them that act as agents of our government enjoy a similar recognition by the Islamic Republic of Iran," Congressman McCaul said. "An organization representing both the United States and Iran on matters of governmental oversight clearly runs contradictory to U.S. policy. This loophole must be closed."Rep. McCaul's amendment, which is based on the Ethical Shipping Inspections Act that he introduced in September with bi-partisan support, would prohibit the U.S. Coast Guard from delegating vessel inspections from organizations thatalso provide these services of behalf of any State Sponsor of Terrorism—such as Iran, Sudan and Syria. Companion language has been introduced in the Senate version of this same bill."If classification societies do business with oppressive, sanctioned regimes, they should not be allowed to do business on behalf of the U.S. Government," Rep. McCaul said.# # #
11.15.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) called for a change of strategy in America's War on Terror in Afghanistan. It would decentralize power away from the capital of Kabul, which has little influence over the rest of the country, and empower Afghanistan’s tribal leaders to work with the United States to fight our common enemy – the Taliban and al Qaeda – to which Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai does not appear fully committed. "Politically we have not handled this well. The United States does not have a fullpartner in this war,” said Rep. McCaul, Chairman of Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations and a member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee. “Unlike Iraq, our military is hamstrung by rules of engagement under Karzai that at times prevent us from fully engaging the enemy.”"Iraq will have challenges but I believe it will be able to stand on its own. However, I am not as optimistic that Afghanistan will be able to do the same even two years from now," said McCaul, citing progress and pockets of stability as result of U.S. Military operations.Congressman McCaul led a delegation of five members of the House Homeland Security Committee to Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq. In Afghanistan they were briefed by U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker; General John Allen, Commander of U.S. Operations in Afghanistan; and held numerous meetings with American and Afghan forces.PAKISTANCongressman McCaul emerged from Pakistan concerned about U.S. Military forecasts suggesting a 50-50 chance that extremists could take over the country within five years, potentially gaining control of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, if President Asif Ali Zardari does not take a stand.Meeting with Rep. McCaul, President Zardari expressed a commitment to eradicating the Haqqani terrorist network, which is primarily responsible for attacks on American forces in Afghanistan. However, McCaul remains unconvinced that President Zardari has enough control over his military and intelligence to follow through. Six months after U.S. Forces located and killed Osama Bin Laden one mile from Pakistan's military academy, Rep. McCaul made it clear to President Zardari that the terms of U.S.-Pakistani relations must change moving forward. "I tried to make it clear to him that foreign aide from the United States is in jeopardy, especially in the House," Congressman McCaul said. Zardari expressed his desire for increased trade between the two countries, making Pakistan less reliant on foreign aid, as a key to long-term trust.IRAQOnce U.S. forces exit Iraq at the end of this year the country should be able to stand on its own. However, Congressman McCaul is concerned about Iran's attempt to use "soft power" to infiltrate Iraq through its political system. "Eventually they have to stand up. We can't occupy and nation-build forever," said Rep. McCaul. "What you'll likely see in the future in the War on Terror is a base of operations in the region and we will have good intelligence, Special Forces and drones to deal with threats in a smarter, more efficientway."“I would advocate deployment of additional DHS personnel to train Iraqis to control their borders, monitor terrorist financing and build the capacity of the nation to fight terrorism,” Rep. McCaul added.Leaving the region, Congressman McCaul and the delegation spent Veterans Day at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany meeting with wounded American soldiers and personally thanking them for their service and their sacrifice.# # #
11.11.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) spent Veterans Day with wounded American military at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany. This morning he sent the letter below to constituents and veterans groups across the 10th District. Prior to their arrival in Germany, Rep. McCaul led a U.S. House Homeland Security Committee delegation to Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan this week to assess the progress in the War on Terror, Iraq's ability to sustain itself and avoid Iranian influence after U.S. withdrawal, and Pakistan's willingness and ability to share intelligence and take steps to eradicate the Haqqani network which continues its lethal strikes against U.S. Forces across the border in Afghanistan. More information about Congressman McCaul's visit to the region will be forthcoming. Congressman McCaul is Chairman of Homeland Security Investigations & Oversight and is a member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee. # # #
11.08.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari discussed the idea of increased trade between the two countries as the key to a long-term trust that is needed to advance their mutual interest of dismantling terrorists in the volatile region. Both leaders described U.S.-Pakistani relations as a "bad marriage where divorce is not an option" because of the shared threat of extremism both nations face. However, Rep. McCaul was clear that the terms of the relationship moving forward must change after it was revealed Osama Bin Laden had been living in close proximity to Pakistan's military academy before he was killed by U.S. forces. "I tried to make it clear to him that foreign aide from the United States is in jeopardy, especially in the House," Congressman McCaul said. "This directly reflects the sentiment of the American people." Congressman McCaul, who chairs Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations in the U.S. House and serves on the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee, led the only U.S. Congressional delegation to meet with President Zardari in Karachi. Rep. McCaul expressed that a trade agreement would boost Pakistan's economy, so reliance on American aid would be much less significant. Under President Zardari, Congressman McCaul noted, Pakistan has shown a move toward normalizing relations with neighboring India, which will allow Pakistan to divert more resources away from the Kashmir to fight the terrorists in the Federally Administrated Tribal Area (FATA). Those resources are needed to prevent terrorist organizations such as the Taliban and Haqqani network, the insurgency group fighting against U.S. forces in Afghanistan, from taking over Pakistan, and potentially gaining control of that country's nuclear arsenal. "I sense a willingness to work with the United States against a common enemy and I think it is in our nation's best interest to pursue strengthening our relationship," McCaul said. "The question is 'how much control does Zardari have over his own military and the ISI?'" Accompanying Rep. McCaul in the delegation were Congressmen Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Henry Cuellar (D–TX) and Gene Green (D-TX). # # #
11.07.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) led a delegation of House Homeland Security Committee members to visit U.S. troops in Afghanistan Sunday and receive a briefing on progress against terrorist networks. Congressman McCaul, after being briefed by Ryan Crocker, U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan, and Marine General John Allen, Commander of U.S. Forces in Afghanistan, indicated significant progress in the War on Terror in Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban, with greater challenges remaining in the northeastern Federally Administrated Tribal Areas (FATA). Rep. McCaul also met with the Joint Special Operations Command about terrorist apprehension and drone operations. Congressman McCaul is Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee and a member of the Foreign Affairs Middle East Subcommittee. Accompanying him on the tour are Congressmen Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA), Gene Green (D-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D–TX). Rep. McCaul with General John Allen Rep. McCaul with Ambassador Crocker Rep. McCaul visiting with US troops
10.21.2011	"The United States and our allies sacrificed many lives in Iraq in the name of freedom. We liberated the Iraqi people from a dictator, affected the birth of a democracy and helped instill human rights where there were few. Americans should be proud of these accomplishments. It is ultimately up to the people of Iraq to defend their freedom and democracy. " # # #
10.20.2011	"After four decades of tyranny and oppression the Libyan people are liberated. The United States should assist the National Transitional Council (NTC) in establishing a peaceful transition to democracy and stand with the Libyan people in their pursuit of the same freedoms that Americans have fought to defend." # # #
10.17.2011	AUSTIN, TX – The U.S. Forest Service testified that it will re-examine its approach to pre-positioning firefighting aircraft in the wake of the most devastating wildfire in Texas history. “We are interested in lessons learned,” said Tom Harbour, Director of U.S. Forest Service Fire & Aviation Assets, appearing before a congressional field hearing of the Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee, in Austin, TX.The complex fire in Bastrop County, east of Austin, destroyed more than 1,500 homes startingSunday, September 4. While several smaller firefighting aircraft were deployed to fight the fires, one of two privately-owned DC-10 tankers was not flown in and operational until the following Friday and four Department of Defense C-130’s did not arrive until Saturday."By then Bastrop's gone. The Bastrop fire has done its damage and it's near containment,” Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Austin), the committee Chairman, told Harbour. “To me, I think that's something that could have been avoided had we had more of these assets prepositioned."While the Forest Service claims crew rest caused delays for the DC-10, the owner of the air tanker maintains any delays could have been avoided had the aircraft been under long-term retainer contract. In such an agreement, multiple crews are on call and fire retardant loading systems, which took two days to truck in from California, are pre-positioned along with the aircraft.“We certainly will look to the future and see what we might do,” Harbour testified. Bastrop County was among the more than 21,000 wildfires in Texas in the past year that scorched 3.8 million acres, an area the size of Connecticut and Rhode Island combined, according to Nim Kidd, the state’s Emergency Management Assistant Director. Kidd testified that represents about one-third of what the U.S. Forest Service responds to in an average year nationwide.Monday’s hearing also addressed voluminous paperwork required by FEMA for counties to be eligible for reimbursement. At times, volunteer firefighters had to choose between fighting fires and filling outpaperwork in order to meet stringent deadlines. Also addressed were delays in reimbursement, sometimes as long as three years, for counties whose equipment has been used on an ongoing basis and is need of repair or replacement.“It's the ability to get all the information in order to properly validate what they are requesting,” testified Tony Russell, FEMA’s Region VI Administrator.“I understand accuracy to prevent fraud waste and abuse but three years?” Rep. McCaul asked. “It’s way too bureaucratic. I think we can streamline the process so reimbursement can take place more in real time because counties can’t afford it.”Congressman McCaul plans to work with FEMA and the National Forest Service to ensure improvements in pre-positioning resources and that less cumbersome application processes are in place for future disasters.Complete Hearing VIDEO (Real Player Required) # # #
10.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Two decorated, retired U.S. Army Generals testified during a Homeland Security oversight hearing that the Mexican drug cartels are increasing their operational presence in the United States, are responsible for violent crimes on U.S. soil and pose a threat to our national security. The latter point was most recently underscored by Iran’s thwarted plot to contract with a drug cartel toassassinate the Saudi ambassador to the U.S. “This is a threat. This is one that we have been warning about for years. This makes it that much more imperative that the border is secure,” said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who chaired Friday’s hearing, and demonstrated Iran’s connections to the Western Hemisphere. “In 2008 the… Sinaloa drug cartel was sending elite assassins to train on weapons and explosives with Islamic radicals in Iran. We know there is heavy presence of Hezbollah in the western hemisphere. Here we have the Iranian operative who thinks he’s contracting with these drug cartels.”“As we get better at detecting and tracking terrorists from these named countries, theterrorists get more committed at coming to America through our unprotected borders,” testified General Robert Scales, who co-authored the report. “If a guy from Iran shows up, and has a million and a half dollars to smuggle him across the border, they are more than happy to do it. Our great concern is how many have we missed?”“It’s hard to imagine us protecting America from a terrorism threat if we don’t have a unified federal law enforcement strategy to protect America’s borders,” said General Barry McCaffrey, the report’s lead author.The Generals’ testimony, based on their report Texas Border Security: A Strategic Military Assessment released last month, further asserts that “federal agencies have yet to establish effective operational control of much of the border and that the drug cartels are attempting to establish safe havens in Texas as a launching point into the rest of theUnited States. Their strategy, according to the report, is to influence all levels of government throughout the Americas and establish sanctuary zones in the U.S. one county deep. The report further cites poorly resourced U.S. tactical efforts to stop cartel incursions, vulnerability to corruption, and the increasing likelihood that competition to control distribution territories and corridors will result in greater violence in Texas, as the Mexican military gains more control in Mexico.While critics cite statistics that indicate cities such as El Paso are safe based on the FBI’s Uniform Crime Report, both Generals reminded the panel that much of the violence and incursions occur in porous, rural areas, and that the UCR does not take into account crimes such as kidnappings and extortions notoriously carried out by cartels.Texas Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples (R-TX), who commissioned the report, cautioned getting too wrapped up in statistics. He cited FBI disclaimers that UCR statistics “are incomplete analysis that often creates misleading perceptions”.“We are not here today to focus on statistics,” Staples testified. “The purpose of the report was to move beyondwhat comments might be made by elected leaders and to put this into the hands of those who have impeccable credentials, and I think from what I have heard, we are all in agreement that we don’t want to surrender one part of Texas or one part of America to these drug cartel members.”“What I would like to do is cut through the politics for a minute,” said Gen. Scales, citing recommendations in his report to stop cartel advancement including improvedcommunications and intelligence gathering, more resources at the tactical level, increased joint U.S.-Mexico operations, and more cost-effective, off-the-shelf technology.“As we draw down in the Afghan conflict, it is my hope that we can channel those resources to this threat,” said Rep. McCaul, who has long advocated for use of existing DOD resources to secure the border, and yesterday passed several amendments through the Homeland Security Committee to double resources to intercept southboundweapons and cash, and streamline the agency. # # #
10.13.2011	"My priority is to fix the Department of Homeland Security and this authorization bill is a step in the right direction. We know from the hearings in my Oversight Subcommittee as well as reports from contractors and multiple agencies in the federal government that DHS is dysfunctional. Approving this authorization bill sets the department on the right path to turn DHS into a more effective organization. More streamlined and efficient processes, improved contracting guidelines, combined with shifting resources to where they are needed most, will allow DHS to focus more narrowly on its core mission to protect the homeland and at the same time save taxpayers money."# # #
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX) passed legislation through the House Homeland Security Committee today, which would more than double the budget for border security teams that interdict southbound cash and weapons that fund and arm the Mexican drug cartels.The additional $15.4 million for ICE’s Border Enforcement Security Task Force, better known as BEST Teams, would come at no additional cost to taxpayers. The funding comes from the cancellation of the DHS’s Advanced Spectroscopic Portal Program, which backed off purchasing millions of dollars in radiation detection equipment found to be unreliable. DHS announced the reversal during Chairman McCaul’s Oversight hearing in July. “We are taking a failed program and focusing resources on what we know already works and where we know the problem exists,” said Congressman McCaul. “I have been down to the border and seen the direct benefits of the BEST teams interdicting the southbound flow of cash and weapons. What better way to strangle the lifeblood of the cartels by stopping the flow of cash and weapons that fund and arm them.”“I will continue to work together with Congressman McCaul in ensuring we allocate the needed funds for the BEST Teams, which started in Laredo, Texas, in the 28th District of Texas that I represent,” Congressman Cuellar said. “BEST Teams have proven to be effective in cooperating with other lawenforcement agencies insecuring and protecting the southern border as well as stopping the illegal flow of firearms and money.”BEST Teams have proven successful since their inception. In FY’11, they confiscated more than $17 million dollars in currency, 886 vehicles, more than two million rounds of ammunition, and 2,001 weapons. Additionally, since FY’10 they have accounted for 3,831 criminal arrests, 2,188 indictments and 1,869 convictions.Other amendments Congressmen McCaul and Cuellar passed through the DHS markup aimed at operating DHS more efficiently and saving taxpayer dollars would:Secure two (2) additional UAV’s for the Southwest border using funding already within the budget of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Air & Marine Utilize Department of Defense Tethered Aerostat Radar Systems no longer needed in Iraq and Afghanistan for use along the Southwest Border for surveillance. Create the Border Area Security Initiative authorizes Operation Stonegarden Grants for the first time at the FY11 appropriated level of $54,890,000. It also guarantees that 80.7% of this money goes to the southern border. Standardize detection, as well as aviation and marine equipment purchases to gain buying power, streamline the acquisitionprocess, address procurement issues, and improve control and oversight of asset purchases.# # #
10.11.2011	"The actions by the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, in a plot 'conceived, sponsored, and directed from Iran', indicates to me this was condoned by the Iranian government. If this was indeed government-sponsored, then this would constitute an act of war not only against the Saudis and Israelis but against the United States as well. The fact that elements of the Iranian government targeted a Mexican drug cartel to carry out a high level assassination is further evidence that the cartels are perceived as terrorists willing to participate in a lucrative, violent scheme inside the United States. Even though the cartels did not actively engage in this plot, this event underscores the value that international terrorists place on the cartels, their access to weapons and their ease of illegal movement across our Southwest border that is far fromsecure. I am continuing to pursue a strategy to secure the border and use every tool available to stop the advancement of Mexican drug cartels inside the U.S. I urge this administration to join me in this effort."# # #
10.06.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) announced today that Klein’s Supermarket, a Tomball landmark for 89 years, which closed its doors in April, will be the new home for Tomball’s VA community-based outpatient clinic (CBOC). The Veterans’ Administration entered into a 20-year lease agreement for that property, aswell as a similar agreement for a CBOC in Katy, at 750 Westgreen Boulevard. “This is an exciting day for the thousands of veterans who for years have been looking forward to the convenience of going to the doctor in their own community,” said Congressman McCaul, who cut through five years of red tape at the VA to bring the clinics to this point. “Thousands of veterans in northwest Harris County and many in Austin, Waller and Washington Counties, can start plotting a much shorter drive to see their doctor instead of driving all the way to the Medical Center in Houston. They fought for our freedom and the least we can do is provide them care close to home.”“I am particularly excited about the Tomball location. This could not be a better fit for the community, our veterans, and for the Klein family,” Rep. McCaul said.Staff from Congressman McCaul’s office met with the developer of the Klein’s site Thursday, hired by the VA to transform the former grocery into a much-needed health care facility. Klein’s Supermarket, located at 1200 West Main Street in Tomball, has 31,628 square feet of usable space and will be converted rather than demolished. The Katy location has 29,785 usable square feet.Each location was chosen by an independent site selection team. The VA anticipates construction of each facility to be complete in the summer of 2012 and that they will open to patients in the fall of 2012.When completed, the Tomball and Katy CBOC’s are each expected to accommodate 65,000 annual patient visits. Each will provide comprehensive primary care and mental health services. Primary care will consist of health promotion, maintenance, routine and urgent care procedures and education. Mental health services will provide medication management, screening and prevention for mental health disorders including evaluation for mental illness, substance abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and sexual trauma counseling. Congressman McCaul remains committed to overseeing the construction process and holding the VA accountable to timely completion of each clinic. # # #
10.05.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.– For the second time in three weeks, the Obama administration refused to clarify its policy on granting work permits to illegal immigrants. “Can you tell me if this is the policy of this administration?” Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) repeatedly asked Kumar Kibble, Deputy Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, before Tuesday’s Homeland Security Border and Maritime Subcommittee hearing.While Kibble testified, “They can certainly apply for work authorization but there is no automatic grant of work authorization,” there is also no automatic denial of work permits for applicants found to be in the United States illegally.On August 18, the New York Times reported, “Those who qualify for relief can apply for permission to work in the United States and will probably receive it, officials said.”“I don’t know who these administration officials are who said this, but that kind of statement from this administration really calls into question this policy,” Rep. McCaul said. “Prosecutorial discretion is nothing knew. But to say that they can ‘stay in the country and apply for work permits’ that goes a whole step farther and actually goes around, I think, the will of the Congress.”On September 13, Congressman McCaul questioned ICE Deputy Associate Director Peter Edge on work authorization for visa overstays. ICE referred the question to another agency, even though ICE assumes the responsibility for enforcing our nation’s immigration and customs laws.Congressman McCaul also expressed concern about national security implications of such a policy, citing Mohammed Atta, one of the 9/11 hijackers who overstayed his visa but did not have a criminal record.“If Mohammed Atta was pulled over in a traffic stop would he be let go and allowed to stay in the country to apply for a work permit?” Rep. McCaul asked hypothetically. “What is the threshold? He gets pulled over for a traffic stop. Is that enough to deport him? I don’t think it is under your policy.”“I can’t speak to that particular case,” Kibble responded.# # #
09.30.2011	"Thanks to the efforts of our military and Intelligence Community, this is a significant victory in the War on Terror and a major blow to Al Qaeda. It greatly diminishes their capacity to carry out terror attacks in the United States. Anwar al Awlaki became the inspiration of radical Islam and a mastermind of recruitment of American Muslims to carry out attacks on U.S. soil. We know he was in direct contact with Major Nidal Hasan before the Fort Hood shootings and that he was in contact with or had influence over the suspects who attempted to carry out 36 plots against the United States over the past three years. This victory represents strong cooperation between the U.S. and Yemen. We need to maintain pressure and continue to eliminate the leaders of al Qaeda." # # #
09.23.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) introduced legislation that would incentivize pharmaceutical companies to develop new drugs for rare pediatric diseases, such as childhood cancers, that have not been developed in decades because they are not profitable. Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Scott Brown (R-MA) introduced a companion bill, S. 606.The Creating Hope Act of 2011, introduced on the day of the 2nd annual Childhood Cancer Summit, would expand the cost-neutral Food and Drug Administration priority review voucher (PRV)program, allowing pharmaceutical companies to expedite FDA review of more profitable drugs in return for developing treatments for rare pediatric diseases. Since 1980, the FDA has approved only one drug for treatment of childhood cancer, compared to 50 for adults.Pediatric cancer remains the number one disease killer of American children, with about 35 children diagnosed every day. While survival rates have greatly improved for some types of pediatric cancers, 2,300 children are lost to this disease every year and thousands more encounter complications related to the harsh adult treatment. Furthermore, the lack of age-appropriate treatment options means that three out of five children who are lucky enough to survive these grueling battles will sufferfrom life-altering and/or life-threatening consequences resulting from harsh treatments developed and intended for adult patients.“They win the war against cancer, only to battle the onset of other serious conditions the rest of their lives,”said Congressman McCaul, the founder and co-chairman of the House Childhood Cancer Caucus, which hosts the Summit. “The Creating Hope Act offers the best chance of encouraging pharmaceutical companies to develop treatments for children at no cost to taxpayers.” “Encouraging the development of innovative and effective treatments for patients diagnosed with rare diseases, especially children, is vitally important,” said Congressman Butterfield. Whether a disease is rare or common, the need for effective care and potential cures is the same. The Creating Hope Act of 2011 provides a much needed incentive to promote research and development that will ultimately save lives.”“I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing the bipartisan Creating Hope Act. The goal of this legislation is to kick start private sector investment in new treatments for rare diseases affecting children, including childhood cancers,” said Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), co-chair of the Childhood Cancer Caucus. “It is time we help put the health care industry to work researching and developing treatments to help children and families who are struggling with these dreaded diseases.”The cancers in children are different from cancers in adults, such that drugs developed to treat an adult malignancy, such as colon cancer, may not be useful for a cancer that occurs in children, such as neuroblastoma.“A growing number of promising new drugs are being developed to treat cancers that occur in adults, but the biopharmaceutical industry rarely develops new drugs specifically to treat cancer in children,” said Dr. Peter Adamson, Chairman of the Children’s Oncology Group. Despite this significant unmet medical need, pharmaceutical companies have been reluctant to develop drugs for rare pediatric diseases because it requires making an investment in products that are unlikely to cover the high costs associated with their research, development, marketing and distribution. Developing products for children is particularly challenging because of the difficulties associated with conducting clinical trials on this patient population.The Creating Hope Act of 2011 will:Expand the Priority Review voucher program to include treatments for pediatric rare diseases, such as childhood cancers.Close a loophole in current law to prevent companies from receiving a voucher for products thatthey already market in other countries.Offer unlimited transferability of vouchers to create a more easily traded asset.Provide greater certainty to sponsors by permitting them to seek a designation from FDA before they submit their new drug application that the drug, if approved, will qualify for a voucher.Strengthen reporting and marketing requirements by requiring that the sponsor submit a statement of good faith intent to market the eligible drug. “My son, Jacob, died of brain cancer two years ago because there were no effective drugs available to him. The Creating Hope Act gives us all hope that one day, children with brain cancer will not have to suffer Jacob's fate,” said Nancy Goodman, Founder of Kids v. Cancer.Children, who suffer from rare pediatric diseases such as cancers, pediatric AIDS, cystic fibrosis, Tay-Sachs and sickle cell disease, make up the vast majority of the 30 million Americans who suffer from rare diseases, according to the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD).Creating Hope Act Cosponsors as of Friday morning:Michael McCaul (R-TX)G.K. Butterfield (D-NC)Sue Myrick (R-NC)Chris Van Hollen (D-MD)Dr. Michael Burgess (R-TX)Jackie Speier (D-CA)Mike Kelly (R-PA)Hank Johnson (D-GA)Brian Bilbray (R-CA)Danny Davis (D-IL)Edolphus Towns (D-NY)Donna Christensen (D-Virgin Islands)Bobby Rush (D-IL)Henry Cuellar (D-TX)Pete Olson (R-TX)Frank Wolf (R-VA)Dr. Charles Boustany (R-LA)Cathy McMorris Rogers (R-WA)Geoff Davis (R-KY)Bill Keating (D-MA)# # #The following groups and businesses have endorsed the legislation:Aeras Global TB Vaccine FoundationAmerican Society of Clinical OncologyAmerican Society of Pediatric Hematology and OncologyAmerican Society for Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (ASTMH)Association of Pediatric Oncology Social WorkersBio Ventures for Global Health, Chai LifelineChildren's Brain Tumor FoundationChildren’s Cause for Cancer Advocacy (CCCA)Children’s Hospital of PhiladelphiaChildren’s Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMCCSL BehringCureSearchGlaxoSmithKlineGenzymeKids v CancerLeukemia & Lymphoma SocietyMadisons FoundationMedicines for Malaria Venture (MMV)MerckMetronomixThe National Association of Children’s HospitalsThe National Children's Cancer SocietyNational Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD)The National Tay-Sachs & Allied Diseases AssociationNovartisPennsylvania BIOSarcoma Foundation of AmericaShireTB Alliance
09.16.2011	BOSTON, MA – Behavior analysis of passengers at U.S. airports will add an enhanced layer of screening to prevent terrorist attacks and will help to eliminate the invasive screenings of passengers who are more obvious non-threats. That testimony came during today's field hearing of the U.S. House Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee at Boston Logan International Airport."As a member of Congress we often hear complaints," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who chairs the subcommittee. "Why are we treating all Americans as an equal threat? Shouldn't we be more risk-based? Shouldn't we be looking more at the real threat than the grandmother? And I think that's the more common-sense approach. And I think that's an approach that this behavior detection program seeks to do: looking not at every individual as an equal threat but let's look at the behavior of the individual to spot those potential threats. How we can get beyond the day where the grandmother is patted down, the World War II veteran is patted down and the child is patted down.The behavior analysis pilot program, based on the Israeli model, began at Logan Airport in August and could be extended to airports across the country. Unlike behavior observation already in place in most U.S. airports, the program at Logan involves agents asking passengers questions as they move through security before boarding their flight. The questions asked are similar in nature to those already asked of international passengers and give agents better ability to weed out potential threats."We're looking for the reactions, the behaviors. And we're also looking for inconsistencies in their story. And that is refining our process so that we will treat people differently," testified Admiral (Ret.) George Naccara, the Transportation Security Administration's Federal Security Director. "Our goal is to minimize the pat downs that are conducted on a child 12 and under. As you suggested they are much lower risk."Logan International was the launch pad for two of the aircraft involved in the 9/11 attacks: American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, which slammed into the North and South Towers of New York’s World Trade Center. Since 9/11, Logan has become a security model for the nation's airports, often the test ground for the latest technological security innovations. Among the changes compared with 10 years ago, Logan has consolidated 11 points of access into two military grade fortified entrances. It now has a 10-foot-high concrete wall perimeter instead of an eight foot fence and has bomb-resistant trash receptacles. It was the first major airport to have 100% biometric access control to restricted areas of the airport. Because Logan is partially surrounded by water, the Massachusetts Port Authority has even deputized the clammers who fish off the end of Logan's runways, recruiting them as additional eyes and ears to report suspicious activity."To sit here and think not too far from where we sit Mohammad Atta and his band of hijackers slipped through detection, slipped through our security and got onto those airplanes and proceeded to kill 3,000 people gives me a tremendous sense of sorrow, but also obligation to make this place more secure," said Rep. McCaul. # # #PHOTO: Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), with Congressman Bill Keating (D-MA) chairs a homeland security field hearing at Boston Logan Airport on the status of airport security.
09.12.2011	AUSTIN, TX – One of two DC-10’s and half of the military’s fleet of eight C-130’s are now indefinitely pre-positioned in Texas to fight wildfires, National Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell assured Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) after McCaul expressed deep concerns about delayed response to the Bastrop fires. The Forest Service committed to keep the DC-10 and C-130’s stationed at Austin Bergstrom International Airport for the foreseeable future while fire danger remains high. “We’ve known and Washington has known that Texas has been a tinderbox for months. The right approach is to have federal aviation assets strategically prepositioned to deploy within hours instead of days,” said Congressman McCaul. “This has to be a priority moving forward and I plan to explore this in an oversight hearing.” Rep. McCaul plans a hearing into the overall response to the fires before the subcommittee he chairs, which oversees all Department of Homeland Security operations. “While everyone has worked feverishly to save lives andproperty, I am greatly concerned by the cumbersome protocols in place for requesting assistance,” Rep. McCaul said. “In my estimation they prevented firefighting assets from being utilized, even when fires were at zero percent containment and people were desperate. Help should be a phone call away, not an act of Congress.” NOAA and NASA predicted long-term drought and fire issues in Texas several months ago. Yet the White House denied repeated requests from the State of Texas to approve ongoing disaster declarations, no federal aviation assets were pre-positioned and no large private assets were under exclusive contract. The DC-10 that sat idle on the tarmac in Austin for days until it was deployed to fight wildfires could have been operational much sooner had the National Forest Service agreed to an exclusive use contract with 10 Tanker, which owns the DC-10, or other private firefighting services that utilize converted wide-body jetliners. Exclusive use agreements would contractually obligate tanker planes such as 10 Tanker’s DC-10’s long-term. In turn, the agreement would ensure a revenue stream, allowing the company to hire extracrews who are on standby and to build multiple fire retardant loading systems within striking distance of the most fire-prone areas. “When I toured Waller County they said the DC-10 was like ‘the Cavalry coming in’ and it made a difference in Bastrop in the run it made before it was diverted. Had it been on the ground here a week ago it would have made a huge difference,” McCaul said.# # #
08.24.2011	HOUSTON, TX – The port that brings in one-quarter of America's oil, half of its refined products and one-eighth of the gasoline consumed is vulnerable to the type of terrorist attack that al Qaeda plots to carry out, despite unprecedented security measures. Wednesday's Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee field hearing laid out the threat based on information obtained from Osama Bin Laden’s compound which confirmed oil tankers as a potential target that would cause economic devastation to the United States. Each day 25-30 tankers transit the Houston Ship Channel."We know from the (bin Laden) documents they want to go back to their playbook of attacking tankers," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who chaired the hearing at the Port of Houston Authority. "This is the kind of scenario we want to prevent and that is the purpose of the hearing today."A Government Accountability Office (GAO) report on terrorist attacks targeting energy tankers states the supply chain faces three types of threats: suicide attacks with explosive-laden boats, similar to the one used against the USS Cole in the Gulf of Aden; standoff attacks with weapons launched from a distance, such as rocket propelled grenades; and an armed assault, as used by pirates off the coast of Africa. A successful attack could cripple the nation's energy supply."You don't have to blow up an Exxon (refinery along the Ship Channel). You can shut down access to the waterway and shut down refining capability," testified James Edmonds, Chairman of the Port of Houston Authority. "There are all kinds of arteries of movement and if you (stop) any one of these it's a devastating economic impact. It could sure happen and it could happen quickly and easily.""What makes us unique in Houston is refineries," Capt (RET) Bill Diehl, President of the Greater Houston Port Bureau, testified. "You can shut down a container port and move up the coast to the next one. You can't package up a refinery. You can't take those pipelines and pull them out of the ground and ship them to New Orleans." Security along the Houston Ship Channel is considered a model for other ports in the nation, in large part because of the Port of Houston's unique partnership with industry. Private sector stakeholders have ensured that limited federal grant dollars and their own security budgets are spent efficiently on projects that are needed most. This comprehensive approach involving industry has moved Houston to the second largest recipient of DHS Port Security Grants.Priorities revealed during the hearing include dredging the Houston Ship Channel. Presently at 45 feet deep, it needs to reach 50 feet by 2014 to accommodate larger ships that will begin to traverse the Panama Canal. Last year the Port of Houston sent $125 million to the federal Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. However, the Obama administration proposes returning only $23 million to the Houston Ship Channel, well short of the $88 million recommended by the Army Corps of Engineers to help pay for dredging. Another priority is to speed up the grant process which currently moves too slow to give ports a timely funding source for projects.Following the hearing, as part of his oversight duties, Chairman McCaul toured the Ship Channel to assess security operations with the U.S. Coast Guard, Harris County Sheriffs Deputies, port and industry representatives. # # #
08.08.2011	"My prayers are with the families of our military killed in action when they were shot down over Afghanistan this weekend. Our nation's loss hits close to home as one of our fallen was CPO Stephen Matthew Mills of Bastrop, just outside my district. CPO Mills was a member of the Navy SEALs, a husband and a father. The courage displayed by CPO Mills and his fellow SEALs is inspiring. We honor their ultimate sacrifice for the cause of freedom. Please keep the families of all of these brave men and women in your prayers."
07.28.2011	"This is another indication that radical Muslims want to attack our military installations. It is at least the eighth plot or attack against our military since 9/11 and the sixth in the past two years. We need to know what outside connection the suspects had, whether they coordinated with al Qaeda or were in direct contact with Anwar al Awlaki as we know that Major Hasan was before the Fort Hood shooting. During yesterday's Homeland Security hearing on radicalization I asked whether any of the witnesses disagreed with the notion that the radicalization of Muslim youth in this country poses a threat to our homeland security. The silence spoke volumes. We know that PFC Abdo applied for and received conscientious objector status on the eve of his first deployment to Afghanistan. Reports of the arsenal that he purchased at the same gun store as Maj. Hasan indicates this plot could have been significant. Our nation owes a debt of gratitude to the gun dealer who sensed something was wrong and alerted authorities."
07.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2011 passed the House Science, Space and Technology Committee and will advance to a vote on the House floor. H.R. 2096, introduced by Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Dan Lipinski (D-IL) takes an essential step to secure our federal computer networks from espionage and our critical infrastructure from destruction. Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ) has introduced companion legislation. The Act will help harden federal networks, spur research and development, build our American cyber workforce and enable the government, universities and private sector to collaborate more easily. A similar bill passed the House in 2010, by a vote of 422-5.The bill passage comes as federal authorities announce progress investigating two high profile cyber attacks. This week 20 people were arrested in the United States and Europe for cyber attacks on major U.S. companies, including PayPal, in retaliation for its suspending the accounts of Wikileaks. Just last month an anarchic community of hackers declared war on the city of Orlando. “The cyber threat is real and it’s here now. Domestic cyber threats are increasing at an alarming rate,” said Rep. McCaul, who co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President, which presented the report Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidency to President Obama detailing recommendations for securing the country’s government networks and critical infrastructure. “All of our critical infrastructure is tied to cyber networks whether it be our utilities, power grids, financial institutions, or air traffic control system. Virtually every sector is vulnerable. I hope as with 9/11 we don’t turn a blind eye and have a denial of service attack before we address this issue.” “This is a good bill, and it represents an important step in Congress’s overall efforts to addresscybersecurity issues,” said Committee Chairman Ralph Hall (R-TX). “Every passing day brings fresh evidence of the serious threat that cybercrime poses to individuals, families, businesses, government, and our national security,” said Congressman Lipinski, the Research and Science Education Subcommittee Ranking Member, who introduced the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act in the 111thCongress. “From breaches at financial, consumer, and computer security companies to the most damaging cyber attack on our military to date, this year has brought story after story that underlines the urgency of combating cybercrime. The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act will help ensure we have the highly skilled people and the cutting-edge research and technologies we need to protect not only our critical infrastructure and federal and military computer networks, but also the general public, which increasingly relies on the internet. It has been more than a year since the House passed this bill by an overwhelming margin, and in that time cybercrime has only gotten worse. I am hopeful that Congress will recognize that reality and pass this bill as soon as possible."“Importantly, this bill seeks to enhance U.S. economic and national security without layering prescriptive regulations on U.S. businesses,” said R. Bruce Josten with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which urges passage of the legislation.The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act incorporates several key recommendations of the CSIS Commission report. Improves Coordination in government: Gives National Institute of Standards and Technology the authority to set security standards for federal computer systems and develop checklists for agencies to follow.Improves Coordination outside of government: Creates a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development.Improves R&D: Establishes Cybersecurity research and development grant programs.Improves quality of cyber professionals: Creates scholarship programs at NSF that can be repaid with federal service. Requires the President to conduct an assessment of cybersecurity workforce needs across the Federal government.H.R. 2096 is fiscally responsible. It is intended to work within the boundaries of funds already authorized and appropriated to the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Institutes of Standards and Technology (NIST).Congressional hearings on cybersecurity have revealed most federal agencies have been hacked into, and that the federal government is under threat of cyber attack on a daily basis. Many attacks are classified as espionage with foreign countries stealing government information. One data dump was equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. Other attacks are believed to have been attempts to shut down federal networks and cause harm.
07.21.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced legislation to stop waste and mismanagement found in U.S. efforts to assist Mexico in its war against the drug cartels. Rep. McCaul introduced an amendment addressing this issue during today’s markup of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act before the House Foreign Affairs Committee. It passed unanimously.“One of the main reasons for which we provide Merida aid is to institutionalize the rule of law in Mexico by providing training programs for police, judges and prosecutors. USAID (United States Agency for International Development) was tasked to carry this out and gave about 90% of the contract to one company, which has a poor performance record,” said Rep. McCaul. “Competition will force USAID to do what they should have done in the first place: provide demonstrably effective training with real metrics and oversight.”AMENDMENTPrevents USAID from awarding more than 50% of the dollar amount of any contract to one company.· An Inspector General audit found that Management Services International (MSI) did not effectively carry out its responsibilities related to a three year, $44.1 million cost-type contract awarded in 2009. · The importance of contract performance and oversight is now greater as Merida moves toward work with Mexican justice institutions to improve transparency, oversight and accountability. Justice reforms, as called for in the Mexican constitution, are necessary in order to prosecute cartel members who are often untouchable and restore public confidence.
07.15.2011	Addresses DHS' Failure to Respond to Private Sector TechnologyVIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PpwyCEOvWzoWASHINGTON, D.C. - The Department of Homeland Security announced that it likely will not purchase more than $300 million worth of radiation detection equipment for use at US ports after a report by the Government Accountability Office exposed the equipment was unreliable. DHS' announcement came before Congressman Michael McCaul's Homeland Security Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee hearing."That is very concerning to me. We're talking about detecting radiation. This is nuclear threats against the United States and its homeland, dirty bombs perhaps in the homeland," Chairman McCaul (R-TX) told witnesses in response to the report criticizing DHS plans to purchase the Advanced Spectroscopic Portal machines, or ASP, while not performing operational tests. "The bottom line: it's been a snakebit program from day one," said David Maurer, Director of GAO's Homeland Security and Justice Team. "It's also not clear whether the new technology is better than existing technology that's already deployed on the borders." "We are pushing the envelope of physics so it hasn’t worked as well as we had hoped. But, we are buying a few of these machines to put in the field to try and understand why they don’t work and if they might be incrementally improved," responded DHS Undersecretary Dr. Tara O'Toole. Dr. O'Toole testified that in initial testing the ASP, which would allow for expedited, mass scanning of containers off-loaded from ships arriving at American ports, falsely detected high amounts of radiation up to 300 times per day at a single port. "We don’t think we’re going to procure this," Dr. O'Toole continued.Testimony came during today's hearing examining whether the Department of Homeland Security effectively leverages existing and emerging technologies, or whether it needlessly spends taxpayers' money to reinvent the wheel. "As an oversight committee our job is to help reduce the cost of government. With our nation’s record debt approaching $15 trillion, we need this now more than ever before," said Rep. McCaul, who has identified DHS as one area with great potential to reduce cost to taxpayers, specifically in regard to its aquistitions of technology. The GAO has identified technology and acquisition at DHS as an area of high risk, having greater vulnerability to waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement.A March 2011 DHS Inspector General audit cited the Department wasted taxpayer dollars by failing to coordinate and consolidate purchases of metal detectors, explosive detection systems, and radiation detectors for screening people, baggage and cargo. A similar report in April 2011 revealed that commercial off-the-shelf equipment or existing contracts could have fulfilled the identified needs in 59% of DHS acquisition programs.Additionally, Congressman McCaul examined DHS failure to respond to private technology companies that attempt to do business with DHS. In one case, Rep. McCaul wrote three letters on behalf of a Texas company, which already has contracts with the Department of Defense for use of its equipment in Afghanistan, but received no response. "From our perspective, it appears that too frequently DHS components do not know what the larger department is doing, which leads to redundant efforts, slows the pace of technology adoption and can be wasteful of precious funding," testified James Williams of TechAmerica, which represents high tech companies. DHS testified its staff is too small to timely respond to private sector inquiries. "I find that to be inadequate," said Rep. McCaul.
07.13.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A second Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) will soon be based in Texas in an effort to help secure the U.S.-Mexico border. The Predator UAV is equipped with anelectro-optical/infrared sensor system that vastly improves the operational effectiveness in CBP missions and is-drone with synthetic aperture radar suitable for flights in darkness and inclement weather. By the end of 2011,the next UAV will be stationed at the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station alongside the Guardian UAV, which began service including maritime missions earlier this year.“That will give us six aircraft on the Southwest border and because of the ops concept and the way we fly them on any given day there could be three or more aircraft in Texas. And they’re routinely now flying nightly not only in the Rio Grande Valley but up through Laredo and up to El Paso,” testified Maj. Gen. Michael Kostelnik, who oversees U.S. Customers and Border Protection’s UAV program, responding to Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-Austin) and Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) during Tuesday’s Homeland Security subcommittee hearing.Congressmen McCaul and Cuellar have lead bipartisan efforts to increase the use of technology to secure the US-Mexico border. In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano in April, they requested that DHS increase UAV coverage in Texas.“Technology is part of the long-term solution to securing the border. An additional UAV in Texas will provide both federal and state law enforcement more of the surveillance capabilities they desperately require to get the upper hand on drugs and human trafficking coming north and the guns and cash that fund and arm the drug cartels going south,” said Rep. McCaul.“The addition will further allow CBP to receive precise, real time surveillance, allowing the deployment of fewer agents in a specific area, while retaining the ability to deter intrusions.”Presently, of the four UAVs located on the southern border, three are stationed in Arizona while one, which is classified as a maritime unit, is based in Texas. The Texas UAV, the Guardian, is assigned to the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station to uniquely perform surveillance of both the border region and Gulf of Mexico. Texas, however, shares 1,254 miles of border with Mexico compared with Arizona’s 370- mile boundary.# # #
07.12.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C.– The use of technology to secure our borders and airports alone costs taxpayers billions of dollars. This Friday, July 15, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) will convene a hearing to determine whether the Department of Homeland Security effectively leverages existing and emerging technologies, or whether DHS needlessly spends money to reinvent the wheel. Issues the hearing will examine include:- DHS programs have greater vulnerabilities to waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement according to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report identifying technology acquisition at DHS as an area of high risk.- DHS wasted taxpayer dollars by failing tocoordinate and consolidate purchases of metal detectors, explosive detection systems, and radiation detectors for screening people, baggage and cargo. CBP, TSA and other agencies have purchased an average $387 million of detection equipment in each of the last three years. Source: March 2011 DHS Inspector General audit. - Commercial off-the-shelf equipment or existing contracts could have fulfilled the identified needs in 59% of DHS acquisition programs. Source: April 2011 DHS Inspector General audit. - Before spending nearly $1 billion on SBInet, did DHS attempted to examine. the US Army’s Rapid Aerostat Initial Deployment (RAID)surveillance system, used successfully in Iraq and Afghanistan?DATE: Friday, July 15, 2011TIME: 10:00AM ETLOCATION: 311 Cannon House Office Building Washington, D.C. Live Web Stream on Committee Website Witness Panel I Mr. Charles K. EdwardsActing Inspector GeneralU.S.Department of Homeland SecurityMr. David MaurerDirectorHomeland Security and Justice TeamGovernment Accountability Office Mr. Rafael BorrasUnder Secretary for Management andChief Acquisition OfficerU.S.Department of Homeland Security Mr. Henry GonzalezDirectorAcquisition Support & Operations AnalysisScience and Technology DirectorateU.S.Department Homeland Security Witness Panel II Mr. Marc PearlPresident and CEOHomeland Security & Defense Business CouncilMr. Jim WilliamsVice ChairHomeland Security CommitteeTechAmerica Chairman McCaul on the hearing:"As an oversight committee our job is to help reduce the cost of government. When it comes to protecting our homeland, whether it's securing our borders or screening for explosives at our airports, this hearing will examine if the Department of Homeland Security leverages existing technologies to accomplish its mission or needlessly spends millions of taxpayer dollars reinventing the wheel. The Department has already spent millions of dollars developing new technologies only to find there are adequate off the shelf technologies that could accomplish the same objectives. We must streamline the DHS contracting process, find technologies that work and reduce burdens on the taxpayer." # # #
07.08.2011	Statement entered into the official House Record by Congressman McCaul, Co-Chair of the House Sudan Caucus:Title:Extension to Remarks on the Republic of South Sudan's Decleration of IndependenceHon. & Members Offical Name:Hon. Michael T. McCaulMember's Name as it Appears in Official Record:Mr. McCaul**Type Extension to Remarks below, the space alloted will expand as you type**I rise today to speak in recognition and support of Republic of South Sudan which will tomorrow become Africa’s 54th country. As a co-chair of the House Sudan Caucus, I am grateful for the accomplishment of this successful milestone in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement process that has ended Sudan’s 22 year civil war. In the past two decades, this civil war and famine took the lives of approximately two million people in Sudan.The ability for South Sudan to declare for itself its own country is a testament to what can be achieved when a unified international community made of nation states, international organizations, and non-governmental organizations all come together to foster peace and assist in the resolution of difference between peoples.Yet, the people of South Sudan still face many challenges. There is more infrastructure to be built, governmental processes to be developed, and a new currency to be established. There are also unsettled issues with its neighbor, the Republic of Sudan, such as ending violence and suffering in Darfur, a long term oil revenue sharing agreement, border demarcation, fair distribution of debts, and establishing the qualifications for citizenship.Tomorrow, we will celebrate the birth of a new nation. However, with this tremendous event should come a renewed commitment from the world to preserve peace and cultivate a bright and stable future for the South Sudanese people.”
07.08.2011	Statement by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX); member of the House Science, Space & Technology Committee; Space & Aeronautics Subcommittee; on the end of the Space Shuttle program:Today we say Godspeed to the crew of Atlantis and farewell to a successful era of American space exploration. For the past thirty years, the Space Shuttle has been the focus of manned spaceflight. We should salute the thousands of men and women at NASA and companies with whom it contracts for their service to our nation and their contributions to mankind. Their work is a testament to American ingenuity that has impacted all areas of modern life.While the world is focused on the final shuttle launch today, it is important that we also focus on the future of human space exploration. In the near term, the United States will be without the ability to send astronauts into space for the first time since 1961. NASA is building the new Space Launch System and Multipurpose Crew Vehicle to return us to space. This should be a priority for Congress to fund in order to minimize our dependency on Russia and avoid losing our leadership in space exploration. The greatest challenge is a lack of a plan and destination for future manned missions. Without this focus, we risk losing the vision that inspires our next generation of scientists and engineers, and the innovations that come along with them. NASA needs to decide on, and the administration should fully support, a goal for human space exploration. Only then can we secure America’s dominance in space and inspire future generations.
07.07.2011	VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t8vsddxpwr8WASHINGTON, D.C. - The US Semiconductor Industry testified before Congressman Michael McCaul's Oversight & Investigations Subcommittee hearing that a DHS policy established in 2008 has opened the floodgates to counterfeit microchips entering the US market. The US military purchased 59,000 counterfeit microchips from China in 2010. Chairman McCaul (R-TX) said the weakness in security raises concerns that military equipment could malfunction placing US troops in undue dangerous situations. It also raises the concern that rogue nations could use counterfeit chips to help them hack into federal computer networks, possibly exposing sensitive information to espionage.The Department of Homeland Security helps chip makers verify authenticity. However, in 2008 DHS changed its policy and stopped sending companies photos with serial numbers and other identifying information which is necessary for a company to determine whether a product is authentic or counterfeit. Brian Toohey, President of the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), testified it is now impossible to make this determination, and easier for counterfeit chips to enter the marketplace.04:31 – 5:24 (Time Code on YouTube Video)McCaul: "You want to help the government identify counterfeit chips and it’s my understanding that the lawyers at the Department have now determined that they cannot give you this information unless they have basically taken all of the identifying information off of it. How can you possibly identify if something is counterfeit when they have taken off all the code numbers?"Toohey: "You’re exactly right, Mr. Chairman. You can’t."McCaul: "So as a result of this legal policy or analysis that was done, we probably have Godknows how many counterfeit chips coming into this country and we’re excluding the private sector from being able to assist DHS in identifying counterfeit chips coming into the country, is that correct?"Toohey: "That’s exactly correct Mr. Chairman, we’re desperate to help. We’ve been begging Treasury and DHS to let us help stop these dangerous chips that are coming in."
06.29.2011	I am appalled at the offensive decision by the Houston VA Cemetery Director to purge American citizens of their rights to free speech and religion. Her attempts at religious censorship on veterans' cemetery grounds only adds to the pain that grieving families feel when laying to rest loved ones who have fought and died for the very same freedoms she now denies. I am equally appalled that this administration is attempting to defend her actions in court. This is an affront to all veterans, and to the constitutional and historic foundations of our nation, which I reject.
06.23.2011	"Not only has this president made it more difficult to produce energy in America, making us more dependent on foreign countries, now he is depleting our reserves by releasing four percent to the world market. Once again, this president puts the needs of foreign countries ahead of our own. The U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve was established for emergencies that threaten our national security, not for a political crisis."
06.23.2011	"The generals in charge of this operation recommended to the president that we withdrawal 5,000 troops at the end of this year and then assess the situation based on conditions on the ground. Unfortunately this president rejected the advice of his top military advisors in the field and instead decided to go forward with a political calculation geared toward the next election. This complete withdrawal of our surge forces jeopardizes the substantial progress we have made toward victory and undermines our troops." "We do need to diminish our presence in Afghanistan. However, the president's plan sends a message to the terrorists that they will soon be able to reconstitute and more freely plot attacks against the United States. Terrorist groups still have a strong presence in Afghanistan. And as demonstrated before my subcommittee, Pakistan remains a terrorist safe haven. We have to eliminate the terrorists’ base of operations where they have the ability to recruit, train and plan their operations in order to prevent attacks on American soil."
06.17.2011	"The president should extend deployment indefinitely until we bring in enough federal agents and resources to secure the border. Right now we are nowhere close. The cartels have operational control over much of the border and we've seen a trend over the past year of our state and local law enforcement being shot at and assaulted on a regular basis. This is a war and the administration needs to recognize it and treat it as such."
06.15.2011	"I commend the SEC for its determination that those who were swindled out of their hard-earned money by the Stanford Group should qualify for protected 'customer' status under the Securities Investor Protection Act. As I stated before the Financial Services Committee last month, this status is necessary to fulfill what I believe is our obligation to help the victims in this case recover as much as they can. These are families, many of them retired, who in many cases trusted Stanford with their life savings, only to have it disappear and be left with nothing. Many of my constituents were hurt by the fraud committed by the Stanford Group. While I am pleased with this ruling, the Congress is continuing to investigate why the SEC allowed this fraud to continue even after it received initial warnings that something was wrong."
06.14.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Symantec Corp., a global leader in security, storage and systems management solutions, awarded Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) its Cyber 4 Award for excellence in federal cybersecurity policy, specifically recognizing his “strong leadership, innovative approaches and willingness to go above and beyond to make a difference”.“It is an honor that Symantec has recognized my work on an issue of utmost importance to our national and economic security,” said Rep. McCaul. “With a few clicks of a mouse, our adversaries can bring down our power grids, financial institutions, and telecommunications lines. Anything tied to the Internet is vulnerable to attack, which is why it is imperative that we secure our federal networks. A cyber attack on theinterests of the United States could cause grave damage to our critical infrastructure and greater economic damage than we sustained on 9/11.”"Congressman McCaul is on the front lines, shaping important policy and protecting our critical data infrastructures. Symantec – along with our platinum sponsors, General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems and HP – is honored to recognize his leadership, dedication, and innovation,” said GiGi Schumm, Vice President and General Manager for Symantec Public Sector.Congressman McCaul has taken a lead role in federal technology and cybersecurity policy. He is a co-founder and co-chair of both the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus and the Congressional High Tech Caucus, and is vice chair of the Speaker’s High Tech Working Group. He has been instrumental in raising awareness about proactively addressing cybersecurity, while embracing the importance of technology innovation and a strong public-private partnership to combat threats and protect our nation’s critical infrastructure. Rep. McCaul co-chaired the Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency, which developed recommendations to President Obama to secure cyberspace and protect our national interests. On June 2 he introduced H.R. 2096, the bipartisan Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2011, which includes some of those recommendations such as improved coordination between federal agencies, improvements to R&D and to the quality of America’s cyber workforce.In addition to Symantec, Congressman McCaul’s leadership has been recognized by numerous associations representing the high tech industry including:April 2011: Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI), the global industry association serving manufacturing supply chains for the microelectronic, display and photovoltaic industriesMarch 2011: Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), which represents 60 companies accounting for 90 percent of US semiconductorproductionAugust 2010: TechNet, the bipartisan network of CEOs that promotes the growth of the innovation economyMay 2010: Information Technology Industry Council (ITIC) presented its Legislator of the Year Award for supporting issuesimportant to the technology community including trade, tax policy, cybersecurity, patent reform, education and basic researchSince entering Congress in 2005, Rep. McCaul has prioritized the needs of the technology industry, understanding that technology is the key to opportunity and job creation in the United States.
06.03.2011	VIDEO: Did Pakistan Give Bin Laden Safe Haven?WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Department of State has not released information to Congress required by law detailing what Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia and ten other countries are doing to eliminate safe havens for terrorists, and what those countries are doing to prevent terrorists from reconstituting their efforts to attack the United States. A Government Accountability Office (GAO) report released today examined the State Department’s August 2010 Country Reports on Terrorism. GAO found that State provided no information about the actions taken by 13 countries identified as having terrorist safe havens to prevent trafficking or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction through their territories. Also, nearly one-third of the assessments lacked information on the actions taken by these countries to cooperate with U.S. antiterrorism efforts.“The idea that a report required by law under the National Defense Authorization Act and Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act would not include information about proliferation about weapons of mass destruction to me is a woefully inadequate report,” said Congressman McCaul, who chaired the hearing for the Homeland Security Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. “The ultimate job of this committee is to protect the American people, and without that information we can’t adequately do our jobs.”“I believe (the information provided) does not provided Congress with sufficient detail andexplanation and evaluation that allows you to measure over time what progress has been made,” said Jacqueline Williams-Bridgers, a Managing Director at GAO.The 9/11 Commission's report to Congress concluded the safe haven of Afghanistan allowed al Qaeda operational space to recruit, train, raise funds and build logistical networks to conduct attacks against the United States.“Only by depriving Al Qaeda of those sanctuaries, destroying the organization’s leadership and disrupting the continued resonance of its message will Al Qaeda be defeated,” testified Professor Bruce Hoffman of Georgetown University, who worked counter-terrorism for the CIA.The revelation that Osama Bin Laden had found safe haven in Pakistan for several years, less than one mile from that country’s military academy, underscores the need to examine Pakistan’s willingness to cooperate with the United States and its efforts to deny safe havens. McCaul said this is especially concerning because Pakistan has been known to proliferate nuclear weapons.“In my judgment it’s hard for anyone to believe they didn’t know he was there. And the question is at what level did the Pakistan government know about this?” said Rep. McCaul. “Either they were complicit in providing material support to the most wanted terrorist by providing him a safe haven or they were totally incompetent to not know he was there.”“If you build a million dollar house in the middle of a security town, someone knocks on your door and says I have a way for you to avoid taxes and that is put me on your payroll,” testified Steve Coll, President of New America Foundation, authority on bin Laden and author of Ghost Wars, noting that Pakistan has one of the lowest rates of tax participation in the world. “The person who knocks on your door is almost always, at least a regional official of the government. In a town like Abbottabad it certainly raises the question of whether ISI (Pakistani Intelligence) wouldn’t have been involved in such a racket.”
06.03.2011	Cyber Security Enhancement Act of 2011Requires federal agencies to implement strategic plans to prevent attacks Press Conference VIDEO: McCaul's addresses Cybersecurity as priority of the Speaker's High Tech Working GroupWASHINGTON, D.C. – Taking an essential first step to secure our federal computer networks from espionage and our critical infrastructure from destruction, Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Dan Lipinski (D-IL) introduced the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2011. Senator Bob Menendez (D-NJ) will introduce companion legislation.The Act will help harden federal networks, spur research and development, build our American cyber workforce and enable the government, universities and private sector to collaborate more easily. A similar bill passed the House of Representatives in 2010, by a vote of 422-5.“All of our critical infrastructure is tied to cyber networks whether it be our utilities, power grids, financial institutions, or air traffic control system. Virtually every sector is vulnerable. I hope as with 9/11 we don’t turn a blind eye and have a denial of service attack before we address this issue,” said Rep. McCaul, who co-chaired the Center for Strategic and InternationalStudies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President, which presented the report Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidencyto President Obama detailing recommendations for securing the country’s government networks and critical infrastructure.“It’s been more than a year since the House passed this bill by an overwhelming margin,” said Rep. Lipinski, the Research and Science Education Subcommittee RankingMember, who introduced the act in the 111th Congress. “Since then, the problem of cybercrime has only increased. In the past few months alone we’ve seen Sony’s PlayStation Network and its users’ data compromised; disturbing breaches at computer security, oil, and financial companies; andreports that hackers are increasingly targeting smartphones. Cybercrime evolves as quickly as technology itself – Congress should recognize that reality and pass the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act as soon as possible to prevent further losses to individuals, businesses, and the economy as a whole.”“As cyber crime becomes more advanced, our cyber cops must stay one step ahead of cybercriminals to prevent infiltration of our nation’s financial infrastructure,” said Senator Menendez. “We cannot allow security breaches to undermine our trust in the U.S. economy. That’s why I’m introducing this bill in the Senate and am working with my colleagues in the House to get this legislation passed so that we can prevent future cybersecurity breaches.”The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act incorporates several key recommendations of the CSIS Commission report.Improves Coordination in government: Gives National Institute of Standards and Technology the authority to set security standards for federal computer systems and develop checklists for agencies to follow. Improves Coordination outside of government: Creates a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development. Improves R&D: Establishes Cybersecurity research and development grant programs. Improves quality of cyber professionals: Creates scholarship programs at NSF that can be repaid with federal service. Requires the President to conduct an assessment of cybersecurity workforce needs across the Federal government.Congressional hearings on cybersecurity have revealed most federal agencies have been hacked into, and that the federal government is under threat of cyber attack on a daily basis. Many attacks are classified as espionage with foreign countries stealing government information. One data dump was equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. Other attacks are believed to have been attempts to shut down federal networks and cause harm.
05.31.2011	"We've known for years that cyber attacks were the future of warfare. Attacks against our federal networks occur on a daily basis. Often they are espionage; stealing sensitive information. Some are aimed at shutting down critical infrastructure. Both are threats to national security that could be used by rogue nations as a means to cause major service disruptions, economic damage or potentially to harm Americans. "Designating cyber attacks as an act of war is an important step to deter these attacks. However, determining what constitutes an act of war is still the fundamental question. Once we do, we still must clearly identify the source. I continue to urge the administration to prioritize cybersecurity as we recommended in our 2008 report. We need better coordination among agencies and, while the United States has great offensive capabilities, our ability to defend against such attacks remains inadequate."McCaul was co-chair of the CSIS report to the 44th President in 2008 which made key cybersecurity recommendations.
05.27.2011	AUSTIN – In an effort to preserve the stories of our nation’s veterans, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) is collaborating with the Library of Congress’ Veterans History Project, a nationwide effort to record first-hand accounts from the men and women who have served our country. “Memorial Day is a time for our nation to pause and pay tribute to the men and women who have given their lives in the service of our country,” said Congressman McCaul. “This year, I want to make sure that veterans in my district have the opportunity to share their story so that these important historical accounts will be preserved for generations to come.”The Veterans History Project is the largest oral history archive of veterans in the United States. The Library of Congress has overseen the project since 2000. Veterans may have served in any era. Interviews will last approximately 30 minutes.Completed interviews will be added to the Veterans History Project's archives. Once the video is processed and housed in a preservation environment, the veteran's service history information will be available in an online database and the interview (or other materials) will be available to Congress and researchers who visit the Library of Congress.For more information on the Veterans History Project, visit https://www.loc.gov/vets/.Interested veterans may contact Monique Wright in the Austin district office at (512) 473-2357 for more information and to schedule an appointment. Interviews will be conducted by Congressman McCaul’s district staff.Initial interviews will be conducted on the following days:Austin – Tuesday, June 7Brenham – Tuesday, June 14Giddings – Wednesday, June 15Tomball – Wednesday, June 15
05.24.2011	"Just a few short days after President Obama tried to force Israel into an unacceptable negotiating position with the Palestinians, I was pleased by the warm reception Congress gave to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu during his address to a rare joint session of Congress. Today’s speech was historic. It demonstrated Israel’s willingness to embrace a partnership with the Palestinian people. Israel is prepared to recognize a Palestinian state. However, Palestinians must also recognize the State of Israel with boundaries that are defensible. I stand with Prime Minister Netanyahu in calling on the Palestinians to break from the terrorist group Hamas which advocates the destruction of Israel and the Jewish people and which condemned the killing of Osama Bin Laden. "Prime Minister Netanyahu eloquently reminded America of the important bond we share with the people of Israel – one based on democracy, human rights, shared interests and security. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Congress to assure Israel’s sovereignty and security. The United States must stand with Israel, now more than ever, to promote peace, security, and stability for all nations in the region."
05.19.2011	"Today’s speech by the President fails to clarify or reveal anything new about his policies in the Middle East. Two and a half years after taking office, the President continues to send our friends and adversaries in the region mixed signals. President Obama says he supports Israel, yet he advocates deep Israeli concessions to the Palestinians. He supports diplomacy with Iran, has been weak on enforcing sanctions, and has failed to support the Iranian people and their calls for freedom. The President has said that Moammar Ghadaffi must leave Libya and intervened with American forces in that country’s civil war, yet he will not force Ghadaffi out of the country. President Obama claims that the U.S. is an ally of Bahrain, yet today he condemned that country’s leadership for its handling of protestors with whom the President sympathizes."The President’s inconsistent approach to situations in the Middle East threatens America’s interests in that region. All the while, regimes like Iran push forward with its deadly nuclear program and extremists plot against us. American leadership at home and abroad must be clear and consistent. Right now, President Obama’s leadership is neither."
05.11.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Top law enforcement agents from Texas and Arizona testified before Congress that crime and violence directly linked to Mexican drug cartels is more prevalent than federal crime statistics or the Obama administration portray. Their testimony was in sharp contrast to that of witnesses from the Departments of Homeland Security and Justice who said they agree with the administration’s assertion that the border has never been more secure.“It’s interesting to see the difference of perspective from those who sit in Washington and those who reside near the border who experience first hand the threat of violence,” said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who chaired the hearing before the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations & Management Subcommittee, at which the federal witnesses refused to testify alongside state officials. The purpose of the hearing was to develop an accurate assessment of border security and determination of the level of cartel-related violence.“We have incursions every day. We have people that are afraid to go out on their property,” testified Chief Victor Rodriguez of the McAllen, TX Police Department.“It’s not more secure than it’s ever been,” Zapata Co. Sheriff Sigifredo Gonzales, Jr. told the committee. “It’s more violent.”The bottom line is that it’s not secure,” testified Colonel Steve McCraw, Director of the Texas Department of Public Safety. “There’s been a proliferation of organized crime in Texas.” He said the increased number of seizures and arrests, as touted by the administration, “only prove that the border is not secure.”The hearing comes one day after President Obama declared his administration has gone “above and beyond” Republican requests to secure the border. His remarks came during a political speech in El Paso in which he urged passage of comprehensive immigration reform.“This is reality and finally it’s getting reported,” Rep. McCaul said of the state law enforcement testimony. “My goal is what can we do to help Mexico win this war and better secure our border. The administration wants to say ‘we checked the box, now let’s move on’.”Central to the issue is the FBI’s Uniform Crime Report, which the federal government uses to measure violence along the border. The UCR does not include kidnappings, extortions, home invasions, smuggling or recruitment of children that are directly related to cartel violence.“There’s no executive branch definition of spillover violence,” responded Amy Pope of the Department of Justice when asked whether cartel-on-cartel violence is counted. “That’s my point,” responded Chairman McCaul. “I’m just trying to get to the truth here. People are going to spin this thing politically both ways, but it seems to me that if you are going to record crime statistics, you ought to be recording the things that they do best. They kill each other, they kidnap and extort, and yet all that is removed from the definition of spillover violence. I don’t think we’re getting an accurate assessment here.”“If you can’t reflect all of those factors, if you can’t reflect the manifestation of violence, that is not just at the border but ends up in our cities, reflected by the… gangs that are working directly for these cartels, then you have a false understanding of what our threat is,” testified McCraw. “You’re kidding yourself. You’re not going to secure the border through definitions.”
05.10.2011	Statement from Congressman McCaul: "The President is not giving the American people a complete picture of security on our border with Mexico. The cartels have significantly increased their presence inside the United States. The data on spillover crime and violence is deceiving and underreported. While we have more resources, the border is more dangerous. Between 70 and 90 percent of Texas' 1,200-mile border with Mexico is still not under operational control. The firsthand accounts of our state and local law enforcement tell the real story of how we are outmanned, overpowered and in danger of losing our own communities to narco-terrorists."Before we start talking about reforming our immigration policy we need to prioritize our national security and gain operational control of the border. Despite the President’s rhetoric that he has gone ‘above and beyond’ to secure the border, this mission is not accomplished. The President can start by extending the deployment of National Guardtroops beyond June 30 and increase their numbers and authority. An assessment of our border security and what resources are needed to address it will be discussed at tomorrow's hearing.”NOTE: Congressman McCaul will chair a hearing Wednesday, May 11, before the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations & Management Subcommittee to give Americans a more realistic security assessment of the US-Mexico border and accurately measure the level of spillover crime. Congressman McCaul is the former Chief of Counter-Terrorism in the US Attorney's Office, Western Dist of Texas. He authored the report "A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border", which exposed the emergence and threat of the Mexican drug cartels, and the potential for terrorists to enter the US through Mexico. HEARING DETAILSDATE: Wednesday, May 11, 2011TIME: 10:00AM ETLOCATION: 311 Cannon House Office Building, Washington, D.C. Link to live stream of hearing WITNESSES: - Col. Steven McCraw, Director, Texas Department of Public Safety - Mr. Tom Horne, Attorney General, State of Arizona - Sheriff Sigifredo “Sigi” Gonzalez, Zapata County, Texas - Chief Victor Rodriguez, Chief of Police, McAllen, TX - Mr. Grayling Williams, Director, Office of Counter Narcotics Enforcement Department of Homeland Security- Ms. Amy Pope, Deputy Chief of Staff and Counselor to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice
05.01.2011	"Finally the killer of nearly 3,000 innocent people on 9/11 has been held accountable. This success would not have been possible without the resolve and courage of our military and the commitment to seeing justice served by both Presidents Bush and Obama. It should send a resounding message to our enemies that the United States will not waiver in the defense of freedom and security."While this is a historic day, Osama bin Laden will no doubt become immortalized in the eyes of al Qaeda and other radical Islamist groups that have continued to plot against us. Because of this I am concerned that the threat to the United States and to our presence overseas may escalate in the near term. Although we have not experienced mass loss of life in nearly 10 years, the United States has endured more than two dozen terror plots over just the past two years inspired by radicals who have followed in bin Laden's footsteps. Americans must remain vigilant. We must not ignore the threat that still exists."# # #
04.29.2011	Washington, D.C. (Friday, April 29, 2011) – ­U.S. Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), Chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Rep. Michael T. McCaul, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations, and Management, have called on Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to support the designation of certain Mexican drug cartels as terrorist organizations and to develop a comprehensive strategy to assist the Mexican government win the war against the cartels.In a letter to Clinton, the Members wrote that “the Mexican drug cartels present a dangerous threat to the national security of the United States.” The Members urged Clinton to “use every capability of the U.S. Government to counter this growing threat to our economy, our security and well being of our citizens. Equally as important, we must make sure Mexico does not become a failed state and yet another haven for terrorists.”The request comes as Secretary Clinton hosts Mexican Foreign Minister Patricia Espinosa at the State Department. Also signing the letter are Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL), Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Rep. Dan Burton (R-IN), Rep. Sue Myrick (R-NC), and Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-CA). Rogers and Duncan are both Members of the Committee on Homeland Security. The signed letter is available at the Committee on Homeland Security website: The text of the letter sent to Secretary Clinton follows:April 27, 2011 The Honorable Hillary Rodham ClintonSecretaryU.S. Department of State2201 C Street, NWWashington, DC 20520 Dear Madam Secretary:The purpose of this letter is threefold; first, to bring to your attention the conclusions reached as a result of our March 31, 2011, Committee on Homeland Security’s Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations, and Management hearing, “The U.S. Homeland Security Role in the Mexican War Against Drug Cartels;” second, to encourage your support of H.R. 1270, designating certain Mexican drug cartels as terrorist organizations; and third, to request that your Department develop a comprehensive strategy with the overall goal of assisting the Mexican Government in their effort to win the war against the drug cartels. I would be happy to work with you in this effort in any way appropriate.Our hearing and countless studies have concluded that since 2006, there have been over 35,000 drug-trafficking-related deaths in Mexico. On March 13, 2010 the killing of three individuals connected to the U.S. Consulate in Juarez, Mexico raised concerns about the Mexican government’s control over the drug cartels. On June 28, 2010 Tamaulipas gubernatorial candidate, Rodolfo Torre Cantu, was killed by thugs associated with a drug cartel--the highest-level political assassination in 15 years. Between January and October 2010, 12 Mexican mayors were killed. These mayors were either executed because they refused to cooperate with the drug cartels or were victims of drug-gang related rivalries. On February 15, 2011, Immigration and Customs Enforcement Special Agent Jaime Zapata was killed and his fellow Special Agent Victor Avila was wounded by “Los Zetas,” believed to be the most violent drug cartel operating in Mexico.According to the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service, “The massacres of young people and migrants, the killing and disappearance of Mexican journalists, the use of torture, and the phenomena of car bombs have received wide media coverage and have led some analysts to question if the violence has been transformed into something new, beyond the typical violence that has characterized the trade. For instance, some observers have raised the concern that the Mexican [Drug Trafficking Organizations] DTOs may be acting more like domestic terrorists.” This increased violence towards the Mexican Government, legal system and media threatens the very foundation of that nation. The threat of Mexico becoming a lawless haven should cause this Administration to seek the tools it needs to ensure the security of our border and provide assistance to our ally in the south.It is clear violent actions taken by the Mexican drug cartels have evolved and are acts of terrorism. These cartels should be classified as terrorist organizations. Federal law defines an “act of terrorism" as an activity that involves a violent act or an act dangerous to human life that is a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State, or that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of the United States or of any State; and appears to be intended--(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; (ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or (iii) to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping. Historically, Mexican drug cartels have been considered criminal organizations, the purpose of which has been financial gain. But with increased brutality targeted toward government officials, law enforcement officers, and civilians, the cartels’ motivated goals have evolved beyond just monetary gain, and now include more violent activities to achieve political, economic and geographic influence. By placing the Mexican drug cartels on the Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) list our law enforcement officers would have additional authorities to limit the cartels’ financial, property, and travel operations. Additionally, such a designation would apply to an entire organization, not only its leaders. It is in the interest of the United States and Mexico to prosecute individuals conducting such brutal acts of terror occurring almost daily across our border. As you know, there is precedent for such a designation under President Clinton in the 1990’s involving the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC).Further, it is essential a comprehensive strategy be developed and implemented to help Mexico win the war against drug cartels. This strategy should include plans to expedite funding for resources to Mexico for intelligence, training, and technical assistance programs. The strategy should pull valuable lessons from Plan Colombia, as there are certainly feasible aspects of Plan Colombia that could be adopted when developing a plan of action. According to the Associated Press, as of March 22, 2010, the United States has spent only $364 million of the promised $1.5 billion in Merida Initiative funding. It should be a priority of the United States to ensure Mexico has the resources it needs to win the war against the Mexican drug cartels.The Mexican drug cartels present a dangerous threat to the national security of the United States. I strongly urge you to use every capability of the U.S. Government to counter this growing threat to our economy, our security and well being of our citizens. Equally as important, we must make sure Mexico does not become a failed state and yet another haven for terrorists. Our Subcommittee will have follow-up hearings to address this growing crisis along our borders and we look forward to your Agencies’ participation. Our staff point of contact is Dr. R. Nicholas Palarino, Subcommittee Staff Director for Oversight at (202) 226-8417. Sincerely, ­­­­­­­ Michael T. McCaul Peter T. KingChairman ChairmanSubcommittee on Oversight,Investigations, and Management Dan Burton Sue MyrickMember of Congress Member of CongressMike Rogers Brian BilbrayMember of Congress Member of CongressJeff Duncan Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Janet Napolitano, Secretary, U.S. Department of Homeland Security The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr., Attorney General, U.S. Department of Justice Mr. Thomas Donilon, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
04.27.2011	Congressmen McCaul and Cuellar receive a briefing from US Customs and Border Protection agents about the Guardian unmanned aerial vehicle and Texas UAV operations based in Corpus Christi. (Congressional photo)CORPUS CHRISTI, TX – Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX), Henry Cuellar (D-Laredo) and Blake Farenthold (R-Corpus Christi), members of the US House Homeland Security Committee, called on the Obama administration to increase the number of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) stationed in Texas to patrol the state's border with Mexico. Presently, of the four UAVs located on the southern border, three are stationed in Arizona while one, which is classified as a maritime unit, is based in Texas. The Texas UAV, the Guardian, is assigned to the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station to uniquely perform surveillance of both the border region and Gulf of Mexico. Texas, however, shares 1,254 miles of border with Mexico compared with Arizona’s 370-mile boundary."Texas needs more resources and we need them in close proximity to the border, notjust along the coast. The Guardian is a tremendous asset. But not having additional UAVs based along the border routinely hinders law enforcement operations that rely on this critical surveillance," said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee. Rep. McCaul’s remarks came during today’s visit to assess U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s UAV operations in Corpus Christi. The visit was to include a landing of a UAV from an overnight border mission. However, the flight was scrubbed due to high winds at the Naval Air Station, demonstrating the need for additional aircraft in closer proximity to our land border operations. An estimated 20 percent of missions from the Naval Air Station have been canceled due to weather.“UAVs provide critical intelligence that allows law enforcement to detect and dismantle unlawful activity along the Southwest border, from the smuggling of drugs and humans to arms trafficking. Today’s UAV landing and briefing in Corpus Christi affirmed that additional operations for non-maritime UAVs in Texas will only increase the capability of law enforcement to interdict crime, prosecute wrongdoers, and keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Cuellar.“UAVs provide a vital force multiplier effect in securing our borders as Mexican drug cartels grow bolder by the day in their operations on both sides of the border. Federal, state, and local law enforcement need the cost effective and timely intelligence that Unmanned Aerial Vehicles can provide,” said Congressman Farenthold.Two UAV systems are on order as part of the 2010 Border Supplemental Budget to be delivered by the end of 2011. While the Department of Homeland Security has not determined where these systems will be assigned, Congressmen McCaul, Cuellar and Farenthold, in a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, urge DHS to stationboth in Texas along its border with Mexico.In addition to the vehicles, Congressmen McCaul, Cuellar and Farenthold urge DHS to increase the number of flight crews, training and ground operations needed to support the mounting requests for aerial surveillance missions. Both McCaul and Cuellar have lead bipartisan efforts in Congress to increase the use of technology to secure the US-Mexico border.The UAV stationed at Corpus Christi, a Guardian Maritime Variant delivered Feb 2010, carries unique technology used for maritime haze filtration. In addition it carries the same surveillance technology as used over land in a Predator-B.
04.13.2011	"The President gave another political speech today but still has not come to the table with a plan or a genuine desire to negotiate. He continues to offer no real specifics expect the same tax and spend approach that has driven our nation into the fiscal hole in which we currently find ourselves. House Republicans are serious about reducing our national debt and deficits which is why on Friday we will vote on a proposal to cut $6.2 trillion in spending over the next decade, preserve and strengthen entitlement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and reduce the overall tax burden on American families and businesses so that we can begin to create more jobs and strengthen our economic recovery. I am hopeful the President will stop playing politics and work with Republicans to get serious about reversing our current course.”
04.12.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology; Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics, criticized the Obama administration's decision to snub Houston as home to one of the retired Space Shuttles orbiters. "It is truly shameful that the Obama administration has snubbed a city that has supported the Space Shuttle Program like no other. Houston is home to a generation of astronauts, scientists and engineers at the Johnson Space Center who have guided every shuttle mission and who have personally grieved the loss of friends and family who gave their lives in the name of space exploration. On this historic day their unmatched contributions are ignored in favor of two states, New York and California, whose investment in America's space program pales in comparison."
04.09.2011	"Both the House and Senate approved extending funding for the next seven days to avoid a government shutdown. This extension, which I voted for, was predicated on an agreement on a budget for the rest of the fiscal year that will cut tens of billions of dollars in spending. This is a starting point. With a budget agreement in place through September, we can now begin focusing on the bigger picture of cutting trillions of dollars in debt over the next ten years which is essential to strengthen our economy, create jobs and bring down the record debt that will jeopardize our national security."
03.31.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Citing the United States’ present approach as “failing”, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) called on multiple cabinet level agencies to develop a new, cohesive strategy to help the Mexican government combat the drug cartels that have taken over much of Mexico and that pose an increasing threat to both nations.“The fundamental question of this hearing is ‘what is our strategy down there?’”, said Rep. McCaul at the Homeland Security Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee hearing, which he chaired. “It is time for the United States to take decisive action.”“We need to act now because it is a crisis. We cannot afford for Mexico to become a failed state overtaken by these drug cartels where terrorists could operate out of.”In the latest effort, the 2008 Merida Initiative, Congress approved $1.3 billion in military resources for the Mexican government. To date, however, the State Department has allocated only one-quarter of the funding and the violence has escalated.Luis Alvarez, Assistant Director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, described the level of cooperation with the Mexican government as “excellent”. However, he testified that the increased threat to US law enforcement, highlighted by the recent murder of ICE Special Agent Jaime Zapata, has put a chilling effect on his agency’s efforts.“One of the problems that we face now is trying to recruit ICE agents to actually go down to Mexico and work on our behalf. It’s getting more and more difficult as a result of the increased violence,” Alvarez said.As part of a new strategy, Congressman McCaul has introduced legislation to designate Mexican drug cartels as Foreign Terror Organizations. This designation would allow the United States to limit cartels’ financial, property and travel interests, and to impose harsher punishment on anyone who provides material support tocartels. The cartels have killed more than 35,000 people in Mexico in five years employing gruesome tactics and in the past year have increased the number of assassinations and murders of high profile Mexican officials in efforts to intimidate and control. “It’s going beyond just a criminal enterprise,” Rep. McCaul said. “They actively affect the political, judicial and law enforcement systems in Mexico to gain political and economic influence.”“We’ve got to get out of this mindset where we are only dealing with the phased fanatic that is a suicide bomber screaming “Allahu Akbar!” agreed Jon Adler, president of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association. “We need to call it for what it is. And we need to respond accordingly. I completely support you on that,” Adler testified.Congressman McCaul has further proposed examining successful tactics used in Plan Colombia, a joint military and intelligence operation,which helped undermine that country’s drug cartels and restore its national and economic security. “We could work jointly in a military fashion as partners. We have the capability to wipe out these drug cartels if we have the leadership to do it,” Rep. McCaul said.Today’s was the first of a two-part hearing. Congressman McCaul plans a second hearing in April to focus on efforts on the US side of the border.
03.31.2011	Chairman McCaul Opening RemarksAs Prepared for DeliveryOIM Hearing, March 31, 2011NOTE: McCaul may deviate from prepared text Good morning. Welcome to this Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee hearing titled “The US Homeland Security Role in the Mexican War Against Drug Cartels”.Over the past year the increase in violence by the Mexican Drug Cartels has expanded to include more brutal forms of violence and deaths of civilians and politicalleaders. · March 13, 2010– cartel members killed three individuals (two of them US citizens) connected to the US consulate in Juarez, Mexico.· June 28, 2010– Tamaulipas gubernatorial candidate was killed by a drug cartel.· January through October 2010– 12 sitting mayors were killed.· February 15, 2011– Immigration and Customs Enforcement Special Agent Jaime Zapata was killed and his fellow Special Agent Victor Avila was wounded by the Los Zetas.· March 2011– A Law Enforcement Bulletin warned that cartels were overheard plotting to kill ICE agents andTexas Rangers guarding the border using AK-47s by shooting at them from across the border.These are acts of terrorism as defined by federal law.The shooting of Special Agents Zapata and Avila is a game-changer which alters the landscape of the United States’ involvement in Mexico’s war against the drug cartels. For the first time in 25 years, the cartels are targeting American law enforcement. Agent Avila described this ambush to me as “pure evil”. Even at the Mexican hospital he feared that they would come back and finish the job. The agents were forced off a highway in Central Mexico in their vehicle bearing diplomatic license plates. Both agents pleaded for their lives in Spanish identifying themselves as United States federal agents. Members of the Los Zetas cartel responded by firing more than 80 rounds from automatic weapons, killing Special Agent Zapata and wounding Special Agent Avila.I have been in contact with the Department of Justice. I personally met with Agent Avila and he expressed his willingness to testify today. However, given that he is a material witness in an ongoing criminal investigation and for his security, better judgment was to not call him as a witness. His story still needs to be told.Given this intensified violence, more than 35,000 killings in the past five years and increased spillover crime into the United States, it is time for the United States to take decisive steps to end this war just south of our border. The solution, however, goes well beyond securing our borders. President Felipe Calderon should be praised for his efforts to eradicate the cartels. When Congressman Henry Cuellar and I visited him in Mexico City in 2008, he told us security was his top priority. He had boldly declared war against the narcoterrorists that were infiltrating his military and local police forces.In 2008 Congress passed the Merida Initiative, directing $1.3 billion in resources to help the Mexican government fight the cartels. To date only one quarter of that amount has been directed and the violence in Mexico is only increasing.The violence is no longer limited to the drug trade. The cartels are disrupting basic services and expanding their criminal enterprises. Mexico is in danger of becoming a failed state controlled by criminals. If this happens, Mexico could become a safe haven for terrorists who we know are attempting to enter the United States through our porous border. In the interest of our national security, trade with our third largest partner, and our rich cultural ties, we cannotafford for this to happen.Our hearing today will:· Review the accomplishments of the Mexican Government’s war against the drug cartels;· Examine the US role in the war;· Determine the implications for US Homeland Security; and· Determine what further actions the United States needs to take assisting Mexico win their war.We should explore a joint military and intelligence operation with Mexico, similar to the 1999 Plan Colombia which has succeeded in undermining that country’s cocaine trade, disrupting its cartels and restoring its economic and national security.In addition, I have introduced legislation requiring the State Department to classify drug cartels as Foreign Terror Organizations as a means to limit the groups’ financial, property, and travel interests.This designation could:· Bring separate charges against anyone providing “material support or resources” to FTOs. This includes but is not limited to money, identification, lodging, training, weapons and transportation.· Provide an additional penalty of up to 15 years in prison and possible fine for providing material support or resources. A life sentence may be imposed if their actions resulted in death. This penalty is levied in addition to penalties for any associated crime.· Authorize the deportation of any foreign member of an FTO from the United States even if they are in this country legally.· Require banks to freeze any funds tied to FTOsCartels kidnap, kill, and mutilate innocent civilians, elected officials and law enforcement, using gruesome tactics to intimidate government officials and citizens to abide by their rules. Torture, beheadings, dismembering and mutilation are common.While not driven by religious ideology, Mexican drug cartels operate in the same manner as al Qaeda, the Taliban or Hezbollah each sharing a desire, and using similar tactics to gain political and economic influence. These are acts of terrorism.Black’s Law defines TERRORISM as: activity that… appears to be intended--(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; (ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion, or (iii) to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping.· According to the Congressional Research Service,“The massacres of young people and migrants, the killing and disappearance of Mexican journalists, the use of torture, and the phenomena of car bombs have received wide media coverage and have led some analysts to question if the violence has been transformed into something new, beyond the typical violence that has characterized the trade. For instance, some observers have raised the concern that the Mexican DTOs may be acting more like domestic terrorists.”We must also secure our borders. We must intensify southbound inspections to seize weapons and cash that arm and fund drug trafficking organizations. The United States funnels an estimated $25-30 billion a year into Mexico which funds the cartel. We should seize this money then use it against the cartels by paying for US border security operations. I have visited our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. But the last time I visited the El Paso Intelligence Center and requested to go across the border to Juarez, the State Department told me they could not guarantee my safety.It is time for the United States to show a serious commitment to this war on our doorstep.Before I yield my time, I would like for us all to remember Special Agent Jaime Zapata. Our sympathies go out to his family and friends. Additionally, I want torecognize the heroic efforts of Special Agent Victor Avila, who was wounded during the attack. On behalf of this Committee, thank you to all of our brave men and women who put themselves in harms way for our country. Also, I’d like to thank our witnesses for being here today. I look forward to hearing their testimony.
03.30.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) has introduced legislation seeking to place six Mexican Drug Cartels – theArellano Feliz Organization, Los Zetas, theBeltran Leyva Organization, La Familia Michoacana, Sinaloa Cartel and Gulf Cartel– on the Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) list. This designation would allow the United States to limit cartels’ financial, property and travel interests, and to impose harsher punishment on anyone who provides materialsupport to cartels. “The cartels use violence to gain political and economic influence. They have taken control of much of northern Mexico and spillover crime has resulted in the abandonment of property and loss of security on the US side of the border,” said Congressman McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. “Mexican drug cartels are terrorist organizations and this designation will provide the necessary tools to effectively advance the national security interests of both Mexico and the United States.”Rep. McCaul, a former federal prosecutor, introduced the legislation on the eve of his hearing examining the United States’ Role in the Mexican War Against the Drug Cartels. Cartel Violence and TacticsSince 2006 the cartels have killed more than 35,000 people in Mexico. Over the past year the cartels have killed three individuals (two US citizens) connected to the US consulate in Juarez, Mexico, a gubernatorial candidate in the state of Tamaulipas, 12 sitting mayors and one US Immigration and Customs Enforcement Special Agent. While not driven by religious ideology, Mexican drug cartels operate in the same manner as al Qaeda, the Taliban or Hezbollah, each sharing a desire and using similar tactics to gain political and economic influence. They actively affect political, judicial and law enforcement in Mexico.They employ the same tactics as other organizations designated as FTOs – kidnappings, political assassinations, attacks on civilian and military targets, taking over cities and even putting up checkpoints in order to control territory and institutions. Torture, beheadings, dismemberment and mutilation are common tactics that they use to intimidatecivilians and government officials. Effects of FTO Designation · Separate charges can be brought against anyone providing “material support or resources” to FTOs. This includes but is not limited to money, identification, lodging, training, weapons and transportation. · The penalty for providing material support or resources is up to 15 years in prison and possible fine. A life sentence may be imposed if their actions resulted in death. This penalty is levied in addition to penalties for any associated crime. · Any foreign member of an FTO can be deported from the United States even if they are in this country legally. · Banks must freeze any funds tied to FTOs. Terrorism Defined"Act of terrorism" means an activity that involves a violent act or an act dangerous to human life that is a violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State, or that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction of the United States or of any State; and appears to be intended--(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population; (ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion, or (iii) to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping. 18 U.S.C.A 3077. [Black’s Law Dictionary, Sixth Edition, p. 1473] Precedent· 1995 – President Clinton, by executive order, imposed economic sanctions on all narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia. · Al Qaeda and other FTOs are heavily involved in the opium/heroin trade in Afghanistan
03.29.2011	"It is unfortunate that two weeks ago this administration missed an opportunity to remove Gadhafi from power without the need for extended and costly US military engagement in Libya. More options for the swift removal of Gadhafi from power should have been considered earlier to neutralize the atrocities leveraged against his own people.While NATO has taken command of the operation and our allies have taken a greater role in assisting the Libyan people, the President should not dismiss the significant cost incurred by the American people to launch this operation or downplay the continued and tremendous expense that Americans will bear to provide the robust support required to maintain operations for NATO and our international partners for an undefined duration.The President must provide Congress and the American people greater details about our military commitment to Libya and beyond: how many of our men and women in uniform will be dedicated to this operation, how much will it cost, how will we pay for it, and what event or events, such as the removal of Gadhafi from power, will mark the end of our military involvement."
03.17.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Semiconductor Industry Association, which represents 60 companies accounting for 90 percent of semiconductor production in the United States, awarded Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Austin) with the 2011 SIA Congressional Leadership Award.Rep. McCaul joined Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Senator Oren Hatch (R-UT) receiving the industry’s distinct recognition.“Companies in my district such as Samsung, IBM and Applied Materials make the technology that is at the forefront of solving many of the challenges we face today, whether it’s medicine, energy, education or border security,” said Congressman McCaul, who founded and co-chairs the High Tech Caucus in the U.S. House. “The success of our technology companies drives job growth and the success of our economy.”“It is our privilege to honor our Congressional leaders for their foresight and vision,” said Brian Toohey, president, Semiconductor Industry Association. “These awards underscore our belief that there isn’t just one leader in Congress, one company, or even one innovator that takes ownership for the success of this industry, but rather it is the collective efforts of anentire community that have come to be inspired by our vision and have taken up our call to action.”The 2011 SIA Congressional Leadership Award is awarded to members of Congress that support and promote policies that maintain U.S. leadership insemiconductor design and manufacturing. Congressman McCaul has become a top advocate for the technology industry and has lead on important issues including reauthorization of the America COMPETES Act, high-skilled immigration reform, STEM education funding and R&D Tax Credit reform. About the SIAThe Semiconductor Industry Association, SIA, is the voice of the U.S. semiconductor industry,America's number-one export industry over the last five years and a bell wether measurement of the US economy. Semiconductor innovations form the foundation for America's $1.1 trillion dollar technology industry affecting a U.S. workforce of nearly 6 million. Founded in 1977 by five microelectronics pioneers, SIA unites over 60 companies that account for 90 percent of the semiconductor production of this country. Through this coalitionSIA seeks to strengthen US leadership of semiconductor design and manufacturing by working with Congress, the Administration and other key industry groups. The SIA works to encourage policies and regulations that fuel innovation, propel business and drive international competition in order to maintain a thriving semiconductor industry in the United States. Learn more at www.sia-online.org.
03.15.2011	10-15 Year Timeline UnacceptableVIDEO at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0FENipv1tMU WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Department of Homeland Security confirmed it is incorporating Department of Defense technology along the Southwest border with Mexico. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) suggested the consideration of such technology last spring after he and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) were given a hands-on demonstration near Laredo. Assistant Commissioner Mark Borkowski in the Customs and Border Protection Office of Technology, told Congressman McCaul the long range infrared sensor technology called the "Agents Portable Surveilance Systems" (APSS), will first be put to use in Arizona, but not yet in Texas."We are in fact in this plan intending to procure those as part of the Arizona deployment," Borkowski testified during today's Border and Maritime Subcommittee hearing. "We are in fact procuring them through an Army vehicle. So yes we did take advantage of what we learned from (the April 2010 demonstration). We did incorporate it into the operational assessment, the border patrol did, and we do intend to procure those systems."Congressman McCaul has long supported the use of DOD technology on the US-Mexico border. The technology has already been proven to work in war zones on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Further, it is more readily available than past proposals and will save taxpayers money since there would be no duplicative research and development costs.However, under DHS's current plan the technology would not be completely implemented along the Southwest border until 2021-2026."That's a long time. You're talking 10-15 years," said Rep. McCaul. "It took us a decade to put a man on the moon and yet we're talking about camera surveillance, that kind of technology that quite honestly the Department of Defense has already manufactured through R&D at the taxpayer expense. I don't understand why this takes so long and you have a crisis going on down there. Everyone knows it. Why can't we ramp up this process?" Borkowski described the technology as mobile. He testified DHS will have to prioritize initial locations and respond elsewhere on a needs basis. "If there's a movement of traffic somewhere else that requires us to deploy somewhere else we can shift our plan to adapt to that," he said.Rep. McCaul challenged Borkowski to move the project more expeditiously. "If I have to go home and tell my constituents it's not going to be until 2026 that this border is secure, they're just not gonna accept that message and I think they're right in not accepting that."
03.13.2011	"I am saddened by the tragic loss of life caused by the catastrophic earthquakes and tsunamis in Japan and the North Pacific. Japan is a steadfast ally to the United States and we stand by the Japanese people in this time of great need. My prayers go out to those who have lost loved ones as a result of this disaster and the countless thousands who will soon begin the difficult task of rebuilding."
03.11.2011	"It is unfortunate that it has taken 16 months and a Congressional investigation for the Army to take action and police itself in the wake of this preventable tragedy. Major Hasan was promoted repeatedly, rather than confronted, in the name of political correctness despite obvious signs of radicalization. These included conversations with radical cleric Anwar al Awlaki, arguably the greatest threat to the United States today." "Our men and women in uniform must be trained to better address radicalization within their ranks. With the great trust our nation places in them, we must expect the moral courage of our military professionals to report a potential wrongdoing or identify a soldier at risk. To ignore the threat of radical Islamic extremism in the name of political correctness presents a serious threat to the American people." Rep. McCaul is Chairman of the Homeland Security Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee. He is former Chief of Counter-Terrorism in the U.S. Attorney's Office, Western District of Texas.
03.10.2011	Hearing Video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWzi5Z4ObYU WASHINGTON, D.C. - The father of a 23 year old Muslim-American who was radicalized by a mosque before he shot and killed an American soldier at an Army recruiting center in Arkansas, testified today that the mosque knew it was responsible for his son's drastic change in character. “Sure they know, but they're waiting around to do it again to someone else’s child," Melvin Bledsoe told Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) during today's House Homeland Security hearing on Radicalization. "That is why I am here today hoping that American people, you're listening. I hope you hear me. I hope you're learning something from that. I don’t think that any other child or any other parent in America should have to go through what I’m facing today.” Carlos Bledsoe, of Memphis, TN, converted to Islam, changed his name to Abdulhakim Mujahid Muhammad, and was sent to Yemen where he was radicalized prior to the 2009 shooting in Little Rock. It is one of 27 terror plots against the United States in the past two years, each involving extreme radicalization of the Muslim faith. "The cases of our witnesses, along with Major Hasan, the Fort Hood shooter, and many others show that the threat to America lies within our own country," said Congressman McCaul during the hearing which has been characterized as an attack on American-Muslims. "Let me be clear, it is not this committee that is doing that but Al Qaeda that is targeting and attacking our Muslim youth, as evidenced by the testimony of Mr. Bledsoe and Mr. Bihi." Abdirizak Bihi's nephew was lured to Somalia to join the Islamic extremist group Al Shabaab, where he was killed. At issue during today's hearing is the strength of the relationship between the Muslim-American community and law enforcement in their attempt to thwart radicalization and subsequent violence. While some cooperation exists, Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor and former Chief of Counter-terrorism at the US Attorney's Office in Texas, believes barriers to coordinated outreach need to be addressed. "I am very concerned that there are organizations out there speaking for the Muslim-American community telling them not to coordinate with the FBI and law enforcement as evidenced by the poster that we saw by the Council on American Islamic Relations," Rep. McCaul said. The poster, produced by CAIR, urges Muslim-Americans to "build a wall of resistance" and "don't talk to the FBI". (Click Here To View Poster Produced By CAIR) TRANSCRIPT OF McCAUL AND WITNESS Q&A McCaul: Before I ask the questions of the witnesses I want to read from Senator Lieberman’s letter to John Brennan, the assistant to the President for Homeland Security. What he said, “The failure to identify our enemy for what it is, violent Islamic extremism is offensive and contradicts thousands of years of accepted military and intelligence doctrine to know your enemy.” We have to know our enemy and it is radical Islam in my judgment.I would like to ask Mr. Bledsoe and Mr. Behi, your children were kidnapped by these two Mosques, they were held hostage, they were sent overseas to both Yemen and to Somalia and their lives were destroyed. Have these two Mosque done anything to repair the relationship? Have they ever told you their sorry, and have they ever told you that they will change their practices?”Bledsoe: “I’ll speak first. No I have not heard from a Mosque at all about whether or not they are sorry. Going back to the question from the lady from Texas. We’re not talking about all Muslims. We’re talking about Islamic radicalization and that I wanted to make clear because there is a difference. I have Muslim in my family I mentioned earlier I’m sitting beside two, in the middle, I am sitting in the middle between two. So we’re not talking about all Muslims we’re talking about the ones who are hiding behind the moderate Muslim, and they're the one who is a threat to America, a threat to our babies, a threat to our children and they are in the danger.”McCaul: “Did the Mosque know that they were responsible for the radicalization of your son?”Bledsoe: “Sure they know, but they're waiting around to do it again to someone else’s child. That is why I am here today hoping that American people you're listening. I hope you hear me. I hope your learning something from that, I don’t think that any other child or any other parent in America should have to go through what I’m facing today.”McCaul: “ I agree with that. Mr. Behi, has the Mosque that radicalized your nephew ever apologized or taken responsibility?”Behi: “Sir, No. Never have they apologized. They as matter of fact attacked us and call us names and tools of infidels. It seems that still nobody from the leadership or congress in the state of Minnesota the Islamic organizations, none of them have ever met 20 or more Somali-American families who were refugees get their kids from civil war, lucky enough to raise their kids in a college level, those families were hurt. Not a congressman, not CAIR, not any other organization, not the Mosque people none of them ever visited them or even mentioned them. As a matter of fact they call us liars.”McCaul: “And infidels. One last question…”King: “Time of the gentleman has expired.”McCaul: “Ok. I will follow up with a written question. Thank you.”
03.09.2011	VIDEO OF McCaul's press conference remarks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vZqxG3YzxPUWASHINGTON, D.C. – The bipartisan Congressional High Tech Caucus announced its full support of efforts to increase the Research & Development Tax Credit and make it permanent.Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA), who co-chair the High Tech Caucus, are original co-sponsors of the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011, introduced today by Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX), author of the legislation, and John Larson (D-CT).“Many of our nation’s leading businesses rely on these incentives to create some of the most innovative products in the world, create jobs, and drive long-term economicgrowth,” said Congressman McCaul, who founded the High Tech Caucus. “This will have a direct, positive economic impact on large and small technology businesses alike in our high tech centers such as Austin and Silicon Valley.”“As Co-Chair of the High-Tech Caucus, I believe our nation’s innovators need certainty when it comes to future investments in research and development,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 will help spur innovation, investment and job creation in all sectors of our economy. This bill is particularly important to U.S. clean energy manufacturers and will provide a sense of clarity to attract new investment and increase their manufacturing base. I look forward to joining my colleagues in moving this legislation this year.” The R&D tax credit has proven to be one of the most effect tools to encourage investment and employment in the United States especially in the area of high technology. High Tech Caucus BackgroundCreated at the beginning of the 110th Congress, the Congressional High Tech Caucus is a bipartisan forum in which Members of Congress address the concerns vital tothis important industry. The Caucus solicits briefings from industry leaders and experts as well as educators and government officials working on related issues.The Caucus gives industry leaders, university and private researchers and interested groups the ability to share their ideas, by promoting dialogue, to improve our high tech sector, expand job growth and enhance American competitiveness and innovation in the 21st Century global economy.The Congressional High Tech Caucus is focused on working in a bipartisan fashion in order to explore policy solutions on the innovation economy including the following issues, among others:*Job creation*R&D tax extension*Broadband deployment/adoption*Cyber security*Internet privacy*Intellectual property protection/copyright*Advancement of clean energy and smart grid technologies*Cloud computing*Competitive tax reform/repatriation
03.08.2011	Click Here For Text of BillWASHINGTON, D.C. – In his continuing efforts to reform Washington, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) introduced legislation today (attached) that would prohibit the use of taxpayer dollars to fund projects named for sitting members of Congress. “The question is not whether these projects are worthy of taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. McCaul. “It’s a problem of perception that these projects receive special treatment because of the names they bear. At a minimum, when the American people see this it feeds the belief that members of Congress are arrogant and out of touch with the people we represent. At worst these projects serve as a fundraising tool and campaign ad for the incumbent at taxpayer expense.”Congressman McCaul’s effort to permanently ban the practice has influenced spending in Washington for the past three years, causing consternation for members on both sides of the political aisle. In 2008 Rep. McCaul succeeded in banning the practice for all spending in the first quarter of FY’09 and for Veterans and Military Construction spending for all of FY’09. In 2009, then-chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, Rep. David Obey (D-WI), stood with Rep. McCaul and banned the funding of earmarks named for members in that year’s budget bill. Rep. Obey was criticized by members of his own party and was the subject of a heated confrontation on the House floor by a senior Democrat who, according to press reports, demanded funding for a projected which bared her name.“This bill is a challenge to every member of Congress – Republican, Democrat or Independent – to end this practice and help restore dignity to this body and confidence among the American people,” Rep. McCaul said.The Monument to Me spending practice is often tied to projects funded through earmarks. Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor in the Department of Justice Pubic Integrity Section, was among the first members to stop requesting earmarks in early 2008 because the system is too susceptible to waste, fraud and abuse. McCaul will not request earmarks until the system becomes more transparent and each earmark is allowed an up or down vote.In its January 25, 2011 edition, The Wall Street Journal called Rep. McCaul’s effort a “long overdue reform”.Related LinksThe Wall Street Journal: Enough With the ‘Monuments to Me’LA Times: Maxine Waters Job-Training Center Caught in Funding BanHouston Chronicle: Time for plain talk on earmarks; No ‘bridges to nowhere for me’Austin American-Statesman: Get ‘monuments to me’ ban written in stone
03.03.2011	Napolitano to McCaul: US will Seek Extradition of ICE Ambush SuspectsVIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t4gcyjUFhrk WASHINGTON, D.C. - Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano told Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) that the Obama administration does intend to extradite to the United States Zeta Cartel members suspected of carrying out the deadly attack against two US ICE agents in Mexico Feb. 15. The exchange took place during this morning's House Homeland Security Committee hearing.Napolitano: "My understanding is that it will be prosecuted in the United States, but again those are decisions that are yet to come." McCaul: "Is it the administration’s position that we will be seeking extradition to the United States?”Napolitano: "Yes."Congressman McCaul, who chairs the Homeland Security Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, also pressed Secretary Napolitano on the administration's position of whether the ambush that killed Agent Jaime Zapata and wounded Agent Victor Avila was a case of mistaken identity. The suspects have claimed they mistook the agents for rival cartel members, which is contrary to the eyewitness account of Agent Avila.“The briefings I’ve received were that the two agents said 'we are American diplomats' and [that their vehicle possessed] the U.S. diplomatic tag. What is the position of this administration with respect to the claim that this was mistaken identity?” Rep. McCaul asked. "I think it would be inappropriate for me to comment on the actual evidence that will come in. This obviously is a matter that is being prosecuted," Secretary Napolitano replied. “I’ll take the eyewitness account of our agent over the Zetas who have been apprehended any day and I hope the administration will back that eyewitness account," Rep. McCaul said. Congressman McCaul is seeking to reform various aspects of US-Mexico relations in response to the ICE ambush, including the inability of US federal agents to carry weapons while serving in Mexico. "I was surprised to find out that there’s a 1990 agreement that prohibits our officers from carrying weapons down in Mexico," Rep. McCaul told the Secretary. "Things have dramatically changed since 1990. There is a war going on as you know and it seems to me our agents should be armed if we are going to put them down there in harm's way. Would you support a revision of that agreement?”Secretary Napolitano agreed to discuss the issue but to do so in a classified setting.Congressman McCaul plans a hearing this month to examine the United States' role in Mexico's war against the drug cartels. Rep. McCaul authored the 2006 report A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border, which exposed the emerging threat of the Mexican drug cartels and the exploitations of our unsecured border with Mexico.
02.28.2011	"Unlike the majority of terror suspects who have been apprehended in the United States, we cannot rule out the possibility that Khalid Ali-M Aldawsari may have had direct ties to al Qaeda or other international terrorist networks. Aldawsari was radicalized in the Middle East before coming to the United States. His intent to use baby dolls to conceal chemical explosives is a rare, little-known method used by Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and Ramzi Yousef in the 1995 Bojinka plot in which they planned to blow up 12 jumbo jets over the Pacific Ocean. While it is unclear whether Aldawsari had operational direction from a terrorist network, it is likely that he was in regular contact with someone either here or abroad who inspired or motivated his actions."
02.16.2011	"This was an intentional ambush against two United States federal agents, which I view as an attack against the United States. Special Agent Jaime Zapata, who was killed, and a fellow agent who survived, were pursued by numerous cartel members and run off the road while driving a US government vehicle with diplomat license plates. When the agents identified themselves as American diplomats, the cartel members responded by opening fire on the officers. US law enforcement has operated in Mexico for more than two decades without threat of violence from drug cartels. This tragic event is a game changer. The United States will not tolerate acts of violence against its citizens or law enforcement and I believe we must respond forcefully. This should be a long overdue wakeup call for the Obama administration that there is a war on our nation's doorstep."Congressman McCaul authored the report A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border, which exposed the emergence and threat of Mexican drug cartels.
02.11.2011	“President Mubarak’s resignation is a significant milestone in the Egyptian people’s calls to reform their government. It is important that the Egyptian people work toward an orderly and peaceful transition to a more democratic state and that the international community continue to provide the necessary support for free and fair elections. However, we must also be mindful of extremist elements inside Egypt seeking to manipulate the current situation which might threaten a new, more democratic state. A stable Egypt is essential to the stability of the region and the national security of the United States."
02.09.2011	NCTC Downplays Hasan Connection to al Qaeda as "Inspiration", not "Direction", when questioned by McCaulSays agents will be more aggressive toward radicalizationMcCaul prepares to question Secretary Napolitano and Director Leiter during today's Homeland Security hearing on Understanding the Homeland Threat Landscape. (McCaul staff photo)Transcript below of exchanges between Congressman McCaul and Michael Leiter, Director of the National Counter-Terrorism Center (NCTC) on the Fort Hood shootings and between McCaul and Secretary Napolitano on operational security of the US-MX border. Video of exchange with both Leiter and Napolitano: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZIyHHpwK2F0. Unofficial Hearing Transcript: MCCAUL: Some said that was not an act of terrorism; I said it was. I think it is the deadliest attack we’ve had since 9/11. Since that time the Senate has created a report called “A Ticking Time Bomb.” In that report it talks about how the Joint Terrorism Task Force in San Diego had information about Major Hasan’s contacts, with what you described, Director, as the most dangerous threat to the United States security, and that’s Al-Awlaki. Unfortunately that information was not shared with the commander, General Cone, at Fort Hood, who I talked to and I said “wouldn’t you have liked to have known that?” When the attack took place, the FBI agent was quoted as saying “You know who that is. That’s our boy.” Can you tell this Committee and the American People what happened that day and what Major Hasan’s connections are to the terrorist community?LEITER: Congressman, to begin I would just say at NCTC within about 48 hours of that attack we designated that a terrorist attack in what we called a worldwide incident tracking system, so from our perspective as soon as we had the initial indication of the motivation we counted it as a terrorist attack, it can always change back, but in this case it hasn’t. With respect to his connection to Anwar al-Awlaki and AQAP, and I want to be very careful here because obviously this is still a case for prosecution, but we’ve said publicly it looks to us like inspiration rather than direction. Finally, your question about what happened; I want to be careful to not speak for Director Mueller or the Department of Defense. I think they said quite clearly at the time that information was not shared effectively between the FBI and the Department of Defense and they have taken remedial action to address some of that. I know for NCTC’s part, since then we have worked with the FBI to produce improved training materials and training for our field officers so there really is no question for the next special agent when he is investigating the case and he will recognize the tell tale signs of radicalization and moving towards mobilization and not just convey that to the Department of Defense, but probably be more aggressive in following that up.MCCAUL: I think for the American people it’s hard to understand- and we can talk about infiltration of the military, the threat is there, but it’s hard for the average citizen to understand how the FBI could have this kind of information that you have a Major at the biggest installation in the United States in contact with one of the biggest threats to the security of the United States and yet that information is not shared at all. I think that’s a major breakdown and I know it’s not totally within your prevue and jurisdiction, but I sure hope we can fix that problem. MCCAUL: Madam Secretary, you were quoted in The Hill newspaper as saying that with respect to the border “it’s inaccurate to state that the border is out of control.” We had a briefing with Border Patrol that about 44% of the border is under operational control. As you well know the killings and violence going on- coming from Arizona, me coming from Texas- I would say my constituents do view it as an out of control state. (Apprehension of) special interest aliens have increased by 37%, those are persons coming from countries that have potentially terrorist influences. There was recently a potential terrorist found in the trunk of a car; paid the Mexican cartel $5,000 to sneak across the border. Could you clarify your statement that it is not out of control down there? NAPOLITANO: Absolutely. First, and I will give you the full talk that I gave at UTEP, but the border, thanks in part to the bipartisan efforts of the Congress, has more manpower, technology, and infrastructure than ever before. The numbers in terms of seizures that need to go up are going up and the numbers in terms of illegal immigration are going way down. The communities that are along the border, San Diego, Nogales, El Paso and so forth, in terms of violent crime statistics, are among the safest in the United States and so what I was saying from which I’m quoted in part was to the cartels in Mexico: don’t bring your violence and what you’re doing in Juarez, etc over into the United States or you will be met with an overwhelming response. It is true there are crimes on this side of the border, the murder of a rancher in Arizona is one example, but it is inaccurate to extrapolate from that to say the entire border is out of control. With respect to that 44 percent number, I think it is important to recognize that operational control is a very narrow term of art in border patrol lingo. Basically, it is restricted to where you have individual agents located. It does not take into account infrastructure, it does not take into account technology which is a force multiplier as you know. I think it would be inaccurate to take from that number or that phrase to say well that means the other percentage of the border, 56%, is out of control. That would not be accurate.
02.01.2011	“Judge Vinson’s ruling affirms the position that many of us have taken from the outset: that the federal government forcing individual Americans to purchase health insurance or any other product or service violates the United States Commerce Clause. I commend Judge Vinson for upholding the Constitution and personal liberties, and I urge this case to be expedited to the United States Supreme Court for a swift decision.”
01.31.2011	"The Egyptian people have legitimate grievances that need to be addressed, and I urge President Mubarak to initiate democratic reforms leading to free and fair elections. The United States and the international community should provide continued support for peaceful interaction between Egypt's government and its people. However, we must also be mindful of extremist elements inside Egypt seeking to manipulate the current situation which might threaten a new, more democratic state. A stable Egypt is essential to the stability of the region and the national security of the United States."
01.25.2011	Statement by Congressman McCaul in response to President Obama's State of the Union Address:01/25/11"For more than two years the President and his party have had the opportunity to create jobs, improve the economy and cut the deficit. Unfortunately, the President has done just the opposite, embarking on a massive expansion of government and the welfare state. Despite the government’s massive spending binge, we still have historic unemployment and the greatest debt in U.S. history. In order to boost private-sector job creation we must cut spending and focus on getting our fiscal house in order.After millions of Americans went to the polls to overwhelmingly reject runaway government spending, colossal unemployment and the failed policies of the last two years, I am encouraged that the President has finally expressed his willingness to work with Republicans to cut spending and reduce our unacceptable $14 trillion national debt. Without swift action to cut spending, we will chain future generations to debt and rob them of the chance to reach for the American Dream. Republicans know that a larger and more intrusive government leads to a weaker and less innovative economy. We are working to get Washington out of the way so the private sector can thrive again. I hope that in the weeks and months to come the President will back up his words with action, and fulfill his pledge to work with Republicans to get America back on track.”
01.05.2011	Congressman McCaul Emphasizes Oversight as he is Sworn in to 112th Congress McCauls and their five children with Speaker Boehner:Top (L-R): Jewell McCaul, Speaker John Boehner, Mrs. Linda McCaul, Congressman Michael McCaul, Caroline McCaulBottom (L-R): Avery, Michael, Lauren McCaul (triplets)WASHINGTON, D.C. – As he was sworn in for his fourth term, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) expressed optimism about a new direction for America and emphasized the need for comprehensive oversight of the federal government to ensure efficient operations and use of taxpayer dollars. “Today begins a new era of listening to the American people and holding government accountable,” said Rep. McCaul. As the newly-appointed chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigation and Management, Rep. McCaul plans to scrutinize all major aspects of the Department of Homeland Security to identify waste, fraud and abuse, as well as any gaps and unnecessary redundancies in DHS operations including border security, intelligence gathering and risk assessment, air travel and cybersecurity.“Our first responsibility is to ensure all operations are functioning at a high level to secure the border and prevent terrorist attacks,” said Rep. McCaul. “Scrutinizing every dollar we spend will help to ensure both fiscal and operational effectiveness.”Throughout the 112th Congress the subcommittee, which possess subpoena powers, will conduct investigations and hold hearings to assess both the operational and fiscal status of DHS programs. The role of the subcommittee mirrors House Republicans’ commitment to placing greater emphasis on oversight of federal programs which is important to ensuring maximization of taxpayer dollars and resources.In addition to his committee service, Congressman McCaul will continue his personal efforts to reform Washington and cut wasteful spending. Rep. McCaul has not requested earmarks since 2008 until the process becomes transparent. He played a role implementing last year’s earmark moratorium among House Republicans, which was extended into the new Congress. He has joined fellow House members in cutting his 2011 office budget by five percent. And he applauds changes in House rules implemented by the new Republican majority. Among them:Bills must cite constitutional authorityBills must be publicly posted online for three days before a floor voteReplace “Pay-go” with “cut-go”, requiring members to cut at least as much as any new spendingStrikes the Gephardt rule that automatically allows congress to raise the debt ceiling without a voteGives Budget Chairman the power to unilaterally impose budget limits for the current fiscal year “These are all necessary steps that I believe will increase accountability, help reign in spending and gain back the public’s trust,” said Rep. McCaul.In addition to the Homeland Security Committee, Congressman McCaul will continue to serve on the Foreign Affairs, Science and Technology, and Ethics Committees, and he will continue to play a major role shaping high tech and cybersecurity policy.
12.20.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) has been appointed to serve as Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations and Management during the 112th Congress. The subcommittee will be responsible for oversight of all Department of Homeland Security operations including border security, intelligence gathering and risk assessment, air travel and cybersecurity.“This committee’s priority is to ensure the security of our borders, our transportation systems, computer networks and critical infrastructure, and to make sure that vital intelligence is shared in order to prevent terrorist attacks before they are carried out. All of our operations must be both effective and fiscally efficient,” said Congressman McCaul, who is completing his service as Ranking Member of the Intelligence Subcommittee. “To do this we must ensure that the men and women protecting our nation and thwarting terror plots have clearly defined processes and procedures without gaps or unnecessary overlaps in responsibility,” Rep. McCaul continued.Throughout the 112th Congress the subcommittee, which possess subpoena powers, will conduct investigations and hold hearings to assess both the operational and fiscal status of DHS programs. The role of the subcommittee mirrors House Republicans’ commitment to placing greater emphasis on oversight of federal programs which is important to ensuring maximization of taxpayer dollars and resources.“I am very pleased to make this appointment,” said Congressman Peter King (R-NY), Chair-elect of the Homeland Security Committee. “As a member of the Homeland Security Committee since 2005, Michael has demonstrated his steadfast commitment to protecting our homeland from the terrorists who continue to plot and execute attacks against our nation. Michael is greatly qualified to lead this subcommittee; currently the top Republican of the Subcommittee on Intelligence, Information Sharing and Terrorism Risk Assessment, he is a former federal prosecutor and the former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Investigations in the 109th Congress who has long been focused on eliminating waste, fraud and abuse. I am confident that Michael will ensure that the Department of Homeland Security is effective in its mission and maximizes its resources.”As chairman of the Subcommittee on Investigations during the 109th Congress, Congressman McCaul uncovered more than $1 billion in waste, fraud and abuse in FEMA’s response to hurricanes Katrina and Rita. His 2006 report, A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border, exposed the emergence of Mexican drug cartels, the threat of escalating violence and the potential for terrorist groups to exploit the porous border to gain illegal entry into the United States.
12.15.2010	“Voters sent a clear message last month to stop the out of control deficit spending in Washington. Unfortunately many members continue to demonstrate that they are tone deaf. They continue to charge the taxpayers for their pet projects and defy the will of the American people.”
10.19.2010	October 19, 2010 KATY, TX – Realtors are in the process of viewing potential sites in the Katy and Tomball areas for two new Community Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOC) to address the healthcare needs of our veterans. The progress comes after two years of inquiries by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) cutting through the red tape of the Veterans’ Administration.“This is progress for thousands of our veterans in west Harris County, as well as many in Austin, Waller and Washington Counties who rely on VA care but who have to travel all the way to the Medical Center in Houston for treatment,” said Rep. McCaul. “These brave men and women deserve to have their doctor in their own community and they can finally think of this in more realistic terms. Soon they’ll be able to drive by a site and say ‘that’s where it’s going’, and soon after that we should see construction.”In its market research the VA is looking at existing structures that can be renovated and expanded. The VA’s current timeline is to select a site toward the end of this year, break ground next June and complete the facility in 2012.When completed, the Katy and Tomball CBOC’s are each expected to accommodate 65,000 annual patient visits. Each will provide comprehensive primary care and mental health services. Primary care will consist of health promotion, maintenance, routine and urgent care procedures and education. Mental health services will provide medication management, screening and prevention for mental health disorders including evaluation for mental illness, substance abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and sexual trauma counseling. Congressman McCaul remains committed to overseeing the site selection process and construction, holding the VA accountable to its proposed timeline for completion of each clinic. He is also committed to ensuring this process is transparent.
09.23.2010	"Those in power in Washington have ignored the voices of the American people who have been speaking out against their agenda that continues to compound our debt and kill jobs. It is time for the People’s voices to be heard again and for the People to set their government’s agenda. A Pledge to America is the People’s voice. It reflects many of the ideas we have long supported including a tangible plan to create jobs and reduce our debt, and common-sense healthcare reform that expands access to care without killing jobs. It includes a commitment to national security and border security. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to implement these ideas in the People's House."Download a copy of "A Pledge to America"
08.02.2010	WARWICK, R.I. –Congressmen Jim Langevin (D-RI) and Mike McCaul (R-TX) today launched a new House Cybersecurity Caucus website. The new online presence is intended to allow the public to have access to news and information in regard to cybersecurity policy.“This new page will help us further the mission of the caucus and allow us to continue to raise awareness about the importance of securing our nation’s cyber infrastructure – from large government agencies to our home networks,” said Langevin, caucus founder and co-chair. “Congress plays a key role in the future of cybersecurity policy. Please check the site frequently for updates about caucus activities as well as for the latest news and resources.”“The cyber threat is not science-fiction; it’s reality, and it needs to be taken seriously,” said McCaul, caucus co-founder and co-chair. “We need to educate Americans so they have a clear understanding of how the threat has evolved the severity of it, and the need to secure our networks. This site will go a long way toward that goal.”The site, https://cybercaucus.langevin.house.gov/ , includes links to important cyber sites including the US Cyber Command and the CSIS Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency, as well as helpful advice on how to secure personal computers and networks.
07.30.2010	McCaul Announces Major Step Toward Opening of Katy, Tomball VA ClinicsWill also benefit Veterans in Waller, Austin and Washington Counties WASHINGTON, D.C. – The much anticipated construction of VA community-based outpatient clinics (CBOCs) in Katy and Tomball is a significant step closer to reality. After two years of inquiries by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) cutting through red tape of the Veterans’ Administration, VA Secretary Eric Shinseki announced his approval of lease recommendations for each facility. This approval gives the clinics the green light to proceed with site selection and construction.“This day is a long time coming for the thousands of veterans in west Harris County, as well as many in Austin, Waller and Washington Counties who rely on VA care but who lack the convenience of an outpatient facility in their own community,” said Congressman McCaul. “These brave men and women put their lives on the line for our great nation. Giving them the ability to see a doctor closer to their home instead of driving all the way to the Medical Center in Houston is the least we can do for them.”The VA says it will begin advertising for potential clinic sites within 30 days of the Secretary’s approval. From that point, the timeline from land acquisition to design, construction and completion is projected to take between 12 and 24 months depending on variables related to each step in the process.When completed, the Katy and Tomball CBOC’s are each expected to accommodate 65,000 annual patient visits. Each will provide comprehensive primary care and mental health services. Primary care will consist of health promotion, maintenance, routine and urgent care procedures and education. Mental health services will provide medication management, screening and prevention for mental health disorders including evaluation for mental illness, substance abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and sexual trauma counseling. Congressman McCaul remains committed to overseeing the site selection process and construction, holding the VA accountable to its proposed timeline for completion of each clinic.
07.29.2010	Congressman Michael T. McCaul (R-TX)Ranking Member, Adjudicatory SubcommitteeCommittee on Standards of Official Conduct Remarks as DeliveredJuly 29, 2010, 1:00pm EDT Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you for holding this hearing.This is an important day, both for Mr. Rangel, for the Ethics Committee, for the Congress, but most importantly for the American People. As a Member of this Committee and a former federal prosecutor in the Public Integrity Section of the Department of Justice I take this responsibility very seriously.For the Committee, we have been presented by the Investigative Subcommittee with 13 very serious allegations relating to Mr. Rangel’s conduct. The Committee has not held a public hearing like this since 2002, when it considered evidence against James Traficant, who was convicted in federal court of multiple felony counts and subsequently served more than half a decade in prison.For Mr. Rangel, these proceedings present a fair and public opportunity to be heard before his peers and address each of the serious allegations against him. These actions, if proven, would violate multiple provisions of House rules and federal statutes. This includes his alleged violation of the most fundamental code of conduct, which states “a Member… of the House shall conduct himself at all times in a manner that shall reflect credibility on the House.” And credibility is exactly what is at stake here. The very credibility of the House of Representatives itself before the American people. I am mindful, as are my colleagues, of the solemn responsibility we bear when we are called upon to hear allegations of misconduct against a fellow Member. We have an obligation to Mr. Rangel that he has his day in court - so to speak - to present his own version of the events. But we also have an obligation to the American people to protect the integrity and credibility of the House and present the evidence supporting each of the 13 counts against him.It is certainly not lost on any member of this subcommittee on the approval ratings of this body. With only 11% of the public having a positive view of this institution, the pressure is even greater to ensure these proceedings are fair, open, and conducted in a strictly nonpartisan manner. In the mind of the American people Congress has become completely self-serving, and so tone-deaf, its members somehow feel the rules just don’t apply to them. We must regain the people’s trust.There has been talk in the media about Mr. Rangel negotiating a settlement. Let me be clear that Mr. Rangel under these rules was given opportunities to negotiate a settlement during the investigation phase. We are now in the trial phase. And the American people deserve to hear the truth in this case and the charges against him. And that is precisely why we are having this hearing today. The Speaker has said we are entering into an era of transparency and accountability. I agree, let us begin today. Let justice be served.The evidence to be evaluated by the investigative subcommittee must be presented to this subcommittee in the clearest and most straightforward way possible. Mr. Rangel must be allowed the opportunity to adequately defend himself against this evidence. There is no place for presumed guilt before innocence in this process and there will not be in this case. Only this type of process will allow each Member of this subcommittee to make an informed and independent determination as to whether clear and convincing evidence has been presented to prove each count alleged against Mr. Rangel.Turning from process to substance for a moment, it is important to note that the allegations presented to us are nothing less than serious.· The Investigative Subcommittee found that Mr. Rangel solicited foundations and corporations with business before the Ways and Means Committee, to fund a center bearing his name at the City College of New York. That allegations are that Mr. Rangel used his office staff and supplies at the taxpayers expense, including the Frank, to make the solicitations and personally met with corporate executives as part of his efforts to build the Center bearing his name.· On the Lenox Terrace issue, the Investigative Subcommittee found that Mr. Rangel’s landlord permitted Mr. Rangel, for over a decade, to use a rent-stabilized apartment in his residential apartment building for his campaign office. · The Investigative Subcommittee also looked at Mr. Rangel’s financial disclosures and taxes.· As a Member of Congress for nearly 40 years and Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee – which has jurisdiction over tax matters, Mr. Rangel, according to the charges, failed to report rental income on his federal tax returns and on his villa in the Dominican Republic over a period of years.· According to the Investigative Subcommittee, over the course of nearly a decade, Mr. Rangel failed to report more than $600,000 on his financial disclosure statements for these periods.These actions, if proven, would demonstrate that Mr. Rangel violated multiple provisions of the House rules and federal statutes. As we prepare to hear the charges against one of our most tenured colleagues in the House, we need to ensure we have done everything to reassure to the American public as a whole – that we will handle this matter with the utmost professionalism and nonpartisanship that it deserves.We can never forget that public office is a public trust. And with that I yield back. (END REMARKS)
07.15.2010	"I appreciate Secretary Napolitano’s visit to the border and recognizing the need to secure it. However, this administration’s commitment to providing resources for law enforcement agents along the border continues to fall short of what has been requested by our border sheriffs. Funding levels for Operation Stonegarden have stagnated this year and the administration has proposed cuts to the program in FY’11. The $47 million the Southwest Border has received is less than one tenth of the $500 million I proposed last year at the request of border sheriffs who rely on resources obtained through this program to protect against and respond to the ongoing threats of violence in their communities. The current funding does not give sheriffs the long-term commitment needed to retain qualified officers and replace outdated, substandard equipment to adequately protect their communities.”
07.14.2010	Washington, D.C.– Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) successfully added an amendment to a bill that advances environmentally responsible oil and gas exploration. The amendment, accepted in committee with bipartisan support, ensures federal research funding is spent on research and development for safer exploration and production methods. The bill reprioritizes funding in the existing program by increasing R&D funding for Safety and Accident Prevention and Mitigation within the Department of Energy.“This may help to advance, for example, understanding of the potential impacts of and alternatives to chemicals added to drilling muds, such as that used in the recent ‘top kill’ procedure,” Rep. McCaul said during today’s Science and Technology Committee markup. “Similar research needs exist with respect to onshore deep natural gas drilling activities.”A summary of the bill, the Safer Oil and Natural Gas Drilling Technology Research and Development Act, is below. Click here to read Rep. McCaul’s amendment. H.R. XXXX, the Safer Oil and Natural Gas Drilling Technology Research and Development ActBackground and NeedOn April 20, 2010, an explosion and fire occurred on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, which was in the final stages of drilling an exploratory well in approximately 5,000 feet of water. While investigation into the exact cause of the Deepwater Horizon accident is ongoing, it is understood to be a confluence of critical human errors and the failure of certain equipment designed to stop an incident. Deepwater drilling presents a unique set of technological challenges, including for safety and accident prevention and mitigation. Operations must be optimized to function under the extreme pressures, stresses, and temperatures which can effect equipment, drilling materials, and the hydrocarbon reservoir itself. Consequently, the industry has devoted billions of dollars to researching and developing technologies for both subsea and surface drilling systems specific to the deepwater and ultra-deepwater, especially those technologies which represent an increase in production efficiency. However, many contend that the industry has not devoted similar resources to the development of technologies and methods for accident prevention and mitigation. In addition to a series of operator errors, initial investigations of the Deepwater Horizon incident indicate that the primary technology failure lay in the Blowout Preventer (“BOP”). The BOP is a large mechanism on the seafloor comprised of a series of high pressure hydraulic valves designed to stop an uncontrolled flow of oil and gas from the well, including the “blind shear ram” which uses two blades to cut through the metal drill pipe and seal the wellbore. A BOP can be activated from the drill rig, automatically via a “deadman switch”, via acoustic signal from a vessel other than the drill rig, or manually by remotely-operated vehicles (“ROV”). ROVs also perform a range of other functions. Crew aboard the Deepwater Horizon attempted unsuccessfully to activate the BOP before evacuating the rig, and a number of subsequent attempts to activate the BOP using an ROV also failed. Many stakeholders inside and outside of the industry, including the CEO of BP, have concluded that the design of blowout preventers must be rethought altogether. Witnesses at the June 23 Energy and Environment Subcommittee hearing testified about the need for research into BOPs and a range of other accident prevention and mitigation technologies and practices. Section 999 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorizes the Secretary of Energy to establish an Ultra-Deepwater and Unconventional Onshore Natural Gas and Other Petroleum Resources research and development program. Management of the 999 program was awarded to a public-private research consortium known as the Research Partnership to Secure Energy for America, or RPSEA, which is overseen for DOE by the national Energy Technology Laboratory (“NETL”). The program is funded through $50 million in annual mandatory spending from offshore oil and gas royalty revenues collected by MMS. Of this, DOE conducts approximately $12.5 million of “in house” research at NETL. The remaining $37.5 million is managed by the research consortium, RPSEA, and is divided into three parts: ultra-deepwater architecture and technology (“UDW”); unconventional onshore natural gas and other resources; and technology challenges of smaller producers. RPSEA currently has approximately 170 members, with representation form across industry, academia, NGOs, and government laboratories and programs. IN the wake of the Deepwater Horizon tragedy, questions have arisen as to ho RPSEA and DOE activities under Section 999 could better serve the nation’s needs for development of advanced environmental and worker safety technologies and practices, while also providing a federal resource for technical expertise on deepwater and ultra-deepwater drilling technologies.The bill before the Committee makes a series of changes to the 999 program, including by: renaming the program, “Safer Oil and Natural Gas Drilling Technology Research and Development Program”; making a number of changes to shift focus and funding of the program to research and development of technologies for safety and accident prevention and mitigation; and by streamlining the operations of the Program.Summary of Major ProvisionsThe bill amends Subtitle J of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EPAct 2005”) (42 U.S.C. 16371 et seq.), “Ultra-Deepwater and Unconventional Natural Gas and Other Petroleum Resources”, to establish the “Safer Oil and Natural Gas Drilling Technology Research and Development Program"The bill adds “accident prevention and mitigation” as a program activity, and specifies that the program elements shall include deepwater activities in depths greater than 1000 feet. The bill also specifies that complimentary research will be carried out by the Department of Energy and the Office of Fossil Energy, instead of the National Energy Technology Laboratory. The bill also directs the Secretary of Energy to seek to establish partnerships with outside stakeholders for research not likely to be undertaken by the private sector alone.The bill amends the program elements to include a focus on advancing the safe and environmentally responsible exploration, development, and production of natural gas and other petroleum resources.The bill makes further changes to the areas on which the program should focus, including: (1) Deepwater Resources research and development will focus on safe and environmentally responsible technologies, integrated systems, and architectures for deepwater exploration and production, adapting operations to extreme weather and ocean conditions, and other activities; (2) Unconventional Onshore research and development will, in addition to its existing focus, now also focus on more energy efficient operations, improved management of produced water, and accident prevention, environmental mitigation, waste reduction, energy efficient operations, and well control and systems integritThe bill adds a new Safety, Accident Prevention and Mitigation Technology research and development program to be conducted by the Department of Energy. The program may focus, in addition to ongoing activities by the Department, on new in-house activities including: technologies and practices to enhance well control and integrity; blowout prevention devices; research on best practices for workforce training; secondary control systems for well shut-off; technologies for accident mitigation; and other activities as determined by the Secretary.The bill amends Section 999D of EPAct 2005 by making substantial changes to the current advisory committee structure. Most importantly, the two advisory committees know as the “Ultra-Deepwater Advisory Committee” and the “Unconventional Resources Technology Advisory Committee: will be consolidated into one advisory committee to be known as the “Program Advisory Committee.” The section also specifies membership of the Advisory Committee, authorizes the establishment of subcommittees and ad-hoc working groups, specifies the duties and compensation, and prohibits the Advisory Committee from making recommendations for specific awards.The bill changes the funding allocations tot the program focus areas by: (1) decreasing funding for Deepwater research and development from the 35 percent to 32.5 percent; (2) decreasing funding for Unconventional Resources research and development from 32.5 percent to 25 percent; and (3) increasing funding for Safety and Accident Prevention and Mitigation research and development at the Department of Energy from 25 percent to 35 percent.The bill also makes conforming changes to EPAct 2005.Legislative HistoryOn June 23, 2010 the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment held a hearing entitled “Deepwater Drilling Technology, Research, and Development.” The purpose of the hearing was to explore the technologies, standards, and practices for prevention and mitigation of oil spillage during deepwater oil and natural gas drilling operations; the role of government-sponsored technology development programs in advancing these technologies; and, in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon tragedy, how firms will assess risk as it relates to incident prevention and mitigation.
06.30.2010	“Texas requested 1,000 National Guard troops over a year ago. Two hundred fifty over 1,200 miles doesn’t exactly represent a commitment to securing our border. Our Border Patrol agents and border sheriffs are outmanned. El Paso sits across a river from one of the most violent cities in the world. They need substantial support. I have further concerns that Guard members deployed will work in a support role instead of an operational capacity. It’s regrettable that the President did not consult the head of the Border Patrol about specific needs before ordering the deployment.”
06.25.2010	“Appointing a police chief of a sanctuary city to help lead the agency charged with arresting and deporting illegal immigrants sends a message that the Obama administration has little interest in enforcing our immigration laws. Chief Hurtt opted not to have HPD participate in ICE’s program to train local police to assist with immigration enforcement, so it is hard to believe that he will advocate this successful partnership from his federal position. This philosophy makes it abundantly clear to Texas, Arizona and other border states that no matter how many resources we allocate to secure our borders, we cannot trust the administration to fulfill this constitutional responsibility. I look forward to hearing how Chief Hurtt plans to reconcile his new responsibilities with his past practice of looking the other way.”
06.23.2010	“General McChrystal should be commended for his service to our country and for advancing our efforts to eradicate terrorism. While the circumstances of his departure are unfortunate, and the timing critical, we must keep our focus on our mission in Afghanistan to defeat al Qaeda, the Taliban and other extremist terror networks that continue to plot against the United States. General Petraeus led the successful surge in Iraq and he is a wise choice to continue a similar strategy in Afghanistan today.” Rep. McCaul serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and as Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee.
06.16.2010	“Our first priority must be to clean up the environmental damage caused by this spill and to make whole again those whose livelihoods and property have been harmed. America's beaches and wetlands must be restored to protect our sensitive environment and those who live and work on the Gulf Coast. I support a full investigation to prevent future disasters and so that we may hold those who are responsible fully accountable. Right now, unfortunately, the federal bureaucracy has delayed assistance from reaching those on the ground and has even prevented aid from the Netherlands and other allies who have the necessary equipment and expertise from being utilized to help clean up this spill. We must cut through the bureaucracy and use every tool at our disposal.“However, I believe this can and should be done while exploration continues. The Gulf of Mexico supplies 30% of our nation's oil and gas. Six months from now these rigs will have permanently relocated to waters off Brazil, Venezuela, Africa and the Middle East if they are not allowed to operate here. “I am sponsoring a bill that Rep. Pete Olson is introducing this week to repeal the moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. As horrible as this spill is, shutting down 33 rigs will only compound this tragic environmental devastation with an economic disaster for Texas and other Gulf states. It is estimated that tens of thousands of jobs and $2 billion in wages will be lost if the moratorium continues. On Saturday, I joined Reps Olson, Kevin Brady and Joe Barton at a press conference in Dallas. We hosted several oilfield support businesses who told us they have already begun to layoff workers and that millions of dollars worth of their equipment was already shipped back to shore. “I agree with the President that our focus should be on cleanup and accountability. However, this horrendous spill aside, Cap and Trade legislation that the President continues to pursue remains bad policy for the United States. A national energy tax will not get the spill cleaned up any faster. It will only serve to drive up the cost of oil and gas and the expenses of any business or individual that uses those fuels. One day America will operate largely on alternative energy, but we aren’t there yet.“I continue to support the accelerated development of alternative fuels, including wind, solar, nuclear and clean coal as part of an ‘all of the above’ strategy that will be necessary to achieve America's long-term energy independence. However, the fact is America will remain reliant on oil and gas for decades and expanding domestic exploration and production on and offshore in an environmentally responsible manner is absolutely necessary. This short-sighted moratorium only increases our dangerous dependence on foreign oil, threatening our economy and our national security.”
06.04.2010	“In recent days I have discussed the potential of small scale attacks in the United States. While much of our focus has been on New York and Washington, we are seeing once again that terrorist connections exist in our own back yard. We have now repeatedly seen connections between Anwar al-Awlaki and al Qaeda to the Houston area and to Texas. In addition to Barry Bujol, Major Nadal Hasan, the Fort Hood terror suspect, had direct ties to Awlaki. The Times Square bombing suspect, Faisal Shahzad, was reportedly funded by friends that once lived in Houston; the Christmas Day bomber, Umar Farouk Abdulmuttalab, attended the al Maghrib Institute in Houston; and last September, Hosam Smadi was arrested and charged with attempting to use a WMD in downtown Dallas. We must not think that Texas is immune to the terror threat our nation faces. “Our law enforcement should be commended for their work tracking Bujol and preventing him from traveling to the Middle East. I remain committed to ensuring that the Houston fusion center, which I visited this week, has the resources and access to information necessary to be fully aware of the threats that exist in the fourth largest city in the country. Fusion centers are the eyes and ears of our Intelligence Community at the local level responsible for gathering and analyzing intelligence from local, state and federal authorities. This latest terror arrest only reinforces the need for information-sharing and partnership between all levels of government.”
05.26.2010	Video of McCaul’s exchange is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=omCmysD6ed4.WASHINGTON, D.C. – President Obama’s plan to eliminate NASA’s Constellation program would jeopardize America’s national security and send a message to the world that the United States no longer cares about being the dominant force on the world stage. That assessment came from retired astronaut Gene Cernan in response to Congressman McCaul’s concerns about the proposed cuts."My concern is that the handoff (to commercial space flight), it’s not an appropriate handoff. They can’t pick up the ball and run with it right now. And my concern is we’re going to have a gap in our superiority in space and we’re going to lose to the Chinese and the Russians," said Rep. McCaul during today’s Science and Technology hearing on the future of NASA human space flight. "It’s (NASA human space flight) an asset for national security. We can access probably anywhere in lower earth orbit we need to be to do anything we want to do. Repair, recover, replace, satellites, scientific missions like the Hubble. It affects our security because we won’t have the access," said Cernan. "We won’t have the capability to be there when we need to be there. We are hostages, literally hostages, I say, to other nations. "And it also implies subjectively that we no longer care. Something happens to some other place in the world, ‘don’t worry about it, they don’t care. They’re not gonna come to our rescue. They’re not gonna protect freedom around the world,’" Cernan continued. "If we are viewed by other nations, by other people around the world as being willing to abdicate our leadership in space, what else do they believe we are willing to dismantle without reason?""If for the next decade we have no access to space we will be viewed by people around the world as being a ‘has been’," added retired Astronaut Neil Armstrong. Two of the three astronauts at today’s hearing testified they do not believe the president’s plan to cut Constellation in lieu of commercial space travel is executable. The third said it is highly unlikely. "That’s pretty powerful," said Rep. McCaul.
05.25.2010	"Fifteen months after I first requested National Guard troops be deployed to the US-Mexico border I am encouraged to see the Obama administration has finally decided to acknowledge this threat to our national security. While this is a good first step, the President’s request does not represent a commitment to the number of troops requested. I continue to urge the administration to ensure our border agents have ample resources, permanently increase the number of federal agents, authorize a dedicated number of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles to Texas and expedite the use of Department of Defense surveillance technology that has been used successfully in Iraq and Afghanistan. Until the United States is committed to a comprehensive border security strategy, we will continue to experience the illegal trafficking that threatens our nation." Last month McCaul passed an amendment to H.R. 4842, the "Homeland Security Science and Technology Authorization Act of 2010", encouraging the Department of Homeland Security to consider using Department of Defense technologies along the US-Mexico border and elsewhere as a measure to expedite security and save taxpayer dollars. McCaul authored the 2006 report A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border exposing the rise of the drug cartels and the potential exploitation of our borders by terrorist groups.
05.25.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) and House Republicans launched America Speaking Out, an official effort of House Republicans to involve the American people in creating a new policy agenda for the 111th Congress."Our democracy was founded on the basis of representative government listening to the people who elect them to serve," said Rep. McCaul. "At a time when the leadership in Washington is clearly not listening, we have begun an open discussion with the American people. Policy should not be created in back rooms inside the capitol. The ideas should come from ordinary people in our communities."America Speaking Out is a nationwide town hall that welcomes any viewpoint regardless of party affiliation. It gives Americans a voice, allowing them to debate ideas that are posted, offer one of their own, or start a new debate under the Open Mic.Congressman McCaul urges everyone to participate in this unprecedented effort to restore the broken bonds of trust between Americans and their elected leaders that will eventually lead to a new policy agenda rooted in the principles of a smaller and more accountable government.
05.21.2010	“I am grateful to Dennis Blair for his service and commitment to keeping our nation safe. The Director of National Intelligence is one of the most important jobs in Washington. I hope the next Director will be given the necessary autonomy to carry out the mission of bringing the Intelligence Community together to keep America safe. The White House must empower and support the DNI in this effort. We’ve seen 15 terror plots against our country in the last year and too many times we’ve escaped mass loss of life by shear luck. We have to be right all the time. The terrorists only have to be right once.”
05.19.2010	"I urge the Obama administration to show the same commitment to securing our borders as President Calderon has personally shown to tracking cartels, sharing intelligence and cooperating with the United States. While small steps have been taken, the House Homeland Security Committee has failed to pass a single bill to secure the southwest border since Democrats took control of Congress three years ago. We must give our border sheriffs greater resources, increase the number of Border Patrol agents, expedite technology to complete the virtual fence and deploy the National Guard as a temporary stop-gap measure against illegal trafficking that threatens our communities and jeopardizes our national security. Continued complacency is not an option."Congressman McCaul has been invited by the White House to participate in events marking Calderon's visit. McCaul authored the 2006 report A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border exposing the rise of the drug cartels and the potential exploitation of our borders by terrorist groups. McCaul has visited Calderon in Mexico City and has confronted border violence since he was Chief of Counter-Terrorism in the US Attorney's Office in Texas.
05.17.2010	McCaul Awarded ‘High Tech Legislator of the Year’ for Supporting Policies that Create Jobs and Strengthen US CompetitivenessAUSTIN, TX – The Information Technology Industry Council awarded Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) its coveted Legislator of the Year Award for 2009 for his support of congressional policies that benefit American technology companies. "I’m proud to accept this award. The high tech industry is a key component of our nation’s economy and it accounts for a greater percentage of jobs in Austin than in any other city in the country," said Rep. McCaul, who sits on the House Science and Technology Committee. "Companies such as IBM, Dell and Applied Materials need to be able to count on a skilled workforce and need to defray the enormous cost of research and development to lead the world in innovation." "Since the day he took office, Congressman McCaul has worked tirelessly to advance a technology-centric agenda that will create jobs, increase our nation’s competitiveness and drive sustainable growth across every sector of our nation’s interconnected economy," said Dean Garfield, ITI president and CEO. "We value his commitment to these issues and congratulate him on being named one of our legislators of the year."ITI presented the award to Congressman McCaul based on several criteria:McCaul champions issues important to the technology community including trade, tax policy, cybersecurity, patent reform, education and basic research Founded and co-chairs both the bipartisan Congressional High Tech Caucus Most recently led the effort to extend and expand the R&D tax credit Leader in the field of Cybersecurity including the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus Consistently promoted cooperation and an open dialogue with technology companiesSince entering Congress in 2005, Rep. McCaul has prioritized the needs of the technology industry to help keep American innovators competitive and strengthen the economy. Rep. McCaul shares the Legislator of the Year Award with Sen. Charles Schumer (D-NY), Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Rep. Richard Neal (D-MA). Rep. McCaul’s Congressional High Tech InitiativesCongressional High Tech Caucus (founder, co-chair) Brings together members and industry in a non-partisan pledge to lead Congress in finding ways to keep America’s tech sector strong and provide it with the support to remain on the cutting edge. R&D Tax Credits (Feb. 2010) Collected more than 100 members’ signatures on a joint letter (Rep. Eshoo) supporting efforts to include the R&D Tax Credit as part of any economic recovery legislation that Congress considers. McCaul seeks to make the R&D credit permanent in order to help businesses with their planning and projections. He also seeks to simplify the credit making it easier for businesses to understand what they qualify for, without having to hire tax lawyers and other consultants. Deferral and repatriation Supports tax deferral, a policy that would allow U.S. companies operating overseas to pay a lower tax rate on foreign-earned income, giving these companies the opportunity to compete on a level playing field with foreign competitors. The U.S. corporate tax rate is second highest in the world. Cybersecurity Caucus (co-founder, co-chair)A non-partisan body that works with government and industry to develop policy addressing ways to secure the computer networks that operate America's critical infrastructure. Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency (co-chair)Worked with the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and dozens of the best and brightest private sector experts and government officials to develop recommendations to President Obama to secure cyberspace and protect our national interests. Executive Cyberspace Authorities Act of 2010 (lead Republican Sponsor) Establishes a National Cyber Office and Coordinator who must be confirmed by the Senate. This office will have direct authority to ensure government agencies are taking adequate steps to secure their networks. The coordinator will also develop a plan, approved by Congress, to coordinate with the private sector and with foreign governments to ensure protection of our critical infrastructure. Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2009 (lead Republican sponsor) Sets security standars for federal computer systems and develop checklists for agencies to follow, improves coordination outside government through a federal-private sector-university task force, improves cyber R&D and improves quality of cyber workforce. America COMPETES Act of 2010 Increases research investment, strengthens educational opportunities in science, technology, engineering and math, and promotes innovation and competitiveness in the public and private sectors.
05.14.2010	“The addition of unmanned aerial drones is a major step forward in securing our border with Mexico. The drones will allow us to patrol areas that are difficult to access on the ground in the Big Bend region. I look forward to further authorization for drones to be used along the rest of the border all the way to the Gulf Coast. While this represents progress, I will continue to fight to expedite surveillance technology, and for additional federal agents and the use of National Guard troops along the border. The final approval of drones comes on the heels of a meeting we had with Secretary Napolitano yesterday and I appreciate the swift action by the administration.”
05.11.2010	"I look forward to the United States strengthening our relationship with Great Britain, America's closest ally, under Prime Minister Cameron. Our nations must continue to speak with one voice in pursuing our mutual interests of defeating terrorism, securing Israel and preventing rogue nations from developing nuclear weapons."
05.10.2010	“Confirming someone to our nation’s highest court should be done with the utmost scrutiny. Elena Kagan deserves a fair hearing that will fully explore her record, including her lack of experience both as a judge and as a practicing attorney and her troubling decision to ban military recruiters from Harvard Law School when she was Dean. If she is confirmed by the Senate it is my hope that she bases her decisions strictly on the Constitution and does not legislate from the bench based on her personal political beliefs.”
05.06.2010	“This is the second time in four months that luck and a terrorist’s incompetence prevented the mass murder of Americans. We cannot count on luck as a national security strategy. I applaud the citizens who were vigilant in notifying police of suspicious activity, and I applaud law enforcement and intelligence officials for identifying and arresting Shahzad before he left the United States. However, I am greatly concerned that he was able to get onto an international flight despite being placed on the No Fly List. I look forward to a clearer understanding of what happened between the time Shahzad was identified and the time he boarded the plane. While we are still early in the investigation, ultimately Congress needs to ensure that all passengers are checked against real time information from our Intelligence Community, and that officials are instantly able to act on that information. Anything short of this is inexcusable. Our hope is that Secure Flight will accomplish this.”
05.06.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Jim Langevin (D-RI) and Michael McCaul (R-TX) today introduced a bill that will establish strong, centralized oversight to protect our nation’s critical information infrastructure and design a comprehensive policy for operating in cyberspace. The Executive Cyberspace Authorities Act of 2010 closely follows recommendations developed by the CSIS Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency, which the two Congressmen co-chaired, by establishing a National Cyberspace Office in the Executive Office of the President that includes strong authorities over agency information security policies.“This legislation is long overdue and will help fill a critical void in our cybersecurity infrastructure,” said Langevin, co-chair of the House Cybersecurity Caucus. “While the President’s establishment of a Cybersecurity Coordinator was an encouraging step, the position was not given the proper authorities to adequately secure our networks and coordinate IT policy across government. Our legislation aims to enhance this position, giving it more authority.”“Every day our government and private networks are breached and often sensitive, proprietary information is stolen by individuals and rogue nations,” said McCaul. “We know these groups intend to inflict harm on the United States. This legislation will finally establish the necessary coordination to protect our networks and infrastructure from sabotage.”Under the bill, the National Cyberspace Office (NCO) will be led by a Cyberspace Director, who will be appointed by the President subject to confirmation by the Senate and have a seat on the National Security Council. Along with coordinating the security of our federal information infrastructure policies and practices, the Cyberspace Director would also review and approve each civilian federal agency budget relating to the protection of information technology (IT) infrastructure. The legislation further directs that each civilian agency include with its annual budget:A review of threats faced by the agency to its information security systems A plan to secure the agency’s IT infrastructure, based upon National Institute of Standards and Technology guidelines and recommendationsAgency compliance with its established IT practices, including compliance with the Federal Information Security Management Act A report on development of secure identity and authentification processesAlso, under the bill, the Cyberspace Director may recommend that the President withhold awards and bonuses for specific agencies that fail to make adequate efforts to secure their IT infrastructure in their budgets. The Cyberspace Director will also be responsible for annually providing to Congress an assessment of agency progress in developing and implementing IT policies, significant agency deficiencies and planned remedial action.
04.29.2010	“The citizens of Puerto Rico already possess the ability to express their territory’s political status and no action from the United States Congress is needed. While I favor Puerto Rico reaching a conclusion of its territorial status that has been clouded for over 100 years, it has become clear that this legislation could become the first step in the long process of achieving statehood and therefore I voted against it.”
04.14.2010	I applaud Citizens Against Government Waste for shining a bright light on this egregious abuse of spending taxpayer money by members on both sides of the aisle. I urge every American to read their report. Two years ago I took a stand against this broken and corrupt process by refusing to request earmarks until the system is 100% transparent as to the sponsor and recipient and until each earmark is subject to an up or down vote on the House floor. I am proud that my House Republican colleagues recently joined my stand for reform. Americans deserve a real commitment to stop spending their hard-earned money on wasteful special interest pork projects.” Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor in the Department of Justice’s Public Integrity Unit, stopped requesting earmarks at the beginning of 2008. He has also led the “No Monuments to Me” effort, which bans funding of projects named after sitting members of Congress. Please see Rep. McCaul’s op-ed on earmark spending published in the Houston Chronicle.
03.21.2010	“Liz was a close friend and a pioneer. She helped blaze a trail for women and she wrote the words that began to heal the nation on one of our darkest days. Her sense of humor and sharp wit were a true gift. While Liz was the spirit of Democrats in Texas and beyond her friendships and warmth crossed party lines. Linda and I will miss her dearly and our prayers are with her family.”- Congressman McCaul
03.21.2010	“In a desperate effort to pass a sweeping government takeover of our health care system, Democrats passed H.R. 3950, The Patient Protection and Health Care Affordability Act along with a package of desired ‘fixes’, H.R. 4872, The Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act. In a purely partisan fashion, the Democrats have now passed the largest tax increase in history, a massive expansion of entitlements, and policies which will put the health care system at the whim of the Federal Government. “One of the most distressing aspects of this legislation is the dishonesty which has been utilized for its passage. I am shocked that Democrats support this 2,700 page monstrosity, complete with its slew of sweetheart deals that benefit home states of members who once opposed the bill. Despite the backlash that rightfully followed these deceitful kickbacks, the Democrats included even more million-dollar deals for specific members in the reconciliation package. This tactic is an abuse of power, an abuse of taxpayer money, and abandons the integrity that the American public expects from their Congress. “The numbers in this plan are astounding. The bill costs about $1.2 trillion over the next ten years, imposes almost $570 billion in new taxes on the American public, and cuts the Medicare program by over $500 billion. As our economy attempts to recover from the largest recession since the Great Depression, this bill’s laundry list of new taxes is deplorable: $32 billion in taxes on health care benefits, $52 billion in taxes on employers, $17 billion in penalties on individuals, $210.2 billion in an unprecedented Medicare tax on wages, self-employment income, and certain investment income, and many more. While these taxes will be in effect immediately, 98% of the bill’s provisions do not begin until 2014. Therefore, Americans will be paying for health reform for four years without ever seeing the government return the favor. Unbelievably, the bill’s true ten-year cost when fully implemented totals about $2.4 trillion dollars.“What may be worse than the vast cost of this bill are the budgetary gimmicks used in its scoring. The authors use ten years of revenue to pay for only six years of government spending. They also double count savings from Medicare cuts to simultaneously pay for Medicare entitlements and the bill’s new entitlements. Furthermore, the bill does not include the $371 billion “doc fix,” legislation that will likely be passed separately to ensure doctors do not incur a huge cut in reimbursements. These methods were used to dupe the American people, a smoke-and-mirrors strategy to uphold President Obama’s pledge that health care reform will “not add a dime to the deficit.” Unfortunately, if one omits these budgetary tricks from the bill’s cost, it will actually increase the deficit by almost $600 billion in the first ten years.“The structure of this bill is a clear effort to give the government complete control over health care—it takes choice and flexibility from American citizens while also making them pay more. For example, the bill instructs the Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary to determine what constitutes a ‘minimum benefits package’ for all Americans, and then reserves the right to fine the American people two percent of their income for not purchasing this insurance. I believe that individuals can best determine for themselves how comprehensive their health care insurance should be, and that Americans have many different needs which cannot be defined by a one-size-fits-all package. Unfortunately, H.R. 3590 sets the stage for mandated, standardized health care. “My Republican colleagues and I proposed legislation that would address the core reforms of ensuring access to care regardless of means and pre-existing conditions without needlessly punishing individuals, families and businesses, without killing jobs, and without driving an estimated one-third of doctors out of their profession, as is cited in the New England Journal of Medicine. Instead, the Democrats opted to push through their partisan, social agenda against the will of a majority of the American people.”# # #
03.18.2010	McCaul Demands Immediate Action on BorderQuestions Napolitano, CBP on Drones, Remote Camera Systems WASHINGTON, D.C. – With the war involving drug cartels once again escalating along the U.S.-Mexico border, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) urged the Department of Homeland Security to reprioritize the installation of long-delayed security measures, some of which are part of SBInet, a program that has been plagued with cost overruns and delays.“She said ‘I want to take a timeout and review this situation, assess SBInet’, Rep. McCaul said during today’s subcommittee hearing, of his conversation with Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano. “We can’t afford any more timeouts. 2008, then 2013, then we were told the earliest this could be completed is 2016. Meanwhile, there’s a war going on. There are people being killed and it’s going to spill over into this country. It’s a security threat not only to Mexico but a national security threat to the United States.”Congressman McCaul’s latest appeal for increased border security comes after increased violence from drug cartels against U.S. Consulate workers and their families in Juarez. Video is available from today’s hearing on three topics: Some SBInet cameras are working so why the further delays? How do we expedite security?Reiterates Gov. Perry’s request for more drones (Unmanned Aircraft Systems)
03.18.2010	Washington, DC – Houston Mayor Annise Parker (D), and Reps. Gene Green (D), Pete Olson (R), Sheila Jackson Lee (D), Kevin Brady (R), John Culberson (R), Al Green (D), Michael McCaul (R), and Ted Poe (R) today joined together in a bipartisan effort to express unified support for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) Constellation program. The President’s FY2011 budget would kill the Constellation program, placing America’s ability to send humans in to space in jeopardy and place thousands of jobs at Johnson Space Center (JSC) and across the nation in jeopardy. Mayor Annise Parker said, “While I am pleased we have begun the discussion, many questions remain unanswered and I continue to have serious concerns about the future of human space flight and the role JSC will play under the administration's proposed NASA budget."Rep. Gene Green said, “Given our current economic downturn, we cannot take the possibility of an additional 20,000 - 30,000 national job losses lightly. Our government has already invested literally years and billions of dollars into this program. We should build upon these investments and not abandon them.”Rep. Pete Olson said, “Constellation was overwhelmingly approved by both Republican and Democratic controlled Congresses precisely because human space flight is such an intrinsic component of American exceptionalism. It is also critical to our ability to remain competitive globally in the fields of science and technology. I am proud to stand shoulder to shoulder with my Houston colleagues to make the case for the national value and benefits of the investment in Constellation.”Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee said, “NASA’s Constellation Program is vital to maintaining America’s leadership role in human space exploration, creating jobs, and boosting the economy. Continuation of NASA’s Constellation Program is crucial to improving national security, climate, and research in science and medicine. That is why I introduced legislation March 9 to ensure that all Constellation space flight activities continue through 2016 and that we designate NASA as a national security interest and asset.”Rep. Kevin Brady said, “NASA technologies like the Constellation Program are fundamental to the Greater Houston area not just for jobs but also for technology development. If this program is scrapped we will see an immediate job loss at a time when the Houston area needs to be creating jobs, not killing them.”Rep. John Culberson said, “The Constellation Program is the best program to keep our country at the forefront of space exploration. I am strongly opposed to the president’s proposal because yielding the high ground in space will make America less competitive and put our space program at risk.”Rep. Al Green said, “The ‘Constellation Program’ is a shovel ready jobs program. This program’s cancellation would not only have a negative effect on Houston’s economy, but also on the national economy. In Houston, by some estimates, 10,000 direct and indirect jobs could be lost, in addition to 20,000 to 30,000 jobs nationwide. We need to invest in these jobs as our nation continues to fight for the stability of its job market.”Rep. Michael McCaul said, “Every president since Washington has had a wish list but in the United States it's the Congress that writes the budget. We have growing bipartisan support and we intend to make sure human space flight and exploration remains the core mission of America's space program."Rep. Ted Poe said, ““Giving up on our space program will not only devastate our local economy and the engineering and aerospace industries, but will be a crippling blow to our national psyche. ‘Houston’ was the first word heard on the moon, not ‘Moscow,’ not ‘Beijing.’ NASA is America’s legacy – Houston’s legacy.”
03.17.2010	“I applaud Senator DeMint for his efforts. It’s unfortunate that Senate Democrats could not muster the political courage to join in stopping business as usual in Washington and commit to Americans that they will stop spending their money on wasteful special interest pork projects.”Rep. McCaul stopped requesting earmarks at the beginning of 2008 until the system is 100% transparent as to the sponsor and recipient and until each earmark is subject to an up or down vote on the House floor. House Republicans voted last week to impose a moratorium on earmarks, however Speaker Pelosi has refused to ask House Democrats to do the same.
03.11.2010	“Over two years ago I took an unpopular stand against this broken and corrupt earmark process by refusing to participate until it is reformed. Today I am encouraged that every House Republican has joined me in this stand and sending a strong message that it is no longer business as usual in Washington. Today’s commitment is a good start, but Congress needs to do more. I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to extend this moratorium until the system is permanently fixed. Earmarks must be 100% transparent as to the sponsor and recipient and each earmark must be subject to an up or down vote on the House floor. The current earmark system is emblematic of what’s wrong with Washington. The American people deserve a real commitment to stop spending their hard-earned money on wasteful special interest pork projects.”Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor in the Department of Justice’s Public Integrity unit, stopped requesting earmarks at the beginning of 2008. He has also led the “No Monuments to Me” effort, which has successfully banned the funding of various projects named after sitting members of Congress.Text of the moratorium is available here.
03.10.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (TX-10) helped honor nearly 200 women at the U.S. Capitol today, who received the Congressional Gold Medal for their service as a member of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) during World War II. Twenty-two of the women present were from Texas. Among them was Mildred Dalrymple of Austin (photo attached), who Rep. McCaul formally recognized at a ceremony in Austin last summer. “These women are finally recognized as heroines,” said Rep. McCaul. “My father flew bombing missions in World War II but the story of these brave women is one that’s little known because our country failed to recognize their service and the crucial role they played in our freedom. This is Congress’s way of bestowing a high honor for their heroic service.”Congress recently passed legislation to award Congressional Gold Medals, the highest civilian honor bestowed for courage, service and dedication, to each of the WASP. During World War II, with a shortage of male pilots, General Hap Arnold, Chief of the Army Air Forces, realized the need to utilize women pilots. More than 25,000 American women applied for training, but only 1,830 were accepted and took the oath. 1,074 women successfully completed the 21 to 27 weeks of Army Air Forces flight training, graduated, and received their Army Air Force orders. These women flew fighter, bomber, transport, and training aircraft in defense of America's freedom. These brave women also faced overwhelming cultural and gender bias and overcame multiple injustices and inequities in order to serve their country. Despite their service, they were not granted military status, and so received no military honors or benefits, and were all but ignored in the history books. The WASP did not earn military status until 1977, 33 years after they disbanded.
03.10.2010	“If Chairman Obey and the Democrats were truly interested in stopping wasteful spending they would join me in overhauling the earmark system. Two years ago I took a stand against this broken and corrupt process by refusing to participate until it is reformed. Americans deserve a real commitment to stop spending their hard-earned money on wasteful special interest pork projects. I will continue to encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in not requesting earmarks until the system is 100% transparent as to the sponsor and recipient and until each earmark is subject to an up or down vote on the House floor.”Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor in the Department of Justice’s Public Integrity Unit, stopped requesting earmarks at the beginning of 2008. He has also led the “No Monuments to Me” effort, which has successfully banned the funding of various projects named after sitting members of Congress.Please see Rep. McCaul’s op-ed against earmarks published in the Houston Chronicle, attached.
02.26.2010	Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) along with Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Co-Chairs of the House High Tech Caucus, have collected more than 100 members’ signatures on a joint letter supporting efforts to include the R&D Tax Credit as part of any economic recovery legislation that Congress considers. The R&D credit expired at the end of 2009. The letter and list of signatures collected as of Friday morning are attached.Congressman McCaul seeks to make the R&D credit permanent in order to help businesses with their planning and projections. He also seeks to simplify the credit making it easier for businesses to understand what they qualify for, without having to hire tax lawyers and other consultants.
02.25.2010	“I am disappointed that the president and Democrats came to the negotiating table today unwilling to waver from a government-regulated healthcare system that Americans continue to say they don’t want. The discussions produced something we already knew: both parties agree on several key issues such as allowing citizens to buy insurance across state lines, limiting annual and lifetime caps on coverage, preventing insurance companies from dropping coverage and allowing children to remain on their parents’ insurance plans longer. However, Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic leadership refuse to consider legislation limited to these items, even though it could pass with bipartisan support and begin to improve our healthcare system. Instead, they stubbornly insist on grouping the things we agree on into a bill that increases government regulation, mandates coverage and limits choice in coverage. I stand ready to pass the reforms we agree on, and willing to debate the more difficult challenges.”
02.25.2010	Audio/Video Available Here WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) received no assurances from NASA that jobs in the Houston area would be safe if the Obama administration carries out its plans to cut funding to the Constellation program. The President’s budget calls for shifting NASA’s responsibilities toward climate change and weather observation, and away from human space flight. “What are we to tell our constituents? What are we to tell people at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, TX, Clear Lake, people you know so well?” Rep. McCaul asked NASA Administrator Charles Bolden Jr. during today’s budget hearing on the Science and Technology Committee. “What impact is this going to have on them?” “We are going to do everything in our power to make sure the programs that develop from this budget that we are able to develop from the interface money that we’re gonna have, we’re gonna enable them to do the type of work that they do,” Bolden responded. “I wish I could give you definitive programs that we are going to have now but we are two or three weeks after the rollout of the budget and we have not had those types of answers,” Bolden continued. “I promise you that within months we’ll put some meat on the bones, if you will. Because I realize there’s a lack of detail and that’s disturbing to everyone. It’s disquieting and discomforting to me. We’re gonna get some answers.” President Obama’s plan to gut NASA’s Constellation program, the next phase of human space flight, lengthens the time that America will be out of the space business once the Shuttle program ends this year, wastes $9 billion that taxpayers have already invested, and ultimately could cost thousands of jobs. Congressman McCaul, who serves on the Space Subcommittee, believes it makes no sense to throw away a plan backed by 50 years of NASA experience and institutional knowledge in favor of startup operations that will not propel Americans back into space any cheaper or faster than the Constellation program. “Commercial space developers I do not believe are at the point where they can take over this program,” McCaul told Bolden. “I’m concerned about the human space flight mission being completely cut out of this budget, the Constellation program going away and an increase in funding toward something I don’t consider a core mission of NASA and that is climate change and weather observation,” McCaul said.
02.22.2010	“The pilot who deliberately crashed his plane into a government building in Austin was a troubled individual not connected with any organized terrorist networks. However, it reminds us that we are still vulnerable to terrorist attacks. My prayers are with the families of those affected by this tragedy. The rapid response and coordination of the Austin Fire and Police Departments, EMS and federal investigators, along with the heroic efforts of ordinary citizens, spared the lives of many. I believe no regulations could have stopped this attack and I oppose any new regulations on general aviation.”
02.12.2010	“I am highly disappointed by the Army’s decision. It’s the wrong decision for Sealy, and the wrong decision for the men and women who for 17 years have built the FMTVon time and on budget and contributed to our military’s success on the battlefield. It’s the wrong decision for our soldiers who depend on these vehicles. And it’s the wrong decision for taxpayers who, I believe, will pick up the tab for cost overruns because the awardee will not be able to produce the same quality FMTV for the price it promised in the bid. “Also disturbing is there appears to be a trend in this administration to move jobs out of Texas, whether it be cutting NASA’s human space flight program or BAE’s FMTV production. It is my sincere hope that the entire Texas delegation will work together to keep jobs in Texas. “In my numerous discussions with the Army it is clear their decision was based purely on cost, despite significant doubt within the business and defense communities that Oshkosh’s bid is realistic. To this point, the Army failed to order an independent cost analysis that would have determined whether Oshkosh could build the FMTV for the price it quoted. Further, the Army ignored the glaring facts that Oshkosh’s facilities are deficient, as determined by the GAO. It is truly unfortunate that the Army has turned a deaf ear to the factsdespite our numerous conversations directly with the Army on these issues. “Once BAE weighs its options I will support whatever course of action it decides is prudent. Meantime, I will continue to work with BAE and its workforce to explore future options. This is as an opportunity for Sealy, Austin County and this entire region to diversify and strengthen its economy. My staff and I have already begun coordinating efforts between BAE and the business community including the Greater Houston Partnership to identify options that will keep Sealy’s state of the art facility in operation.”
02.10.2010	"America has lost a true political hero. Charlie Wilson's convictions and courage as a member of Congress helped thwart the advancement of the Societ Red Army into the Middle East during the Cold War. Charlie will be remembered for his commitment to preserving the liberties of our allies, and for his actions that helped slow down the Communist regime, which eventually was brought to its knees under Ronald Reagan."
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House passed the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2009 by a vote of 422-5, advancing legislation essential to securing our federal computer networks from espionage and securing some of the nation’s critical infrastructure from destruction. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) is the lead Republican collaborating on this bipartisan national security initiative."This is an important first step. Every critical infrastructure is tied to cyber networks whether it be our utilities, power grids, financial institutions, air traffic controllers. Virtually every sector is vulnerable. I hope as with 9/11 we don’t turn a blind eye and have a denial of service attack before we address this issue," Rep. McCaul said on the House floor during debate.Congressmen McCaul co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President, which presented the report Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidency to President Obama detailing recommendations for securing the country's government networks and critical infrastructure, including telecommunications, energy and water. H.R. 4061, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, incorporates several key recommendations:Improves Coordination in government: Gives National Institutes of Standards and Technology the authority to set security standards for federal computer systems and develop checklists for agencies to follow. Improves Coordination outside of government: Creates a federal-university-private-sector task force to coordinate research and development. Improves R&D: Establishes Cybersecurity research and development grant programs. Improves quality of cyber professionals: Creates scholarship programs (undergraduate and graduate) at NSF that can be repaid with federal service. Requires the President to conduct an assessment of cybersecurity workforce needs across the Federal government.Congressional hearings on cybersecurity have revealed most federal agencies have been hacked into, and that the federal government is under threat of cyber attack on a daily basis. Many attacks are classified as espionage with foreign countries stealing government information. One data dump was equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. However, an attack over last 4th of July weekend is believed to have been an attempt to shut down federal networks and cause harm."This threat's not going away," said McCaul. "When you see these attacks more malicious in nature designed to do harm, that's very concerning.""Cybersecurity is a crucial priority for our nation and U.S. businesses," said Robert Holleyman, President and CEO of the Business Software Alliance. "We want to commend Congressman McCaul for his instrumental role in the passage of this bill."
02.01.2010	"It took the President less than a week to waiver from the promises in his State of the Union address to lower taxes and cut the record deficit. Instead, his proposed budget increases spending to a record of $3.75trillion next year and more than doubles our nation’s debt over the next five years. This includes the massive $1 trillion government takeover of healthcare despite an emphatic ‘no’ from the American people."This President tries to talk a good game, but his tax and spend budget reflects his true intentions. We cannot spend our way to economic prosperity. In a time of recession American families and businesses need the shackles of high taxes removed so they can create jobs and invest. Growing government and continuing to pour record debt onto our children is not the answer."
01.27.2010	Statement by Congressman McCaul in response to President Obama's State of the Union Address:"After losing a Senate seat in Massachusetts and a year of failed policies, I’m glad the President is finally listening to the American people and coming around to policies that conservatives have been advocating for years – giving tax breaks to small businesses that create jobs and cutting the capital gains tax. However, the President can’t have it both ways. Cutting some taxes while raising others to pay for new, expensive government programs doesn’t add up."What people want and what our country needs is a real commitment to create jobs, improve the economy and cut the deficit, not just expand the welfare state. Unfortunately, the President still does not show a commitment to cut spending. His $250 billion in savings over the next 10 years is merely symbolic, and is a drop in the bucket compared to our trillion dollar annual deficits. A spending freeze on discretionary programs only serves to secure the 57% increase in spending that the President approved in his first year in office. At this rate, our $12.2 trillion national debt will continue to climb. Tonight the President demonstrated that he either fails to understand the severity of our debt, or he prefers to ignore the American people’s cries to stop digging a hole for our children to climb out of."If the President is serious about getting America’s fiscal house in order he can start by setting aside his $1.2 trillion government takeover of our healthcare system and instead focus on only the necessary reforms."I join the rest of the House Republican leadership in once again offering our proven strategy of creating jobs and stimulating economic growth by permanently cutting taxes for families and small businesses and cutting the record deficit."# # #
01.27.2010	State Department to McCaul: Father was not a credible enough source to revoke terror suspect’s visa Below is the transcription of Congressman Michael McCaul’s (R-TX) exchange during today’s Homeland Security Committee hearing regarding intelligence failures that led to the Christmas Day terror attack. McCaul is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee. Bold highlighted material includes visa issue.Testifying:Michael E. Leiter, Director, National Counterterrorism CenterJane Holl Lute, Deputy Secretary, Department of Homeland SecurityPatrick F. Kennedy, Under Secretary, Management, Department of State McCaul: "Thank you Mr. Chairman, This was not, this was clearly a failure in intelligence. I think all the witnesses have agreed to that. The president of the United States has as well. It’s more than a failure to connect the dots as we talked about so much. It’s a failure to identify dots or specific threat information coming in and acting upon it appropriately. We had this Christmas bomber’s father going to the Embassy warning us about his son. State Department issues a cable that basically stated that and sent it to law enforcement and I assume to the NCTC and stated information <inaudible> that Farouk may be involved in Yemini based extremist. And I think members of Congress and the American people don’t understand why with that type of information and Director Leiter with the specific intelligence coming in through the IC the intelligence community why that wasn’t linked together number one and why it wasn’t acted upon to insure that this man never got on this airplane in the first place. I think we all agree that this visa should have been revoked immediately given the information, I cant get into the classified information that you are privy to, but it was specific, What happened here?"Leiter: "Congressman, some action was taken but as you have identified, as I have tried to say it was obviously not sufficient which was his name was entered into the terrorist identity <inaudible…> environment but that didn’t have automatic repercussions in terms of screening, visa revocation, or stopping him from boarding the plane. The other intelligence simply wasn’t identified associated with this individual. I can tell you that there was concern on the intelligence community’s part about potential attacks by Al Qaeda in Yemen and we were concerned even about the timing of that. What we didn’t connect was the individuals name or where that attack would occur. That was our failure."McCaul: "And was that because it was misspelled? The name was misspelled? To me, you know if you type my name into Google for instance, M-C-C-A-U-L it’ll say did you mean M-C-C-A-L-L and so do you not have a similar type of capability?Leiter: "The misspelling did not affect NCTC in any way it did affect as I understand it, and I’ll defer to Undersecretary Kennedy on this, from our perspective when his name was sent in, we actually put the spelling in both ways and the technology we use wouldn’t have made a difference."McCaul: "Did you not have the cable that the state department sent?"Leiter: "We did and we inserted the spelling based on a number of things."McCaul: "And you made a decision not to revoke the visa, given that information."Leiter:"I don’t have the authority to revoke the visa. That’s an authority <inaudible>"McCaul: "But can’t you call Secretary Kennedy and ‘you know I think we got a problem here, we ought to think about revoking this visa.’"Leiter: "The intelligence community can, frankly that normally doesn’t occur, if the nomination itself comes from the State Department, it’s.."McCaul: "Well I think there needs to be a lot better coordination going on here between these two entities. Mr. Kennedy, why given the information that you had why wasn’t the visa revoked?"Kennedy: "Sir, it’s as I mentioned earlier, when we get any information when anyone appears at American embassies, saying that they have doubts about someone, we immediately generate what is called visa viper message.? We send that to the entire law enforcement and intelligence communities… McCaul: "I understand the process but you had this information and you didn’t revoke the visa.? The cable I just read mentioned pretty clear that this man is associated with extremists in Yemen and you didn’t revoke his visa"Kennedy: "But it was his father said he was associated with this, so we went as the intelligence and law enforcement community if they have any other information.? I don’t want to take much of your time, I can go ahead and visit with you after. McCaul: "Well I think the father is a very credible source, this isn’t some anonymous person coming in, saying this."Kennedy: "We have people coming in, Sir to American embassies every day attacking their relatives."McCaul: "Well, I’m out of time but this was a failure extraordinaire, and I sure hope it doesn’t happen again. Secretary Lute, the last remaining time, they have identified a vulnerability in our system, I’m very concerned about the future, flights now, the system didn’t work and the screening you know they’re always a simple genius, they used chemical explosives which would be detected through x-ray but not through the magnetometer. I know we’re focused on the sixteen countries of interest in terms of pat-downs and more enhanced screening but I’m concerned about still the majority of airports out there where we are still vulnerable, they can still use this technique, and get an explosive, chemical explosives through the magnetometer. What is the Department of Homeland Security doing about that?"Lute: "Congressman, we are not just focused on those sixteen places that you’ve identified, we’re focused on aviation security globally, and the travelling public to ensure their safety.? People have talked about silver bullets, we don’t look for silver bullets in homeland security, we know it takes a layer, multiple measures at layers and not just by us but by our international partners and it takes constant vigilance.? We have made some adjustments internally now to take the information that we get, push it forward, where we have teams on the ground which were authorities and airlines, where we don’t have specific teams, we’re looking to expand our teams as well.? This is not a ‘business-as-usual’ response, no one will be satisfied."McCaul: "But my point is that there are still many airports vulnerable to the same technique deployed by this terrorist…"Chairman: "The Gentleman’s time has expired…"
01.27.2010	"The proposal to cancel the Constellation program has much broader implications than the planned return to the moon. Eliminating this vision for America’s manned space program will put us even further behind in our plans to replace the Space Shuttle at a time when other nations are already challenging our preeminence in space."Killing the Constellation program now would waste the billions of dollars we have already invested and leave American astronauts dependent on the Russian space program form transportation to and from the International Space Station. Since NASA was created in 1958, every President has understood the contributions our manned space program has made to technological advances that have changed our world. Congress must act to ensure that NASA has the proper vision and resources it needs to carry out its mission and maintain American leadership in manned space exploration."
01.19.2010	"Today's vote in the most liberal state in the union should send a message to Democrats that the majority of Americans do not buy into their healthcare plan. I congratulate Senator-elect Brown, and I re-extend the offer for Republican ideas to be included in the healthcare debate. We can reform our healthcare system without a government takeover, and without unnecessarily taxing small businesses, killing jobs and adding another trillion dollars to our nation's debt."
01.15.2010	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Bob Goodlatte, chair of the Republican High Tech Working Group and co-chair of the Congressional Internet Caucus, and Congressman Michael McCaul, co-chair of the House Cyber Security Caucus and co-chair of the Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th Presidency, issued the following statement in support of Google’s announcement that it is considering terminating its business in China."We support Google’s announcement to consider terminating its business in China. China’s stranglehold on its citizens must stop. Suppressing freedom and persecuting those with diverse points of view are losing battles. Google’s threat to withdraw from China will not be the last challenge to China’s failed, restrictive policies. If China continues to so mistreat its citizens, it will face ever-growing resistance from the global community, and more importantly, from its own people who will continue to yearn for freedom. Further, while the breach of Google is high profile, this incident is the latest in the ever increasing number of cyber attacks against American companies and government agencies that threaten our flow of commerce and our national security. It demonstrates one of the difficulties of cyber warfare – pinpointing who is responsible for the attack – and it further shows that we must work to increase our cyber security in both the public and private sectors."
01.13.2010	"It’s clear that this is a failure of the intelligence community to act upon specific information collected. Had they acted, I feel very confident that Abdulmutallab wouldn’t have been able to get on the plane in the first place because he wouldn’t have had a visa to get into the United States. That’s the fundamental error in this case. The fact that the State Department didn’t revoke his visa is inexcusable and I think that people need to be held accountable for this serious error. My biggest concern in the next couple of weeks is the fact that they have identified a vulnerability, they know we have a weakness and they will continue to exploit it on future flights. We don’t know how many more individuals are still out there that were trained by this radical cleric in Yemen and may be still trying to pull off the same stunt."
01.07.2010	"We need to be more proactive and not reactive. The fact that the State Department issued a cable stating Abdulmutallab had been in contact with extremists in Yemen and did not act upon it by revoking his visa was an absolute failure. I am encouraged to see that the President has now directed the State Department to review its processes for issuing and revoking visas. Revoking Abdulamutallab’s visa and placing him on the no fly list would have prevented him from carrying out his attack. 300 people bound for Detroit are alive today by sheer luck. The threat’s still out there. We need to take it seriously and call it what it is, not sweep it under the rug. Good intelligence is the first line of defense in this war and in this case we failed. I look forward to working with the President and the administration to ensure the American people are better protected in the future."# # #
01.05.2010	"We are dealing with a lack of information sharing on two fronts: within our intelligence community, and between the administration and Congress. It is unacceptable that our intelligence community had information that would have allowed us to disrupt the Christmas Day attack before it materialized, but failed to act on it. If this resulted from a procedural flaw we must correct it. If it is human error we must hold the appropriate individuals accountable. Unfortunately, the President has now shown a trend of withholding information from members of Congress who have oversight authority, and whose role it is to implement policy changes and secure resources. I commend the President for his commitment to our security and look forward to him working more closely with Congress to address this problem." # # #
12.22.2009	I commend the President's selection of Howard Schmidt as Cybersecurity Coordinator. Schmidt's experience protecting high profile private sector networks combined with his extensive government and defense background is the right combination to ensure the nation's critical infrastructure is secure. I look forward to working with him and hope this position gives him the authority he needs to coordinate across all of the agencies involved.
12.17.2009	(AUSTIN, TX) - Local lawmakers praised the announcement that the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) has approved funding for the expansion of over ten miles of State Highway 36 in Austin County from Bellville to Sealy from two lanes to four divided lanes.The total cost awarded to the Austin County project is $32 million, made up largely of Federal funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, as well as additional funding secured by Congressman Michael McCaul."This is as much about safety as it is convenience," said Rep. McCaul, who was successful in providing $7.2 million in federal funding for the project. "This will ensure commerce can continue to move efficiently through Austin County and the rest of this important region."The project will be administered by TxDOT and bids will be solicited as early as February 2010. Once complete, State Highway 36 will be widened from near FM 2429 in Bellville to FM 2187 in Sealy.McCaul also cited State Senator Glenn Hegar, State Representative Lois Kolkhorst, and Austin County Judge Carolyn Bilski for their help in securing this long-awaited highway improvement."I'm grateful that we're moving forward on a project of this magnitude for Austin County. I want to commend Lonny Gregorcyk and the TxDOT staff for their diligence in approving this long overdue project. This is going to improve the lives of many Texans for decades to come," State Rep. Lois Kolkhorst said.Austin County’s population grew by 12.7% between 2000 and 2007, and TXDOT has stated that traffic flow increases 2-3% per year on this stretch of highway. The segment being widened is also particularly known for accidents resulting in fatalities, and is crucial as an emergency evacuation route during hurricanes."My great thanks goes out to everyone who has worked so diligently on this project. I commend the Transportation Commission's action and congratulate the people of Sealy and Bellville on this exciting development," State Senator Glenn Hegar said.In 2006 Austin County in partnership with the City of Sealy entered into an agreement with TxDOT to expand Highway 36. "Numerous fatalities between Sealy and Bellville as well continued economic development growth indicated that the increased traffic would continue to present mobility needs," said Austin County Judge Carolyn Bilski. "The evacuation traffic resulting from hurricanes added to this need. Motorists including commuters, tourists, trucks and local residents will all benefit. I know these motorists join me and our Court in thanking Congressman McCaul, Senator Hegar and Representative Kolkhorst in taking this project to the next phase of reality."The expansion will consist of four lanes with a divided highway with full-size outside shoulders.
12.16.2009	Today’s meeting was the first contact with the Army following Monday’s ruling by the GAO that the Army’s process for reviewing bids to build the FMTV was flawed and that the bids should be re-evaluated."The Army told me they will follow the GAO’s recommendations and they will take as much time as necessary to make the right decision. I look forward to discussing this further with Under Secretary Carter and Secretary McHugh."
12.15.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) addressed the Sealy FMTV Task Force Tuesday to briefly discuss the GAO’s ruling and what steps will be taken moving forward. Rep. McCaul, who is in Washington for votes, spoke to the task force in Sealy by phone. The following are excerpts from his remarks:"I want to congratulate everyone on their hard work. The GAO’s report confirmed that the Army’s decision was flawed, as we have said from the very beginning.""The Army has 60 days to respond to this. We’re gonna continue to fight and make sure that this contract remains with BAE. Actually right after this call I’m meeting with Dennis Morris from the Sealy plant.""I’m also setting up another meeting with Dean Popps the Army’s Assistant Secretary for Procurement. I’m also setting up a meeting with Senator Hutchison and Senator Cornyn to meet with Ash Carter, the Department of Defense Undersecretary for Procurement and I will be talking to the Secretary of the Army. Obviously it is top priority to keep these jobs in Texas. We’ve also requested congressional hearings on this matter. We’re gonna hold their feet to the fire to make sure they do the right thing.""This is great news and I wanted to personally talk to ya’ll and thank you for everything you did.""I can’t wait to get out of Washington and visit with some of the employees back there."
12.14.2009	"This is a great day for BAE, its employees and for Texas. The GAO has upheld what we have claimed from the beginning – that the Army’s evaluation was flawed and that Oshkosh’s bid to build the FMTV was not realistic. Through my close working relationship with BAE I have always maintained that the Sealy workforce produces the world’s finest trucks. Based on the GAO’s ruling they should get a fair shot at a new and fair competition. As has been customary, I look forward to assisting BAE in any way the company requests. I want to thank the members of the Texas delegation who worked with me in a bipartisan way to make sure BAE’s appeal was heard."
12.11.2009	“Just in time for the holidays Democrats decided to go on another spending spree borrowing more money on the American taxpayers’ credit card. At a time when we need to tighten our belts, the majority just ballooned the budgets of government agencies by more than 12 percent. The millions of Americans out of work, and those who have jobs but haven’t had a raise in over a year should be insulted by the government getting fatter. Democrats just approved $4 billion on 5,000 pet projects. The national debt is at a record $12 trillion and today they dug the hole deeper. “Much of this spending comes at the expense of legitimate and necessary programs. The bill cuts federal reimbursement to states for housing criminal aliens by $70 million and cuts $304 million from Bio-shield, which is critical to our homeland security.“I urge the President to veto this spending bill if it gets to his desk. Let’s start over and reprioritize how taxpayer money is spent.”
12.01.2009	Statement by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee, on the President’s military orders for Afghanistan:“I applaud the President for his commitment to increasing troop forces in Afghanistan from where Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda attacked the United States. However, any timeline for withdraw of U.S. and NATO military forces should be based on conditions on the ground and not on the Washington political clock. “The Afghan population and tribal leaders must have confidence in the staying power of the United States. Abandoning our commitment only serves to embolden the Taliban and al Qaeda and undermine the overall mission. "Tomorrow I look forward to questioning the Secretary of Defense, Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs during our Foreign Affairs hearing as to whether they believe the troop levels are sufficient for victory and what impact they believe a timeline for withdraw will have on our goal of achieving security and stability in the region.”
11.17.2009	November 17, 2009: for immediate releaseFort Hood Casualties to Receive Combatant Status under new House legislation (WASHINGTON, DC) – Army and civilian personnel who were wounded or killed in the shooting attack on Fort Hood would be granted the same legal status as combatant casualties in Iraq and Afghanistan, if bipartisan legislation introduced today by U.S. Representative John Carter (R-TX31) passes into law. Carter was joined by U.S. Representative Michael McCaul (R-TX10) for a news conference unveiling the bill in the House Radio-TV Gallery in the U.S. Capitol this afternoon. “Our Fort Hood casualties should receive the same benefits and recognition as other combat casualties,” says Carter, who represents the Fort Hood area in the House, “as this was a planned terror attack on U.S. military personnel. It should make no difference in our care for the wounded and the families of the slain whether it occurred on an Army base in Iraq, Afghanistan, or Texas.” While many military and survivor benefits are the same regardless of the status of the casualty, combatant status allows military personnel to receive the Purple Heart, and civilians to receive the equivalent award, the Secretary of Defense Medal of Freedom. Combatant status would also guarantee that the beneficiaries of all military personnel who lost their lives in the attack would receive the maximum life insurance available, extended family housing privileges, and other benefits.“This bill is not about investigations or assigning blame,” says Carter. “It is about taking care of our troops and their families first. That’s why we have such strong support from both sides of the aisle, and why we hope and expect this to move quickly.” Over 30 House Members nearly evenly split between parties joined Carter as original co-sponsors on the legislation. Carter is Co-chairman of the House Army Caucus for the 111th Congress, and is Secretary of the House Republican Conference. Summary: Fort Hood Families Benefits Protection ActCombat Status Codified – military casualties classified as combat zone. Civilian casualties classified as terror attack or contingency operation. Recognition – military casualties eligible for the Purple Heart, civilians for the Secretary of Defense Medal for the Defense of Freedom. Life insurance – guarantees all military beneficiaries receive maximum benefitsCivilian expenses – allows the Secretary to pay certain death expensesMilitary bonuses – eliminates repayment of unused bonuses due to service members inability to fulfill duties as a result of injuries from the attackExpanded recuperation benefitsExpanded survivor housing benefitsTaxes – extends combat casualty state and federal tax benefits
11.13.2009	"It was such an honor to call Roy my friend. He, Ann and Linda and I have spent many wonderful moments together. He will always be remembered as "Mayor Wonderful". He was the best public servant the City of Austin has ever had. We will miss him and his wonderful spirit. We always expected him to be around. I always told him that he was like a father to me to which he would always reply, "I'm too young to be your father". Indeed, he was the youngest 83 year old I've ever seen. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Ann and the family."
11.13.2009	"This is just another example of how this administration views the detainees as criminal defendants rather than enemies of war. That said, having been a federal prosecutor, the Southern District of New York is the best equipped office to prosecute terrorists. However, this also raises security concerns for New York which has consistently been a target of al Qaeda. Khalid Shaikh Mohammed deserves the most severe penalty in this world and the next."
11.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) joined a bipartisan front voting against H.R. 3962, the Democrats’ $1.3 trillion takeover of the American healthcare system. The bill passed the U.S. House by a slim 220-215 margin, with only one Republican voting in favor and 39 bipartisan Democrats opposing. Rep. McCaul co-sponsored and voted for the Republican alternative plan. The following is Rep. McCaul’s floor statement entered into the record before today’s vote: Floor Statement by Congressman Michael McCaul (R–TX 10)In the 72 hours we were allowed, Republicans weeded through thousands of pages of bureaucratic provisions, mandates, programs and spending. Despite its monstrous size, this health care takeover has come down to a few clear, evident points: it raises taxes, raises premiums, increases health care costs, and dumps trillions of dollars of debt on our children and grandchildren. Small businesses and families will bear the weight of this bill for generations.We all agree that health care reform is urgently needed, but this bill destroys the American health care system as opposed to improving it. Instead of incentivizing the private market to offer more affordable health care coverage options, it punishes small businesses and their employees. It threatens jail time for individuals who do not purchase insurance and could soon lead to the rationing of care, depriving Americans of life-saving treatments that are not deemed "cost-effective." Even doctors, the most experienced in this health care debate, oppose this proposal and have shared concerns of the many clinics and hospitals that will be forced to reduce or deny services.The over 2,000 page spending plan imposes nearly $800 billion in new taxes on individuals, families and small businesses. It places mandates on both individuals and employers which, according to the President’s Economic Advisor, will result in the loss of up to 5.5 million jobs. These mandates will also discourage the hiring of low-wage and minority workers. In the face of both a recession and a 10.2% unemployment rate, Speaker Pelosi’s unprecedented tax-and-spend approach will come at the expense of American citizens.Moreover, while the majority of Americans are happy with their health care coverage, an estimated 114 million Americans will lose their insurance under Speaker Pelosi’s plan and be dumped into the government-run option. The plan also cuts more than $170 billion from Medicare Advantage plans, jeopardizing millions of seniors’ existing coverage. The bill puts the government in the middle of Americans’ personal health care decisions, as opposed to reform based on improving the quality and affordability of health care.While Democrats have continually touted the benefits of a public option, they themselves voted against an amendment to require enrollment for Members of Congress. This speaks volumes to the true quality of a government plan, as what I view as adequate coverage for the American public would also be adequate for my family. Furthermore, the bill also abolishes the private health insurance market, forcing all individuals to purchase coverage through a government-controlled Exchange and eliminating choices from the health care system. While this bill takes care of Members of Congress, it eliminates the freedom of choice for the American public.Republicans have introduced numerous bills to provide improvements in the cost and delivery of health care, but we have been denied a seat at the table. Behind closed doors, the Democrats crafted a monstrosity of a bill to take over one sixth of the economy, and then limited floor debate to four or five hours on one of the most sweeping pieces of legislation we have ever seen.The Republican alternative provides a common-sense approach to the main problems in our health care system. It would lower premiums, decrease health care costs, reign in federal spending, and allow for more options, choice, and innovation in the health care system.The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that average premiums under the Republican alternative would be almost $5,000 less than under the Democratic plan in 2016. It would provide incentive grants for states to further lower premiums, and allow businesses to innovate ways to promote health and wellness and curb health care spending. The alternative would also expand high risk pools, prohibit insurance companies from denying individuals with pre-existing conditions, and ensure inter-state purchasing of health insurance. These reforms would drive down the costs of health care to make it more affordable for Americans while also protecting the choice and numerous options that citizens need.I have spoken to many health care professionals in my District as well as held town halls with my constituents, and both have expressed not only their opposition, but their fear, of this government takeover of health care. We are not listening to Americans, and we are missing the opportunity to use insight from the experts in the field to enact meaningful reform. This bill is not what Americans have asked for.# # #
11.06.2009	"Today we learned that the unemployment rate in this country has risen to 10.2%, the highest it has been in more than 25 years. Instead of focusing on policies that would encourage job growth and investment in our economy, the Obama Administration and Democratic leadership continue to push their job killing agenda of reckless spending, the cap and trade energy."
11.06.2009	"My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this horrible shooting. While it appears the suspect may have acted alone, we still need a full investigation into Mr. Hasan’s outside contacts and communications both in the United States and overseas to determine what led to this tragic event.”
10.09.2009	"This is the equivalent to awarding the Heisman in September. There are a lot of decisions the President still has to make that directly impact the peace and security of the United States. I applaud his initial position on Afghanistan and hope that he remains steadfast in defeating al Qaeda and the Taliban."
10.08.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report: “It is unprecedented to attach social policy legislation to a DOD authorization bill. This social agenda has nothing to do with the military. The Democrats’ inclusion of hate crimes language is pure exploitation of our soldiers, marines, sailors and airmen. It is an insult to men and women who risk their lives on the battlefield defending our freedoms and it has no place in a Defense Authorization bill that gives pay raises to our troops, keeps their healthcare costs from rising and makes more resources available for combat. “The hate crimes legislation wrongly inserted in this bill places a higher value on crimes committed against individuals even perceived to be gays or lesbians. As a former prosecutor I am opposed to elevating anyone’s status under the law. “Since I entered Congress I am proud that I have consistently voted to put every available resource into the hands of our military. But I will not vote to allow our troops to be used as pawns to bait Republicans into voting for a key piece of the liberal agenda Democrats otherwise would not have the votes to pass. Mine is one principled Republican vote they didn’t get.” Rep. McCaul tried to have hate crimes language removed from the conference report. He signed a letter (attached) to President Obama saying he would have voted in favor of the bill had the hate crimes language not been included. John Brieden, a veterans’ advocate who has held numerous veterans’ leadership posts, released this statement in support of Rep. McCaul’s vote:“An astute observer has to understand people attach bad things to good bills. On a consistent basis Congressman McCaul has supported the troops and the DOD budget and pay raises and I support his vote today.”The DOD authorization bill passed the House with 281 votes, evidence of the rare partisanship injected into a defense spending bill. Prior to today, 359 votes had been the low water mark for support of a defense authorization bill since 9/11.
09.21.2009	"Success in Afghanistan is at the root of winning the global War on Terror and is the key to America’s long-term national security. General McChrystal’s report makes it clear that it will take more resources to prevent al Qaeda and the Taliban from re-establishing safe havens and continuing to plot against the United States, and that failure to secure Afghanistan will result in the reconstitution of terrorist cells. I support the decisions made by the generals and the commanders on the ground and I urge the President to adopt this strategy."
09.17.2009	"Reports of Iran’s nuclear capabilities should serve as a stern warning to the United States that a shield is necessary to protect our allies and interests abroad. Yet this administration continues to dismantle our defense system in an attempt to gain favorable status with countries that are direct threats to our national security."
09.17.2009	WASHINGTON – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) pressed the head of the U.S. Border Patrol for a more rapid response to security concerns along the U.S.-Mexico border, particularly in Texas. The Department of Homeland Security’s SBInet includes technology for a virtual fence to secure America’s borders. However, the technology will not be online in Texas until at least 2014. Meanwhile, the state’s request for 1,000 National Guard troops to help patrol the border has gone unanswered by the Obama administration."My constituents and the American people want this done and they don’t want to wait five years to see this thing completed," Rep. McCaul told U.S. Border Patrol Chief David Aguilar during a Homeland Security subcommittee hearing Thursday. "If we can’t get this technology done by the year 2014 it seems to me it’s a good idea to get more human resources down there on the border.""Absolutely," Chief Aguilar agreed. "Any kind of capability we can get down to the border as fast as possible is going to help us secure our border."Governor Rick Perry’s request for the National Guard troops, backed by Rep. McCaul, has yet to garner a formal response from DHS."We’re spending a great deal of money up here in Washington and yet we still can’t get this border situation under control," McCaul added. "It seems to me we ought to be investing more technology to get this thing done, more rapidly than 2014."
09.14.2009	"I was briefed by officials from the FBI, DHS, and the intelligence community regarding a plot to attack New York. The individuals are under surveillance and search warrants have been executed. As the Ranking Member on the Homeland Security Intelligence subcommittee my office is working closely with federal agents."
09.10.2009	WASHINGTON – On the eighth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) stood up for the intelligence officers on the front lines of detecting threats against the United States.“As the 9/11 Commission said the only way we will ultimately prevail in this twilight struggle is through good intelligence. We cannot tie the hands of the intelligence community. We cannot threaten them with prosecution. We cannot have a global justice policy that Mirandizes terrorists captured on the battlefield in Afghanistan when the first words we say to them are, ‘you have the right to remain silent’. How in the world will we get good intelligence with that kind of policy?” Rep. McCaul made his remarks during his House floor speech remembering the events of September 11, 2001. McCaul serves as Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee. Prior to his election to Congress he served as Chief of Counter Terrorism and National Security in the U.S. Attorney’s office in Texas, and led the Joint Terrorism Task Force charged with detecting, deterring and preventing terrorist activity.
09.09.2009	“We all agree we need to reform the system to make healthcare more affordable and accessible to every American regardless of income or pre-existing condition. But this is the same government-run product that Americans are rejecting and leading doctors at the Texas Medical Center have told me would destroy one of the best healthcare systems in the world. Any plan that imposes mandates, kills jobs and jeopardizes quality of care is unacceptable. It was good to hear the President come around to some of our ideas like tax credits to help people buy insurance, risk pooling, and insurance and tort reform, but as even the President said, there are still many details to work out.”
09.08.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) will meet with the Secretary of the Army and other high ranking Department of Defense officials when he returns to Washington this week to discuss the Army’s decision to award a military vehicle contract worth more than $3 billion to a company in Wisconsin. The Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles (FMTV) has been manufactured by BAE Systems in Sealy, TX for the last 17 years. The decision, which appears to have been made using a flawed procurement process, could cost BAE and the city 3,000 jobs."I will not sit idly by and allow jobs to be siphoned from our state,” said Rep. McCaul upon learning BAE’s decision to appeal the Army’s decision. “I will take the lead on the Texas delegation's efforts to ensure BAE Systems' appeal is handled with proper consideration. BAE Systems' employees in Sealy must be given ample opportunity to prove the superiority of their FMTV product that has become a reliable workhorse for our men and women in uniform over the last seventeen years.” Since the Army notified BAE that it was not selected for the new contract August 28, a thorough analysis of the U.S. Army’s decision process was initiated. The results of the initial review reveal strong indications the Army did not properly evaluate the proposals consistent with the criteria it asked for in its Request for Proposal. As a result, and in a rare move for the company, BAE Systems is asking the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to reevaluate the decision. BAE believes a flawed process produced a flawed outcome.“You just don’t produce 56,000 high quality, safe military vehicles and trailers at the most competitive price for 17 years and suddenly lose a contract. Something is wrong with this picture and I intend to find out what,” Rep. McCaul said. “I have a lot of concerns beyond the jobs in jeopardy. Suddenly shifting production of a vehicle that’s so heavily relied upon could result in delays getting these vehicles to our troops. There’s also the cost the Army will incur from a new vendor that has to start its operation from scratch.”Congressman McCaul met with BAE’s Sealy leadership team the day the Army’s decision was announced to assure them he would take all actions necessary to have the company’s proposal reexamined. Sealy and Austin County lie in the heart of the 10th Congressional District McCaul has represented since 2005.
09.03.2009	HOUSTON – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) warned that the Obama administration is moving too slow implementing a strategy to defend the nation’s critical infrastructure computer networks from cyber attacks. McCaul delivered his remarks at Rice University’s James A. Baker Institute for Public Policy three months after the President announced plans to prioritize cyber defense. Since then, however, the White House has taken little action to secure our networks, and its interim cybersecurity coordinator has resigned.“This threat’s not going away,” said Rep. McCaul, referring to the July 4th weekend denial of service attack against several federal agencies. “When you see these attacks more malicious in nature designed to do harm, that’s very concerning. I don’t think we have the luxury of a lot of time and I urge the administration to start moving forward with a plan.”Congressmen McCaul and Jim Langevin (D-RI) co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President. They presented the report Securing Cyberspace for the 44th Presidency, to President Obama’s administration which detailed recommendations for securing the country’s government networks and critical infrastructure, including telecommunications, energy and water.The President’s plan released in May included most of the CSIS recommendations. Among the highest is to elevate the responsibility of cybersecurity to the Executive Office of the President to create better coordination between DOD, DHS and NSA – the agencies that identify, protect against and respond to cyber intrusions.The July 4th weekend breach that temporarily shut down several federal agencies is widely believed to have originated in North Korea, though the source of the attack has not been confirmed. Rep. McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee, says evidence from the attack indicates it was an attempt to do damage to networks and perhaps test U.S. response in order to lay the groundwork for more serious attacks of networks linked to government agencies or critical infrastructure.Moving forward, McCaul urges the administration to waste no time installing a cybersecurity coordinator who is given adequate authority to coordinate with defense and intelligence agencies, as this is the initial step in enacting a comprehensive cyber defense strategy.
08.31.2009	“Senator Kennedy should be remembered for his commitment to improving the lives of all Americans. His passing represents the end of a remarkable era of service to our nation which may never be duplicated.”
07.30.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) has co-sponsored H.R. 3218, the Improving Health Care for All Americans Act, a common-sense, cost-effective alternative to the Democrats’ proposed government-run system. The Republican alternative preserves patient choice, quality of care and does not impose new taxes. “Americans need access to health care, not new taxes that kill jobs,” said McCaul. “This strikes the right balance of expanding availability of affordable care without jeopardizing patient choice or quality of care, and without penalizing small businesses.” Under the Improving Health Care for All Americans Act: ü KEEP YOUR COVERAGE Americans can keep employer-provided care without changes. Will not tax your employer-sponsored plan to pay for a government-run system. ü CHOICE IN COVERAGE Allows Americans who don’t have employer-sponsored care or those not satisfied with their employer-sponsored plan to buy their own plan on the same tax-advantaged basis their employer enjoys. Americans who pay income taxes get a dollar for dollar reduction in their tax bill up to $2500 for individuals and $5000 per family. Americans who don’t pay income taxes get the same amount from the government to buy a policy of their choice. Reduces the cost and improves the quality of health care while expanding access and portability. ü POOLING OF BUSINESSES OR GROUPS TO LOWER COSTS o Expands insurance pools by allowing churches, alumni associations, trade associations and other civic groups to set up new insurance pools and offer affordable health care packages for their members. Choosing from “group plans” will make health care more affordable and portable while not locking individuals into keeping a job to keep their health coverage. ü PRE-EXISTING AND CHRONIC CONDITIONS COVERED AT AFFORDABLE RATES The sick and those with chronic conditions will be able to buy coverage at competitive rates through high-risk pools and reinsurance mechanisms. Congressman McCaul opposes the Democrats’ plan because it creates a government-run healthcare system that increases taxes on small businesses and individuals, and burdens employers with mandates and payroll tax increases. “In short this bill will kill jobs when the economy can least afford it,” Rep. McCaul said. After consulting with doctors and small businesses across the 10th District Rep. McCaul is convinced the Democrats’ bill will jeopardize quality and availability of care, place the government between patients and their doctors, and do further damage to the economy as employers cut their payroll to provide coverage.
07.24.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the midst of the raging national healthcare debate, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) helped secure $10 million in funding for childhood cancer research in the annual Health and Human Services spending bill. However, it represents only one third of the $30 million needed to fully fund a life-saving program that passed the Congress with overwhelming bipartisan support. “This is a partial victory,” said Rep. McCaul. “But I’m very disappointed that while we’re recklessly spending trillions of dollars we can’t bring full funding to authorized levels for the most precious resource we have in this country – our children – to protect them from cancer.” Congressmen McCaul and Joe Sestak (D-PA), co-chairs of the House Pediatric Oncology Caucus, requested full funding for the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act earlier this year and offered an amendment to the bill when the authorized amount was not provided. Unfortunately, the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, David Obey (D-WI) blocked its passage even though the amendment had broad bipartisan support. Rep. McCaul was a lead cosponsor of the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act when it was passed unanimously by the House last year. “We are spending hundreds of millions of dollars on brand new state of the art buildings for the NIH,” said Rep. McCaul. “It only makes sense to fund the research that’s happening inside.” In the United States in 2007, approximately 10,400 children under age 15 were diagnosed with cancer and about 1,545 children will die from the disease, according to the NIH’s National Cancer Institute. This makes cancer the leading cause of death by disease among U.S. children 1 to 14 years of age.
07.16.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) signed a pledge (photo below) to put the brakes on the Democrats’ efforts to ram landmark health care legislation through the House without proper consideration. The pledge assures constituents of the 10th District he will not vote on the 1,000+ page bill unless he has read it in its entirety and the bill is posted on the Internet for 72 hours so the public can also read it. “This legislation will potentially change our health care system and tax structure for many years to come,” said Congressman McCaul. “I believe, and doctors in my district believe this bill could be very damaging to quality of care and patients’ ability to make their own medical decisions. We owe it to the American people to examine it and read the fine print, and not be forced into rash decisions because of an artificial deadline.” President Obama has set July 31 as a deadline to pass health care legislation. The House version of the Democrats’ bill, released this week, will likely undergo substantial changes during committee proceedings over the next several days, potentially leaving an insufficient amount of time for members to read the revisions and examine their effects. Earlier this year Democrats released the 1,073 page, $787 billion Stimulus Package to members at 11:00pm the night before the vote. The bill, which Rep. McCaul voted against, contained numerous pork barrel projects that didn’t create jobs that members were not able to examine. “At best it was irresponsible,” McCaul said. Congressman McCaul believes that quality of care and patient choice must ultimately be protected in any reform of our health care system. He is committed to working in a bipartisan manner to achieve an alternative health care solution that does not include a government-run system.
06.26.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted against a landmark Democrat bill that promises to increase the cost of energy for every American family and business, and drive jobs out of the country."This is the wrong time for the wrong bill. This bill will kill jobs at a time we can least afford," said Rep. McCaul. "The smart alternative is to invest more in research and development in green technologies which will create jobs, reduce pollution without punishing working families, farmer and ranchers, and small businesses. This bill once again benefits Wall Street at the expense of Main Street. It’s one more failed European model we shouldn’t import."Congressman McCaul supports the Republican alternative energy plan. The American Energy Act increases our domestic energy supply by developing more of our resources, investing in alternative fuels and offering incentives for better efficiency and conservation – without placing a greater burden on our families, our businesses and our economy. Rep. McCaul voted for an amendment to Cap and Trade that creates a Manhattan-type project to study energy independence.The "Cap and Trade" legislation, H.R. 2454, caps the amount of carbon emissions companies can produce. If a company goes over the limit, it must pay a fee in the form of a carbon "credit". Since Cap and Trade will make it more expensive to produce energy, the consumer will also pay more. According to the State Comptroller, Texans will see a $1.15 billion increase in their energy prices, which comes to $1,136 per Texas family per year if this legislation passes. A similar program in Germany increased home energy prices 25%. Emissions reduction was a result of lost economic activity."Even the President admits this will dramatically increase energy costs. I agree. Get ready to pay more," said McCaul, noting that the U.S. Chamber, the National Association of Manufacturers and the Farm Bureau oppose this plan.Companies that are not able to meet the cap are expected to move their manufacturing facilities overseas to countries with fewer regulations. Nationwide, this bill will cost $9.4 trillion in GDP and 2.5 million jobs. Gasoline prices are expected to increase $.77 a gallon as industry passes on the cost increase to consumers.During his 2008 campaign President Obama told the San Francisco Chronicle that manufacturers "would have to retrofit their operations. That will cost money. They will pass that money on to consumers."Texas Impacts of Cap and Trade*Rural Energy Co-ops estimate price increases for customers at 38%*Texas Comptroller expects cost for the average Texas family to increase $1,136*Texas could lose 135,000-277,000 jobs in the first year and up to 400,000 jobs by 2030*Overall, $1.15 billion increase in energy costs for Texans (after subsidies to offset increased costs)*American Petroleum Institute predicts this bill will increase gas prices $0.77 over the next decade.Impact of H.R. 2454 "Cap and Trade" on Texas’ 10th Congressional DistrictGross State Product (In Millions)GSP Loss in 2012 -$276.95Average GSP Loss, 2012-2035 -$551.38Personal Income (In Millions)Personal Income Loss in 2012 -$489.94Average Personal Income Loss, 2012-2035 -$283.76Non-Farm JobsNon-Farm Job Loss in 2012 -3,902Average Non-Farm Job Loss, 2012-2035 -2,859source: Heritage Foundation Analysis
06.25.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – For the third time in one week House Democrats have sent a clear message that they favor continuing the self-serving practice of using taxpayer dollars to fund projects named after sitting members of Congress. Wednesday night, Democrat leadership denied the House a vote on the latest amendment from Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) which would ban the practice. “The question is not whether these projects are worthy of taxpayer dollars,” said Rep. McCaul. “It’s a problem of perception that these projects receive special treatment because of the names they bear. When the American people see this it feeds the belief that members of Congress are arrogant and out of touch with the people we represent.” Rep. McCaul’s efforts to ban “Monuments to Me” have influenced spending habits in Washington. Most recently, Appropriations Chairman David Obey (D-WI) has been criticized by a senior Democrat for banning the spending practice in this year’s appropriations bills. Obey said he would not fund earmarks named for members. McCaul’s amendment goes further. It applies to all sources of funding, not just earmarks. Last year an identical McCaul amendment became law. It banned the practice for all spending in the first quarter of FY’09 and for Veterans and Military Construction spending for all of FY’09. The amendment passed the House with more than 300 votes. The Monument to Me spending practice is tied to projects funded through earmarks. Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor, was among the first members to stop requesting earmarks in early 2008 because the system is too susceptible to waste, fraud and abuse. McCaul will not request earmarks until the system becomes more transparent and each earmark is allowed an up or down vote. Rep. McCaul will continue his efforts to ban Monuments to Me throughout the FY’10 appropriations cycle.
06.10.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) requested a hearing before a Homeland Security subcommittee to examine the wide disparities in federal assistance administered between Hurricanes Ike and Katrina. His request comes as figures from the Federal Emergency Management Agency reveal higher average payments for overall assistance to Katrina victims and an astoundingly higher rate of housing assistance."Right after hurricanes hit as they have in our state we advocate on behalf of our constituents to make sure they get the assistance they need and sometimes we don’t think that comes fast enough," Rep. McCaul told FEMA Administrator W. Craig Fugate during asubcommittee hearing assessing FEMA’s budget.In a letter to Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Rep. McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee, specified interest "in comparing how processes, regulations and procedures at FEMA and other federal programs were different between Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Ike and the extent to which these differences are responsible for the great disparity in the number of individuals served, amounts of assistance paid and the estimated amount of waste, fraud and abuse."As Chairman of the Homeland Security Investigations Committee in 2006, Congressman McCaul oversaw hearings that uncovered more than $1 billion in waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayer money in post-Katrina assistance, and led to changes in the way FEMA grants assistance. Examples of money which was supposed to be spent helping people recover from the hurricanes, but which was misspent, include:• $10.8 million to prisoners who called requesting hurricane assistance from jail,• vacations to Orlando and Hawaii,• Caribbean cruises,• adult entertainment,• people who listed their address as a cemetery,• people who listed their damaged property address as a post office box,• a down payment on a home in Georgia."While some of these changes have no doubt increased efficiency and decreased waste, the disparity suggests a possible overcorrection resulting in lack of assistance and diminished quality of service. It is incumbent upon us to examine this," McCaul’s letter to Chairman Thompson continues.Of particular concern is that only 17% of applicants have received housing assistance after Hurricane Ike, compared to 74% who were granted assistance after Katrina. The average payout for total assistance is $722 post-Ike, compared to $4,860 post-Katrina."Maybe these controls are in place and taxpayers are saving money. Maybe there’s a good story here. But I also would like to know, being from Texas and having my constituents hit by hurricane Ike, I’d also like to get the answer to why such a big disparity."In addition to his request for a hearing, Congressman McCaul has also begun the process of requesting a study on the disparity by the General Accounting Office (GAO).
06.10.2009	Video of McCaul’s floor remarks is available here. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) successfully amended the FY 2010-2011 Foreign Affairs Authorization Bill, requiring the President to develop a comprehensive interagency strategy and implementation plan for U.S. policy toward the crisis in Sudan."Today innocent civilians in Darfur are still suffering from genocide directed by a callous regime determined to hang onto power at any cost," said Rep. McCaul, a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Sudan Caucus, in his remarks on the House floor. "With national elections due this year and reports of deadly conflict within and among various armed groups on the rise, the stakes could not be higher."Five years of genocide in Sudan’s Darfur region has resulted in the murders of more than 300,000 people and the displacement of more than 2.5 million people. Over the past two decades more than 2 million people have died in Southern Sudan due to war and famine.Congressman McCaul’s amendment, which passed unanimously, calls for the President to submit his strategy for dealing with the humanitarian crisis to Congress within 60 days. The plan should also address restoring access for humanitarian aid organizations that were expelled from the country in March. Further, the amendment requires the President’s plan evaluate measures to advance U.S. policy, including the application of multilateral sanctions, consideration of a no-fly zone, other coercive measures, or diplomacy."Implementing this comprehensive strategy will advance respect for democracy, human rights and religious freedom throughout Sudan. It will address internal and regional security while combating Islamic extremism," Rep. McCaul said. "And by advancing regional security and cooperation it will eliminate cross-border support for armed insurgents and it will shut down safe havens for extremists who pose a threat to the national security of the United States and its allies.""I look forward to working with Mr. McCaul as (the amendment) moves through the process," said Rep. Howard Berman (D-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee."The urgency of the situation in Darfur and the whole of Sudan requires that the policy review be released at the earliest possible date," stated the Save Darfur Coalition.
06.04.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) urged consideration of his bill to fully fund border sheriffs after the Obama administration announced a modest shift in funds that falls far short of law enforcement’s needs. In sharp contrast, "Funding is necessary and the current amount, although appreciated, falls short of the true need," said Donald Reay, Executive Director of the Texas Border Sheriff’s Coalition. "Local governmental entities cannot afford to support this partnership without the support of the Federal government in the area of overtime, travel costs, direct operating costs, and equipment. All are critical to the mission of protecting our communities."As Chair of the Subcommittee on Investigations, Congressman McCaul authored the 2006 report H.R. 2047, introduced by Congressman McCaul April 22, would authorize increased funding for Operation Stonegarden to $500 million for each of FY 2010-2014. The current level does not give sheriffs the long-term funding commitment needed to retain qualified officers and replace substandard equipment.A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border, exposing the emergence of the drug cartels and potential for violence. Also, prior to entering Congress, McCaul was Chief of Counter-terrorism at the US Attorney’s Office overseeing the Southwest Border. "I commend the administration for taking action, but our border sheriffs need much more than a minor shift in funding," said Rep. McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee. "My bill gives border sheriffs the resources they’ve been asking for to do their jobs and it has bipartisan support. The border is our last line of defense against drugs, terrorists and weapons of mass destruction entering this country. If we’re serious about national security, the border has to be better funded."Thursday, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano announced a shift in current funding levels within the Operation Stonegarden grant program. 76% of the $60 million program will now go to southern border states with 24% going to states along the northern border. Currently, southern states receive 60% of the total. Texas’ share will increase to $17 million from $13 million.
05.29.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), who co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President, applauded the initial efforts of the Obama administration toward securing America’s vast government and private computer networks from deliberate attacks."This is a good start. It was important for the president to elevate this threat and coordinate the efforts to combat cyber crimes in the White House," said Rep. McCaul. "Too often our defense and intelligence communities have not communicated effectively, and as a result our critical infrastructure has proven vulnerable."While praising the placement of a cybersecurity coordinator in the White House, who will report to the National Security Council and the National Economic Council, Congressman McCaul looks forward to more details of the President’s plan, particularly on how much authority and access to the President this coordinator will have.Rep. McCaul also praised assurances that cybersecurity will not come at the expense of privacy. According to the White House a privacy officer will work with the coordinators and the government will not monitor private-sector networks or Internet traffic.Congressman McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee and whose background is counterterrorism, worked with CSIS for more than one year to produce recommendations to the 44th President. They were made public in December and were incorporated into the President’s cybersecurity strategy."Cyber-warfare is the future of warfare," said Rep. McCaul when the recommendations were first made public. "The computer networks that control our most sensitive information and our critical infrastructure should be guarded with the same vigilance as our airports and borders. Failing to properly secure these systems gives cyber terrorists, criminals and governments of rogue nations, an open door to manipulating our financial markets, power grids and water supply, to stealing classified information, and causing major disruptions to our economy and vital services."Committee hearings led by Reps. McCaul and Jim Langevin (D-RI) revealed massive intrusions into the nation’s federal networks. One series of heists included data dumps equivalent in size to what is stored in the Library of Congress.
05.21.2009	Please see video of Congressman McCaul’s floor speech on this amendment. AUSTIN – Continuing his efforts to prevent wasteful spending of taxpayer money, the U.S. House overwhelming passed (417-2) Congressman Michael McCaul’s (R-TX 10) amendment banning federal funding of future aviation projects named after members of Congress. The amendment is aimed at glaring examples of taxpayer dollars spent on self-serving projects bearing a member’s name on the marquis – bridges to nowhere, Congressman John Murtha’s airport that few people use and a center for public policy among them. “Whether these are wise uses of taxpayer dollars is not the question. The problem is one of perception that these projects receive special treatment. This perception feeds the belief that members of Congress are arrogant and out of touch with the American people we represent,” Rep. McCaul said. Rep. McCaul’s amendment was attached to the Federal Aviation Administration’s funding reauthorization bill, which passed the House Thursday. It is similar to his “No Monument to Me” bill re-introduced in January, and previous efforts that have succeeded to end this self-serving practice. An amendment authored by Congressman McCaul that became law last year prohibited the practice for all government spending through March 2009. It continues to apply to Veterans Affairs and military construction projects for the rest of FY’09. Rep. McCaul’s goal is to ban the practice on all government spending. He plans to introduce similar pieces of legislation later in the appropriations process.
05.20.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As a stipulation for receiving billions of dollars in foreign aid from the United States over the next five years, Pakistan would be required to grant U.S. officials direct access to Pakistani Nationals involved in nuclear proliferation, including Dr. A.Q. Khan. The requirement is stated in an amendment offered by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) during Wednesday’s Foreign Affairs Committee hearing.Dr. Khan, widely regarded as the founder of Pakistan’s nuclear program, has confessed to helping arm Pakistan, Libya, Iran and North Korea with nuclear weapons. Rep. McCaul’s original amendment, which named Dr. Khan and asked Pakistan to monitor his movements, was not accepted by committee Chairman Howard Berman (D-CA).But the amendment did pressure Berman to accept McCaul’s language requiring U.S. direct access to "Pakistani Nationals". The Congressional Record will indicate that "Pakistani Nationals" is a reference to Dr. Khan."If we are going to provide this kind of funding we should at least be entitled to ask Dr. Khan directly questions about the damage and the extent, expanse of his proliferation," Rep. McCaul asserted during the hearing.The Pakistan Enduring Assistance and Cooperation Enhancement Act would triple U.S. economic aid to Pakistan to $1.5 billion a year until 2013, help stabilize its civilian government, support national and provincial institutions and strengthen Pakistan's education and judicial systems. It also authorizes military aid to bolster the capability of Pakistan's military forces battling terrorist groups. The bill now moves to the full House for approval.Congressman McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee, traveled to Pakistan last year to meet with then-President Pervez Musharraf. He toured its border with Afghanistan a short distance Pakistan’s Tribal Areas which have become safe haven for Taliban and al Qaeda operations.Pakistan’s Tribal Areas are "the biggest threat to our soldiers in Afghanistan and perhaps the biggest threat to our homeland security," Rep. McCaul expressed to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton during a hearing in April, in which Secretary Clinton agreed aid to Pakistan should be conditional.
05.19.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted to ease the burden on Americans facing foreclosure by making it easier for them to refinance their loans before they go into default.Unlike a similar House bill that Congressman McCaul voted against in March, S.896, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009, excludes the practice known as "cramdown", which would have allowed judges to lower the total amount of a loan, the payments and the interest that a borrower must pay a creditor. This provision would raise interest rates and limit the availability of credit."For the millions of Americans who face losing their homes to no fault of their own, this is a life preserver," said Rep. McCaul. "This legislation strikes the right balance of keeping families in their homes, while ensuring homeowners can fulfill their entire financial obligation."S.896 also permanently increases to $250,000 the amount of money in individual savings accounts insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Congress voted earlier this year to increase the insured limit to $250,000, but only for FY’09.The bill also requires an audit of the Federal Reserve, which would give the public clear insight as to how taxpayer dollars – especially those authorized in the Wall Street bailout – are spent. Congressman McCaul is a co-sponsor of H.R. 1207, which also calls for a Federal Reserve audit.
05.19.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) and fellow Republican members of the House Homeland Security Committee pushed through a binding resolution Tuesday originally opposed by Democrats. It forces the Department of Homeland Security to turn over to Congress all materials used in producing the controversial report, "Rightwing Extremism: Current Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in Radicalization and Recruitment"."It’s important for us to find out how the Department of Homeland Security drew conclusions that, returning veterans who risk their lives fighting terrorists would succumb to recruitment by terrorists." said Rep. McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee. "That assertion is outrageous and an insult to the men and women who defend this nation."Under H.Res. 404, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has 14 days to provide copies of documents related to the report, including:all of the materials used in drafting the assessment written material indicating when the assessment began a written description of the clearance processes before and after those processes were changed by DHS a schedule of DHS Intelligence employee training for privacy and civil liberties any written information on the internal controls for intelligence assessments at the department since the processes have been changed.The DHS report caused a public uproar over the ideologically-based and overly-general manner in which DHS characterizes "Rightwing Extremists." The report specifically mentions issues such as "opposition to gun control efforts," "criticism of free trade agreements," "perceived government infringement on civil liberties," "abortion," and "same-sex marriage".After the release of the report, Secretary Janet Napolitano testified before the Homeland Security Committee that "the wheels came off the wagon because the vetting process was not followed."The resolution seeks to find out what information was considered in producing the report and what approval process it was subjected to before it was sent to local law enforcement across the country. It still must pass the full House before it takes effect.
05.06.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) has signed on as an original sponsor of H.Res. 404, giving Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano 14 days to provide copies of documents related to the DHS Intelligence Assessment, "Rightwing Extremism: Current Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in Radicalization and Recruitment"."This report politicizes one of our most important national security tools," said Rep. McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee. "The assessment that returning veterans who are risking their lives fighting terrorists would somehow be recruited as terrorists is absurd."The Resolution seeks to find out what information was considered in producing the report and what approval process it was subjected to before it was sent to local law enforcement across the country. It was introduced by Rep. Peter King (R-NY), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee, after repeated requests for bipartisan oversight hearings were ignored. The report, released last month, warns that veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan may be susceptible to recruitment by Rightwing Extremist groups.
04.29.2009	Congressman McCaul Votes Against Democrats’ Budget AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) took another stand for taxpayers voting against the Democrats nearly $4 trillion FY’10 budget. The partisan spending plan, which is a compromise between House and Senate versions, passed the House without the support of a single Republican and without unanimous Democratic support."Democrats are the majority and they clearly used their numbers to ram through a partisan budget with record spending and borrowing and record debt," said Rep. McCaul. "The only way to pay for it all is to raise taxes on every American, and that’s exactly what this President and the Democrats are going to do."Congressman McCaul has long supported the Republican alternative budget which incentivizes job creation and private investment in America’s financial markets by cutting taxes. Statement by Congressman McCaul on his vote against H.R. 1913:"Most states, including Texas already have a hate crimes statute. The law in Texas, enacted after the dragging death of James Byrd, Jr., has proven to be effective. The bill I voted against represents yet another case of the federal government encroaching on powers constitutionally given to the states. Further, as a former federal prosecutor, I believe all violent crimes should be prosecuted vigorously, regardless of the motivation for that crime. This bill clearly undermines the concept of equal justice under the law." Statement by Congressman McCaul after attending a briefing on the Swine Flu with the Secretaries of DHS, HHS and the head of the CDC:"There is great cause for concern but not panic. One death is one too many, and that it occurred in a Houston hospital hits close to home for our district. I am encouraged that we are prepared to contain this disease with the 50 million doses of Tamiflu and that a vaccine is being developed. I want to reassure the public that this situation is being monitored as closely as possible at all levels of government and appropriate and timely action is being taken. The rapid response is based on plans we developed on the Homeland Security Committee to prepare for pandemics and biological terror attacks."Updates on the Swine Flu are available at https://mccaul.house.gov and atwww.cdc.gov/swineflu
04.24.2009	Washington, D.C. —Today, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Committee, joined U.S. Rep. Peter T. King (R-NY), Ranking Member of the Committee on Homeland Security, and Committee Republicans sending a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano requesting the Administration release information on how it plans to transfer, prosecute, and possibly release Guantanamo detainees. In February, Rep. McCaul joined Rep. King on the first House delegation trip to the Guantanamo Bay detention facility since the President’s decision to close the facility within a year.According to the letter sent to Holder and Napolitano, multiple sources within the Federal government have claimed that the decision has already been made to transfer High Value Detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States. In addition, on March 26, 2009 Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair stated that detainees deemed "non-threatening" could be released into the United States and possibly given monetary support from the U.S. government.
04.23.2009	Austin – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) hosted dozens of public and private organizations, including technology companies Sematech and HP, to put Smart Grid technology at the forefront of policy agenda Wednesday. The Congressional High Tech Caucus dedicated its first event of 2009 to spreading awareness of Smart Grid to policymakers in order to create a more positive environment for the technology’s growth."Ultimately this will benefit every person in this country by more efficiently managing our energy consumption," said Rep. McCaul, founder of the High Tech Caucus. "Smart Grid is a win-win for the environment, the economy and national security because it gives us greater control over our energy supply and distribution. Blackouts and disruptions in service are less likely."Smart grid technology will revolutionize the way energy is delivered. It increases efficiency, reliability and consumer choice. It is a vital tool for Homeland Security because of its ability to isolate problem areas from the rest of the grid. This allows energy providers to better handle man-made or natural disasters that affect energy grids.Smart Grids are seen as the future of energy management and conservation in the United States. The City of Austin, TX, in Rep. McCaul’s district, is among the nation’s leaders. Austin Energy launched its Smart Grid in 2003, when it replaced 1/3 of its manual meters with smart meters that communicate via a wireless network. It currently manages 200,000 devices real time (smart meters, smart thermostats, and sensors across its service area) and expects to be supporting half a million devices by the end of this year.Available funding for smart grid projects is on the rise. The recent Economic Stimulus bill provided $3.4 billion in smart-grid technology grants and $615 million for smart-grid demonstration projects through the DOE.The goal of the Congressional High Tech Caucus is to build consensus on technology issues in the House and work across the aisle for the good of the industry.
04.22.2009	House Passes Congressman McCaul’s Green Energy Education Act AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul’s (R-TX 10) "Green Energy Education Act" passed the U.S. House by a 411-6 vote Wednesday.The Green Energy Education Act will "help develop the next generation of engineers and architects to produce buildings incorporating the latest in energy efficient technologies," said Rep. McCaul, speaking before the vote on the House floor. Please click here to view the speech in its entirety.The return is both financial and environmental. The increased costs of green building design pays for itself and reduces long term costs by reducing energy consumption. Additionally, the green construction creates more conducive working and learning environments with better lighting, ventilation and temperature controls. The result is decreased illness, absences and higher productivity.The Green Energy Education Act will:Authorize the DOE Office of Science and Applied Energy Technology Programs to contribute funds to the National Science Foundation’s (NSF) successful Integrative Graduate Education and Research Traineeship program. Authorize DOE high performance building technology programs to contribute to NSF’s curriculum development activities with the goal of improving the ability of engineers and architects to design and construct more efficient and durable buildings. Encourage cooperation between research agencies to avoid the unnecessary and wasteful duplication of programs.Experience has shown that having energy efficiency as a design goal at the start of a project can drastically reduce the cost of meeting energy efficiency targets, and can often do so while enhancing or only minimally impacting aesthetic values.Congressman McCaul serves on the House Committee on Science and Technology. A similar bill passed the House unanimously in the 110th Congress, but the Senate did not vote on it.
04.20.2009	Video of McCaul’s border tour is availableEL PASO, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) announced the introduction of two bills, designed to give federal agents and county law enforcement the proper tools to secure our border with Mexico, combat violence from drug cartels and better enforce existing immigration laws.Rep. McCaul, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee, made the announcement after briefings with DHS, ICE, ATF, the U.S. Marshal Service and the U.S. Border Patrol.One bill would authorize increased funding to $500 million for each of FY 2010-2014 to carry out Operation Stonegarden (OPSG), which is funded at $60 million for FY’09. The grant program provides funding to county level governments along the border (both northern and southern) to prevent, protect against, and respond to border security threats. The current funding does not give sheriffs the long-term funding commitment needed to retain qualified officers and replace outdated, substandard equipment to adequately protect their communities from cartel-related crimes."We have a war raging along our southern border," said Rep. McCaul. "It’s time that Congress recognizes the severity of the crime in our own communities related to drug trafficking and illegal crossings, and gives the men and women charged with defending their communities the tools they've been asking for to do their jobs."The second bill doubles funding to the Office of Detention and Removal under ICE to $5 billion in FY2010. It would allow ICE to double its staff to better secure the border and free up other agencies to focus on their responsibilities.It would also enable ICE to add to its Detention and Removal office, which detains and deports criminal aliens, and expand its 287(g) program. This program allows local law enforcement agencies voluntary training so they may detain illegal aliens and start the deportation process. Harris County, Carrolton and Farmer's Branch are the only places in Texas currently participating."Right now we can’t enforce our own laws. Even when a criminal alien is slated for deportation ICE doesn’t have the resources to follow through," is what Rep. McCaul has discovered through several briefings throughout his district and hearings in Washington.Rep. McCaul was joined by Don Reay, Executive Director of the Texas Border Sheriffs Coalition, and El Paso Co. Sheriff Richard Wiles announcing the legislation.As Chair of the Subcommittee on Investigations, Congressman McCaul authored the 2006 report A Line in the Sand: Confronting the Threat at the Southwest Border <https://www.house.gov/sites/members/tx10_mccaul/pdf/Investigaions-Border-Report.pdf> , exposing the emergence of the drug cartels and potential for violence. Also, prior to entering Congress, McCaul was Chief of Counter-terrorism at the US Attorney’s Office overseeing the Southwest Border.
04.17.2009	Congressman McCaul has signed a letter with his fellow-Republican Ranking Members on the Homeland Security Committee. It requests a hearing on the controversial report released by the Department of Homeland Security, "Rightwing Extremism: Current Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in Radicalization and Recruitment". To view this document, please click here.
04.02.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) stood up for the taxpayers in his district by voting against President Obama’s and Speaker Pelosi’s $3 trillion a year budget. Over the next five years it doubles the national debt. Over the next 10 years, it triples our debt and raises taxes by $1.4 trillion."America is in a recession, and history has proven that we cannot spend, borrow and tax our way to prosperity," said Rep. McCaul. "We cannot pass a budget that will dig a deeper financial hole and impede our country’s long-term progress."Please clickhere to view Congressman McCaul’s speech against the budget on the House floor.Spends $4.8 trillion less than the Democrats’ budget over 10 yearsBrings spending back down to 20.7% of GDP, in line with the historical average, instead of climbing to 24.5% of GDP as proposed in the Obama budgetFreezes non-defense/non-veterans spending, instead of increasing non-defense spending by more than 9% as proposed in the Obama budgetBorrows $3.6 trillion less than the Obama budget over 10 yearsIncreases the Defense budget by $5 billion over the cuts in the Obama budgetIncreases Veterans funding by $540 million over the President’s budgetInstitutes pro-growth tax cuts instead of $1.5 trillion in tax increases on small businesses and families as proposed in the Obama budgetCreates 2.1 million more Jobs than the Democrats’ BudgetSuspends capital gains taxes through 2010 instead of increasing taxes on investmentInstitutes needed entitlement reforms to ensure the long-term solvency of Social Security and Medicare"The President has said that digging our way out of this economic crisis won’t be easy and will take time. While we can agree on the scope of this challenge and the effort it will take to recover, the Republican budget plan will move Americans toward prosperity without spending record amounts of taxpayer dollars and without increasing the tax burden on families and businesses," said Rep. McCaul."Our plan will balance re-instituting the basic principles of limited government and personal responsibility, with meeting our most critical needs. I look forward to a healthy, bipartisan debate."Congressman McCaul voted in favor of the Republican alternative budget, House Continuing Resolution 85, titled The Path to American Prosperity. This blueprint for economic recovery keeps spending and debt under control, keeps taxes low, and still addresses the country’s core needs. A comparison of the Democrat and Republican includes:
03.30.2009	CYPRESS, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) joined Astros legend Craig Biggio in shoveling the first dirt on a lot that will soon be home to an American hero. The pair teamed up to break ground on a new, specially adapted home for Captain Daniel Moran, USMC, his wife and two children. Capt. Moran is recovering from severe injuries and burns over 50% of his body sustained during combat in Iraq."This is a good news story among many bad news stories," said Rep. McCaul. "Thank you, Captain Moran for your service. And thank you to your family for their sacrifice."Captain Moran, who graduated from Westfield High School in Spring ISD, and attended Texas A&M, joined the United States Marines in 2004. During his second tour of duty in Ramadi, Iraq, less than two weeks after sustaining a concussion and ignoring doctors’ orders to avoid combat, Capt. Moran’s platoon was ambushed and 3 members of his platoon were killed instantly.Capt. Moran sustained 3rd degree burns and became comatose. He suffered fractured vertebrate, herniated disks, a minor inhalation injury resulting in Sleep Apnea and a mild Traumatic Brain Injury. Capt. Moran spent 2 1/2 years in the burn unit at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio. He has endured 31 surgeries and is scheduled for his final procedure tomorrow, March 31. Helping a Hero spearheaded the effort.Congressman McCaul is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee. Last year he co-sponsored a bill that provides record funding for Veterans, including two new VA Outpatient Clinics expected to open in Tomball and Katy sometime in 2010.The Bridgeland master-planned community donated the land and Perry Homes will contribute a new 3,300 square foot home that will include high level adaptations for temperature control since Capt. Moran is no longer able to control his own temperature, and an extended porch so he is able to spend time with his children outside without being in direct sunlight. The Houston non-profit group
03.26.2009	AUSTIN – The U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) with the prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award, for his continued support of pro-growth legislation during the last session of Congress."Businesses are the economic engine of this great nation. Especially during a recession our priority should be to help businesses succeed by creating a business-friendly environment with reasonable tax burdens and responsible regulations that won’t stifle job creation," said Rep. McCaul.Eligibility for the award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues, which the Chamber outlines in its yearly publication How They Voted. These designated "key votes" are recorded floor votes on issues that the Chamber establishes as priorities prior to the vote. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award.Congressman McCaul has earned the Spirit of Enterprise Award every year since he was first elected to Congress. Rep. McCaul’s votes against the Wall Street Bailout and his vote to override the President’s veto of the Farm Bill cost him a perfect score this year.The U.S. Chamber is the world’s largest business federation representing more than 3 million businesses of every size, sector, and region.
03.24.2009	"This is a good start and I commend the administration for taking this step, but I believe we need more resources than they are providing. We are still waiting for a response from the administration to Texas’ request for 1,000 National Guard Troops that are needed to secure the border, conduct searches, and provide a necessary show of force to the drug cartels."I am concerned that Secretary Napolitano is transferring personnel at the detriment of interior enforcement. I look forward to the Secretary providing more details about the transfer of personnel so we can better gauge how her plan affects overall immigration enforcement."I believe the violence along the Mexican border is at the tipping point. President Calderon has accurately called this a war and it continues to spill into the United States. It is the role of Congress to provide additional resources to fight this war. I plan to introduce legislation in the coming weeks for a more comprehensive strategy."
03.11.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) urged President Obama to veto the Omnibus bill that gained final passage in the Senate Tuesday night. The $410 billion Omnibus budget is supposed to fund the necessities of federal government for the remainder of FY’09, but it contains more than 8,500 earmarks, totaling $7.7 billion in irresponsible deficit spending."Maybe the Democrats who control this Congress haven’t felt the recession or heard the voices of Americans who are forced to tighten their belts and make sacrifices. But the people of my district have spoken loud and clear," said Rep. McCaul, who voted against the Omnibus bill in the House. "Projects like pig odor waste that are in this bill are the ultimate in pork spending. Especially now, we in Congress owe it to the American people to cut the fat and spend their tax dollars prudently."The bill, H.R. 1105, will grow government spending at more than double the rate of inflation and almost triple the rate of median growth in household incomes. Among the earmarks in the bill:· $1.8 million for swine odor waste research · $21 million to put salmon into a river that has run dry for 70 years · $1 million for red snapper research in Florida. · $100,000 for the Seals as Sentinels program in Maine. · $7.1 million for the recovery of Hawaiian sea turtle populations. · $1.9 million for the Pleasure Beach Water Taxi Service Project in Connecticut. · $950,000 for a National Council of La Raza loan fund for "community development activities." · $1.4 million for grape research · $1.049 million for cricket controlCongressman McCaul requested no earmarks in the Omnibus bill. He stopped requesting earmarks at the beginning of 2008 because the system is susceptible to waste, fraud and abuse. Rep. McCaul called the Democrats’ earmark ‘reform’ initiative, released Wednesday, "a day late and several billion dollars short". While it makes the process more transparent it does not ensure earmarks are granted by merit of the project instead of by a Member’s seniority or position."The system should be 100% transparent as to the sponsor and recipient and subject to an up or down vote in the House. Until that happens, I continue to ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me and not take part in the system."
03.05.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted against a housing and foreclosure bill that will extend help to irresponsible borrowers, but at the same time inject more uncertainty into the economy by contracting the credit market.The bill would allow judges to lower the total amount of the loan, the payments and the interest that a borrower must pay a creditor. This practice, known as a "cramdown", would be allowed on principal residences. It is currently not allowed under Chapter 13 of the bankruptcy code."I opposed H.R. 1106, because the cramdown provisions of this bill will increase lender uncertainty at a time when the markets need certainty and stability, causing credit to tighten even more," said Rep. McCaul. "It rewards irresponsible buyers at the expense of future home buyers who will face higher interest rates and down payment requirements as a result."Congressman McCaul supports the Fairness in Housing Recovery Act. It provides incentives for borrowers and lenders to jointly renegotiate payments and interest rates, supports going after predatory lenders, and protects taxpayers from being responsible for paying off the debts of irresponsible borrowers.
03.05.2009	“I applaud the Austin City Council’s unanimous vote today to move forward with Austin Energy’s proposed solar plant in Webberville. This is a step in the right direction in bringing large scale solar power to Austin and the residents of the 10th Congressional District. As founder of the Green Schools Caucus and the Congressional High Tech Caucus, I am proud to see Austin leading the nation in the development of alternative energy.”
03.04.2009	“Bastrop County has endured a wildfire that has left a significant scar on several tight knit communities. While the northern edge of the affected area is just outside my district, it affects our entire region and I want to assure you that Bastrop County will receive the help from the federal government that it needs for homeowners and businesses to repair and rebuild. I commend Judge McDonald and Governor Perry for acting quickly to start the process to receive federal aid. As a member of the House Homeland Security Committee, which gives me jurisdiction over FEMA, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, I will make sure that the appropriate federal disaster relief is secured.”
02.27.2009	“I support the President’s decision to reduce our troop levels and ultimately end the war in Iraq. It is thanks to the strategy put in place by General Petraeus, the success of our troops, and particularly the surge that will allow the Iraqi people to take the reigns of a sovereign and stable nation that is not a safe haven for terrorists. “While President Obama did not support the surge as a member of Congress, I am pleased that he is listening to our military commanders. I also commend this President for his support of our veterans, and for shifting our military resources toward Afghanistan and Pakistan and focusing on terrorist strongholds.”
02.26.2009	“There is no doubt that this President faces an economic challenge not seen in our country in generations. And I applaud his determination and spirit to get us back on our feet. But his proposed budget for 2010 is a blueprint for irresponsible deficit spending. “While most Americans are tightening their belts, and the President has appropriately warned Congress that some cuts will be necessary, his budget calls for bigger and more expensive federal government. It increases base discretionary spending by $71.7 billion, or 6.7% next year and increases net entitlement spending by $1 trillion over the next decade. That’s in addition to the trillion dollar stimulus package and an omnibus that’s loaded down with $7 billion in earmarks. “Most troubling is that this budget would increase our nation’s debt to $12.7 trillion and raise taxes on families and small businesses to try to make up for the additional spending. This will leave families already struggling to make ends meet with an extra tax burden, and bury our children and grandchildren in enormous debt. “The last thing that families and businesses need is a tax increase. We need to cut taxes to create jobs and encourage private investment in our markets. Every plan has a starting point. We should be willing to listen to ideas. I look forward to a healthy debate in the Congress over how to best prioritize our spending and move forward toward economic recovery.”
02.25.2009	AUSTIN – Two days after touring the terrorist detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) cautioned Secretary of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano, on the potential transfer of terrorist detainees into the United States. “I hope this administration will give careful consideration and show grave caution in dealing with these individuals,” Rep. McCaul urged Secretary Napolitano during her testimony before the Homeland Security Committee on Capitol Hill. “I’m very concerned as a (former) federal prosecutor that some of these people could get into the U.S. and into the court system. Federal rules of evidence would allow them to get released because of relying on intelligence, or on confessions that would not come into evidence.” “As you realize there are some difficult decisions with respect to the detainees,” responded Secretary Napolitano, who is part of a committee that is going through detainee records case by case as part of the procedure to shut down the facility. President Obama signed Executive Orders January 22 requiring the detention center be closed within one year. At issue is where to house the 245 detainees, who are considered enemy combatants of war, are high value targets and the top leadership of al Qaeda and the Taliban. Many of them have direct ties to Osama bin Laden and the 9/11 attacks. In light of the President’s actions, Congressman Michael McCaul has co-sponsored H.R. 630, the Enemy Combatant Detention Review Act, to prevent the relocation of any Guantanamo detainees to the United States. Border ViolenceAlso during today’s hearing, Rep. McCaul asked for the Obama administration’s help to secure the U.S.-Mexico border. “The governor of my state just called today for 1,000 troops to be dispatched to the border. Violence has increased to over 5,000 deaths – more than Iraq and Afghanistan combined,” Rep. McCaul stated. “I hope you will consider… funding on our side for increased border patrol, ICE and sheriffs. They provide a vital role.” Secretary Napolitano acknowledged the governor’s request, responding “Always, there is a balance we must strike. We do not want to militarize the border.”
02.25.2009	AUSTIN – At a time the government, more than ever, needs to watch what it spends, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted against a budget bill filled with billions of dollars of wasteful spending. The $410 billion Omnibus budget bill is supposed to fund the necessities of federal government for the remainder of FY’09, but it includes more than $7 billion in pet projects. “Here we are in the middle of the biggest recession in decades and we’re still throwing billions of dollars at luxury items,” said Rep. McCaul. “The American people are substantially tightening their belts. But the Democrats who wrote this bill don’t think the government needs to do the same.” The bill, H.R. 1105, will grow government spending at more than double the rate of inflation and almost triple the rate of median growth in household incomes. The budget bill contains more than 8,000 earmarks at a cost to taxpayers of $7.7 billion. Among the special projects in the bill: · $1 million to research red snapper in Florida.· $100,000 for the Seals as Sentinels program in Maine.· $7.1 million for the recovery of Hawaiian sea turtle populations.· $1.9 million for the Pleasure Beach Water Taxi Service Project in Connecticut.· $950,000 for a National Council of La Raza loan fund for “community development activities.”· $5.8 million for an Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the Senate at the University of Massachusetts. Congressman McCaul stopped requesting earmarks at the beginning of the last Congress because of the system’s lack of transparency and its susceptibility to waste, fraud and abuse. He also authored the “No Monument to Me” bill, which was signed into law last year, which prohibits naming government-funded military projects after sitting members of Congress. Rep. McCaul has filed a bill to extend the prohibition to all government funded projects.
02.24.2009	“It was a good speech. President Obama is a gifted orator and I applaud his spirit as we face the most serious economic times in decades. I agree that we are a bold nation with big ideas, that we must restore accountability in government, create jobs and reduce our nation’s debt. But there is disagreement on how to get there. The last thing that families and businesses need is a tax increase. We need to cut taxes to create jobs and encourage private investment in our markets. “Our problems are great, but we can overcome them. We should be willing to listen to ideas. I look forward to a healthy debate in the Congress over the best way to move forward toward economic recovery. “Having said that, I completely support his ideas with respect to the war in Afghanistan and the war in the tribal areas of Pakistan. I thought his message was right on that point. He clearly is trying to move us forward as a nation irrespective of parties and we stand ready to work with him.”
02.23.2009	AUSTIN – After touring the terrorist detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Monday, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) reaffirmed his commitment to stopping the Obama administration from closing the center and possibly transferring enemy combatants of war with strong ties to terrorist groups to the United States. “Chilling,” is how Rep. McCaul, who serves as Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Intelligence Subcommittee, described the tour. “These are the worst of the worst. These are high value targets and the top leadership of al Qaeda and the Taliban. Many of them have direct ties to Osama bin Laden and the 9/11 attacks. The thought of sending these terrorists to the United States where they could possibly be released is a great mistake.” Rep. McCaul was part of the first U.S. House delegation to tour Joint Task Force-Guantanamo since President Obama signed three Executive Orders January 22 requiring the center be closed within one year. The orders make it likely that some of the 245 remaining detainees, who have been denied re-entry into their home countries, would be transferred to the United States. Nearly 800 detainees have been transferred to Guantanamo since early 2002 and the substantial majority of them have ultimately been transferred to a third country for continued detention or release. According to the Brookings Institute, of the remaining 245 detainees: · 81 detainees traveled to Afghanistan for jihad. · 130 stayed in al Qaeda, Taliban, or other guest- or safehouses. · 169 detainees took military or terrorist training in Afghanistan. · 84 fought for the Taliban, many of them on the front lines against theNorthern Alliance. · 28 detainees served on Osama Bin Laden’s security detail.· 36 openly admit either membership or significant association with Al Qaeda, the Taliban, or some other armed group the government considers militarily hostile to the U.S. The Pentagon has said at least 61 detainees who were released returned to terrorism. One is now the deputy leader of Al-Qaida's Yemini branch. The President’s orders center around alleged mistreatment of detainees. However, in accordance with the President’s directive, the Pentagon inspected the detention center and found the treatment of detainees to be in accordance with the Geneva Convention. They receive up to seven hours per day outside of their cells for recreational activity, have more than adequate access to healthcare, have accommodations for religious practices, and are not subjected to torture. “I got the impression our military is bending over backwards to accommodate them. Their treatment is arguably better than what’s received in most federal prisons,” said Rep. McCaul, a former federal prosecutor. In light of the President’s actions, Congressman Michael McCaul has co-sponsored H.R. 630, the Enemy Combatant Detention Review Act, to prevent the relocation of any Guantanamo detainees to the United States. "Our objective in the War on Terror has always been to keep terrorists off of U.S. soil and away from our cities and Americans they intend to harm," Rep. McCaul said. "We cannot allow suspected terrorists to be brought into our country and given rights that could lead to their release." Rep. McCaul was Chief of Counter-Terrorism at the U.S. Attorney's office before he entered Congress.
02.13.2009	AUSTIN, TX – In a show of bipartisan opposition, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) joined his Republican House colleagues and seven Democrats voting against the Democrats’ $787 billion spending bill, which surpasses $1 trillion with interest. Despite their efforts, what was billed as an economic stimulus plan, but packed with billions of dollars in wasteful spending, passed the House by a 246-183 vote."We cannot spend our way out of debt," said Rep. McCaul. "Yet thanks to the Democrats we are now going to spend the equivalent of a million dollars a day for the next 3,000 years on a long wish list of items that won’t create jobs.""While I do support some provisions of the bill such as the tax relief and investments in infrastructure, only 17% of the $1 trillion provides new tax relief and less than 10% provides new roads and bridges. The rest is pork. There’s simply not enough stimulus in this bill to give the economy the immediate jolt it needs," said Rep. McCaul. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office projects that long-term, the Democrats’ package will do more harm than good. It says that over 10 years, extra debt will "crowd out" private investment, leading to a lower gross domestic product, which would hurt workers' wages.Calculations from the President’s own economic advisors project that the Republican plan, which institutes long-term, meaningful tax cuts for individuals and small businesses, and will create twice as many jobs for half the cost of the stimulus package. It would create an estimated 490,000 jobs in Texas, compared to only 204,000 in the final bill."At a critical moment in America’s history – when our nation desperately needs strong, principled leadership – Democrat leaders are bent on taking advantage of this crisis and manipulating the fears of American taxpayers to their own ends. Instead of creating jobs, they’re focused on pushing through their own agenda, massive overreaches of government."
02.11.2009	"Our objective in the War on Terror has always been to keep terrorists off of U.S. soil and away from our cities and Americans they intend to harm," said Rep. McCaul. "I will not allow suspected terrorists to be brought into our country and given rights that could lead to their release."
02.11.2009	AUSTIN, TX – To answer the calls of many in the academic and business communities to recruit and develop scientific and engineering talent to work on solving problems of national need, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) has reintroduced the Green Energy Education Act, H.R. 957. It passed unanimously in the House of Representatives last Congress but was not given a vote in the Senate. “The goal of this initiative is to improve the ability of engineers and architects to design and construct buildings with improved energy efficiency, durability, and life-cycle performance and occupant productivity,” said Rep. McCaul. The Act authorizes the Department of Energy to partner with the National Science Foundation in support of multidisciplinary graduate education and curriculum development activities that will advance the Department of Energy’s broad energy technology development mission. This bill will help develop the next generation of engineers and architects to work effectively together to produce buildings incorporating the latest in energy efficient technologies. Today, energy efficient building practices are still at the fringes of the building sector, in part because of a lack of awareness about energy efficient technologies and design practices among building professionals. This bill would encourage energy efficient building practices by permitting the Department of Energy to launch high performance building technology programs to contribute to the National Science Foundation’s ongoing curriculum development activities. Experience has shown that having energy efficiency as a design goal at the start of a project can drastically reduce the cost of meeting energy efficiency targets, and can often do so while enhancing aesthetic values. These programs would encourage instruction of both engineering and architectural considerations simultaneously. Increasing energy independence and decreasing the harmful effects of energy production and use are clearly areas of long-term national need.
02.05.2009	AUSTIN, TX – As the $819 billion economic stimulus bill that passed the House now balloons to more than $900 billion in the Senate, Congressman Michael McCaul reaffirmed his support for the Republican alternative plan. “The Senate is making a bad bill even worse,” said Rep. McCaul, who voted against the original bill. “It’s unfortunate that Democrats continue to ignore pleas from the American people, and even President Obama, to eliminate wasteful spending and accept proposals that will have an immediate stimulating effect on the economy.” Based on indiscriminately cutting taxes of families and businesses, H.R. 470, which Rep. McCaul has co-sponsored, is projected to create 6.2 million American jobs. That is twice the number of jobs as the current stimulus bill, at half the cost. According to formulas from President Obama’s own economic team, the Republican alternative will create an estimated 490,000 jobs in Texas, compared to a projected 204,000 in the current bill. Following is a synopsis of the House Republican Economic Recovery Plan:Immediate Tax Relief for Working Families:Rather than a refundable credit based on payroll taxes, House Republicans propose reducing the lowest individual tax rates from 15% to 10% and from 10% to 5%. As a result every taxpaying-family in America will see an immediate increase in their income with an average benefit of $500 in tax relief from the drop in the 10% bracket and $1,200 for the drop in the 15% bracket. A married couple filing jointly could save up to $3,200 a year in taxes.Help for America’s Small Businesses:Small businesses (those employing less than 500 individuals) employ about half of all Americans, yet they can be subject to tax rates that siphon away one-third or more of their income. House Republicans propose to allow small business to take a tax deduction equal to 20% of their income. This will immediately free up funds for small businesses to retain and hire new employees.No Tax Increases to Pay for Spending:The stimulus proposal pending in Congress includes record levels of government spending that will substantially increase the current deficit. House Republicans are concerned that this level of spending will result in some proposing near-term tax increases on American families. House Republicans are insisting that any stimulus package include a provision precluding any tax increases now or in the future to pay for this new spending. House Republicans believe that any stimulus spending should be paid for by reducing other government spending, not raising taxes.Assistance for the Unemployed:Incredibly, the Federal Government actually imposes income taxes on an individual receiving unemployment benefits. House Republicans propose to make unemployment benefits tax free so that those individuals between jobs can focus on providing for their families. The plan would also extend unemployment benefits from March to December, 2009. Stabilizing Home Values:The real-estate market is paralyzed as potential buyers wait on the sidelines waiting for prices to fall even further. This is becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy. In order to encourage responsible buyers to enter the market and stabilize prices, House Republicans propose a home-buyers credit of $7,500 for those buyers who can make a minimum down-payment of 5%.Congressman McCaul remains hopeful that these common sense proposals, proven to stimulate both short- and long-term economic growth, will be incorporated into the stimulus bill.
01.28.2009	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted against the Democrats’ $825 billion economic stimulus bill that offered too few immediate job creators and socked taxpayers with pork spending that balloons the record deficit by another trillion dollars, saddling future generations with enormous debt. “It’s unfortunate that the Democrats, who control this process, once again took advantage of a dire economic situation,” said Rep. McCaul. “They loaded this emergency bill with spending that has nothing to do with creating jobs. Tax credits for people who don’t pay taxes and sex education might be stimulating for some but they won’t stimulate the economy.” Short on Immediate HelpOnly 2.7% of the bill, or $22 billion, is dedicated to small business tax relief. And while transportation infrastructure has bipartisan support as a job creator, road and highway spending accounts for only $30 billion, or 3% of the bill. And only $7 billion can be spent in the first year when the need for stimulus is the greatest. Pork SpendingIn contrast, among the hundreds of billions of dollars in non-stimulus spending is: · $80 billion for refundable tax-credits directly to individuals, even if they pay no taxes. · $1 billion for the 2010 census· $650 million for digital TV coupons.· $600 million for new cars for the federal government.· $6 billion for colleges/universities – many which have billion dollar endowments.· $50 million in funding for the National Endowment of the Arts.· $44 million for repairs to U.S. Department of Agriculture headquarters.· $200 million for the National Mall.· $800 million to Amtrak· $335 million for Sexually Transmitted Disease education and prevention· $150 million for Smithsonian repairs The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office acknowledges that most of the money in the bill won’t be spent until at least 2011 – long after the recession is predicted to subside. Only $144 billion would be spent on infrastructure spending to create jobs and stimulate the economy in 2009 and 2010. Alternative PlanCongressman McCaul has co-sponsored an alternative bill that creates twice the jobs at half the cost. Economic models from President Obama’s own advisors indicate the Economic Recovery and Middle-Class Tax Relief Act of 2009 (H.R. 470) would create 6.2 million jobs over the next two years. This package would provide an immediate economic jolt, and lay the groundwork for sustained economic growth primarily through changes in the tax code that affect families as well as job providers. The Act includes: A 5% across-the-board income tax cut and a lower rate on Capital Gains to encourage private investment Encourage business growth by allowing businesses to immediately deduct from their taxes the cost of assets they purchase, instead of extending those deductions over several years Increase by 50% the tax deductions on student loans and qualified higher education expenses R&D tax credits Congressman McCaul expressed appreciation that President Obama met with he and other House Republicans to gain support of the bill. However, the few tax cuts contained in the bill, which Rep. McCaul supports and that are proven to create jobs and stimulate the economy, are overshadowed by spending hundreds of billions of dollars to push the Democrats’ agenda. “If you take away the pork spending and leave the job creators, there’s a good chance I would have voted for this bill,” said Rep. McCaul.
01.23.2009	AUSTIN - In light of President Obama's intent to close the terrorist detention center at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Congressman Michael McCaul has co-sponsored H.R. 630, the Enemy Combatant Detention Review Act, to prevent the relocation of any of its detainees to the United States."Our objective in the War on Terror has always been to keep terrorists off of U.S. soil and away from our cities and Americans they intend to harm," said Rep. McCaul. "I will not allow suspected terrorists to be brought into our country and given rights that could lead to their release."A former Guantanamo Bay detainee, Said Ali al-Shihri, who was recently released is now the deputy leader of Al-Qaida's Yemini branch. Rep. McCaul says it is an example of why Guantanamo Bay's detention camp should not have been closed without a better, more specific plan being laid out on how we deal with the current detainees there.The Pentagon has said at least 61 detainees who were released returned to terrorism.Congressman McCaul serves on the House Homeland Security Committee and was Chief of Counter-Terrorism at the U.S. Attorney's office before he entered Congress.
01.22.2009	“It makes no sense to address what to do with the millions of people in this country illegally until we regain control of our borders and stop the flow of illegal crossings and drug smuggling. We need more funding and resources for our border sheriffs who are outmanned against Mexican drug cartels. Drugs and violence continue to spill into American cities and it is still possible that terrorists could use our border with Mexico as a port of entry. Once we have a handle on security, and we do a better job enforcing our current immigration laws, we can move toward reforming our immigration system.”
01.20.2009	“I applaud President Obama’s commitment to changing the tone of politics as usual, restoring optimism and bringing a new sense of hope and spirit for America. He brings a new politic of civility for the nation that goes beyond the old partisan rhetoric and party labels. His message that terrorists will not break our spirit, that citizens have a responsibility to their country and that the faith and determination of individuals, not government, will solve all of our problems, will begin to move America forward.“Today we set aside our political differences. We celebrate the peaceful transition of power that makes America the greatest nation. And we take great pride in celebrating America’s first African-American President. It is our willingness to embrace democracy and blend our differences that give our country strength. May God bless President Obama, his family, and our great nation.”
01.19.2009	AUSTIN, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) applauded the executive order issued by the President Monday that commutes the prison sentences of two former U.S. Border Patrol agents. Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean have served two years of their 11 and 12 year sentences, respectively, for acting in the line of duty to protect the U.S. border in Fabens, TX, in 2005. “Justice has finally been served and I look forward to seeing these men reunited with their families very soon,” said Rep. McCaul. “Texans and countless Americans who stood up for their freedom should feel proud of their tremendous efforts to convince the President to do what our system of justice would not – place the rights of those who defend our borders ahead of the rights of those who threaten us. This is a great morale booster for the Border Patrol. Today they heard from the highest office in the land that the nation that they defend will stand firmly behind them.” Claims found in a Department of Homeland Security report, that Agents Ramos and Compean acted with malicious intent when they confronted a Mexican drug smuggler are to this date unsubstantiated. Rep. McCaul has been at the forefront at the congressional level seeking to free the former agents. Last week he signed his fourth letter to the President urging their pardon or commutation of sentences. He additionally wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Justice demanding that it investigate the case. Congressman McCaul noted that even the U.S. Attorney’s office has acknowledged that the former agents’ punishments are too harsh.
01.08.2009	“I unequivocally support Israel’s right to defend itself as long as Hamas or any other terrorist group threatens its existence. I am deeply saddened by the loss of life on both sides of this conflict and I join people around the world praying that a negotiated settlement will lead to a lasting peace in the region.”
12.21.2008	"True champions overcome adversity to achieve success. And after losing their first two games of the season, the Tigers showed grit and perseverance to fight their way back into contention and bring a second straight football title back to Katy. I am proud of Coach Gary Joseph and his fine players. And I am equally proud that Congressional District 10 can claim yet another state football championship. Go Tigers!"
12.10.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) stood up against pouring more taxpayer dollars into failing private companies by voting against the proposed bailout of the Big Three U.S. Automakers. Despite his stand, the bill passed the U.S. House but still needs Senate approval."Bailing out these auto companies would be throwing good money after bad into failed business models. The companies still haven’t come up with a viable restructuring plan," said Congressman McCaul. "The responsible path is for these companies to file for bankruptcy to begin restructuring. This is the remedy our government provides, not handouts."Instead of a bailout, Congressman McCaul supports a government-backed restructuring plan in which the Federal Government would back the warranties on cars the companies sell. "I don’t think the taxpayers mind extending a helping hand to the American auto industry. But the government doesn’t need to entirely prop up these companies," Rep. McCaul said.Congressman McCaul believes that auto companies can be successful in the United States. He points to Toyota, which has a truck manufacturing plant in San Antonio, and is more competitive than the Big Three in the same market. The San Antonio plant was Toyota’s sixth such facility in the U.S. Toyota has a successful business model that includes competitive, yet reasonable wages, in a right to work state. "Toyota is an example of how you do this right," Rep. McCaul said.Ford, Chrysler and General Motors originally came to Capitol Hill aboard private luxury jets asking for financial help. Only after taking on public criticism did they show any interest in tightening their own belts. While the Democrats’ proposal to give the automakers $14 billion was less than the original request of $25 billion, the companies openly warn that this is only the first installment and that more money will be necessary to keep them afloat. "Where does it end?" asked Rep. McCaul.
12.08.2008	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the United States becomes increasingly vulnerable to cyber attacks, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) unveiled bi-partisan recommendations to President-elect Obama’s administration for securing the country’s government networks and critical infrastructure, including telecommunications, electrical and water. "Cyber-warfare is the future of warfare," said Rep. McCaul, who along with Rep. Jim Langevin (D-RI) co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ (CSIS) Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President."The computer networks that control our most sensitive information and our critical infrastructure should be guarded with the same vigilance as our airports and borders," said Rep. McCaul. "Failing to properly secure these systems gives cyber terrorists, criminals and governments of rogue nations, an open door to manipulating our financial markets, power grids and water supply, to stealing classified information, and causing major disruptions to our economy and vital services. We hope these recommendations will contribute to President Obama’s efforts to secure our nation."Committee hearings led by Reps. McCaul and Langevin revealed massive intrusions into the nation’s federal networks. One series of heists included data dumps equivalent in size to the Library of Congress. One operation discovered a vulnerability in which generators that run our power grids could be blown up by the mere click of a mouse. "Simply put, the United States is under attack in cyberspace and we are losing this war," Rep. McCaul said. The report, "Securing Cyberspace in the 44th Presidency", was released in Washington and includes 25 recommendations. Aggregately, they urge the President to restructure the federal government’s management and oversight of Cyber Security; elevate the responsibility to an Executive Office; create a global alliance to establish guidelines for Cyber Security and intelligence sharing; and figure out how to better and more timely detect a threat, identify the hackers and how to best respond to a security breach including the possible use of military force.One excerpt from the report (page 13) describes the urgency to secure the nation’s critical infrastructure:Exploiting vulnerabilities in cyber infrastructure will be part of any future conflict. If opponents can access a system to steal information, they can also leave something behind that they can trigger in the event of a conflict or crisis. Porous information systems have allowed our opponents to map our vulnerabilities and plan their attacks. Depriving Americans of electricity, communications and financial services may not be enough to provide the margin of victory in a conflict, but it could damage our ability to respond and our will to resist. We should expect that exploiting vulnerabilities in cyber infrastructure will be part of any future conflict.The non-partisan Commission on Cybersecurity for the 44th President is composed of more than 40 renowned cybersecurity experts from across the country. The goal of the Commission is to develop recommendations for a comprehensive strategy to improve cyber security in federal systems and in critical infrastructure. Rep. McCaul’s fellow co-chairs are Congressman Langevin, Scott Charney (Vice President of Trustworthy Computing, Microsoft Corp.), and Lt. Gen. Harry Raduege (USAF-Ret.), Director of the Defense Information Systems Agency; Commander, Joint Task Force - Global Network Operations; and Deputy Commander for Global Network Operations and Defense, U.S. Strategic Command Joint Forces Headquarters – Information Operations.
12.05.2008	(AUSTIN) - Ms. Elaine Chrisman of Cypress was chosen to paint an ornament that would represent the 10th Congressional District on the White House Christmas tree. Each designated artist was invited to the White House to view their ornament on the tree in December. Ms. Chrisman attended the White House reception on December 2nd.A survivor of Hurricane Ike, Ms. Chrisman painted the ornament in her water damaged home with no electricity."When I arrived in Washington it was more than I ever expected. This was a chance in a lifetime for me and my mother. Some may think of this as just a Christmas ornament but I thought it was a chance to see and feel the history, past and present, what American Spirit stands for, what my community stands for. IKE did not stop me and I know it will not stop my fellow Texans from surviving. I cannot thank the Congressman for all he and his staff does for my community," said Ms. Chrisman.First Lady Laura Bush asked each member of Congress to designate one artist from his constituency to decorate an ornament for the White House Christmas tree. In a letter to each member of Congress, Mrs. Bush said "Red, White and Blue will deck the halls of the White House as we highlight America this Holiday Season.""I am so proud to represent Ms. Chrisman. Her American spirit is evident by her perseverance through the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. It is an honor to send Ms. Chrisman to the White House on behalf of the Tenth Congressional District," said Congressman McCaul.Michael McCaul is currently serving his third term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
11.20.2008	
10.31.2008	(San Felipe) Congressman Michael McCaul along with students, parents, teachers and community members celebrated the birthday of the Father of Texas, Stephen F. Austin in San Felipe.Stephen F. Austin located his first Texas colonists in San Felipe in 1823. It was here that the first sparks of freedom flew from the spirits of men, tired of living under an intrusive and burdensome Mexican government. It was in the Austin Colony in 1835 that Texans first established a provisional government, with the intention of writing a declaration of independence soon after."I have always enjoyed studying history and even graduated with a degree in history from Trinity University. Whether it is studying past wars, past presidents, or past ways of thinking, studying the past can answer many questions about human nature.Young people often spend much of their time thinking and planning for the future. But as students, it is important for you to also study the events of the past. It is the people and events of yesterday that have shaped the way we live today," said Congressman McCaul.Beneath this grass of this place rich with history lays the remains of the original town of San Felipe de Austin, which burned down in 1836. Many of the students participated in an archeological dig. Students shared essays written on Texas history and received awards for drawing.
10.21.2008	AUSTIN – With the public school dropout rate continuing to grow, Congressmen Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) and Henry Cuellar (D-TX 28) hosted a bipartisan panel of community leaders to discuss ways to keep children in school and off of a path of self destruction.Reps. McCaul and Cuellar, who both serve on the House Homeland Security Committee and have crossed party lines on numerous occasions to tackle homeland security and border security challenges, brought community leaders together to address an issue that has the potential to destroy our country from within. Nearly one thousand students dropped out of Austin area schools last year alone. Statistically, half fall into a life of crime. "They’re gonna be on the wrong path and the cost to society will be great," Rep. McCaul said.Rep. McCaul has seen the transformation from dropout to criminal from his service as a federal prosecutor before he was elected to Congress. "The names would change," he recalled from cases that filled federal dockets, "but it was the repeated story of a broken family, drop out of school and buy a gun."Panel members included Austin Independent School District Superintendent Pat Forgione; Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo; Suki Steinhauser, CEO of Communities in Schools; Dr. Ramona Trevino, principal of the University of Texas Elementary School, which hosted the event; and Susan Dawson of the E3 Alliance. The discussion was moderated by Manny Flores, CEO of Latin Works.Each of the panel members has experienced success employing various strategies to keep at-risk kids in school. Ideas discussed include:• Impact Team in every school to identify and confront at-risk students • Increased English language emersion• Increased availability of health insurance to reduce health crisis that lead to dropouts• Greater funding for No Child Left BehindOne of the challenges, which today’s panel can help to overcome, is collaboration. "We haven’t learned how to truly share best practices across institutions," said Dawson. Congressman McCaul intends for the discussion to be the first of several regular community dialogs to address and help solve the dropout crisis.
10.16.2008	AUSTIN – Burleson County has been added to the president’s disaster declaration for damage sustained during Hurricane Ike. The declaration means that Burleson County will be entitled to federal reimbursement for certain recovery efforts related to the storm. Specifically, the federal government will help pay for public assistance including food and water expenses and debris removal. It does not apply to individual households."This is great news for Burleson County," said Rep. Michael McCaul, who represents Burleson among eight counties in the 10th Congressional District. "This declaration will ensure that the people of Burleson County are reimbursed for recovery expenses and that the local government will not have to absorb the entire cost."Burleson, which experienced mass power outages for more than a week after Ike moved through, was the county furthest west in the 10th Congressional District to suffer significant hurricane-related damage.Congressman McCaul was among members of the Houston area delegation who worked directly with the Speaker of the House to piece together a hurricane relief package. On September 24, the House passed $22.8 billion in emergency natural disaster relief. A substantial portion of that will help pay for cleaning up and rebuilding communities that were devastated by Ike. It is the first infusion of federal disaster funding related to that storm.Congressman McCaul personally brought Burleson County’s request for assistance to FEMA Administrator David Paulison shortly after the storm. Rep. McCaul toured the ravaged Texas coast by air with Homeland Security Michael Chertoff immediately after the storm and took a follow-up aerial tour over Galveston last week with the Civil Air Patrol.
10.08.2008	TOMBALL – Upon returning from an aerial tour of the Texas-Mexico border, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) renewed his call for increased funding and resources for state and local law enforcement along the border."What spills across our border is a problem for every community in Texas – whether it’s Houston, Dallas or Tomball," said Rep. McCaul. "Drugs and weapons end up too close to our homes and schools, and our border sheriffs and police must be properly equipped."Congressman McCaul’s tour comes during the height of the marijuana harvest season. On Tuesday Webb County authorities seized $157,000 in cash headed back to Mexico that they believe was used to buy hundreds of pounds of Mexican marijuana somewhere in the United States.Border sheriffs say their number one need is a sustained level of funding so they can hire deputies long-term. Authorities are spread thin and cannot effectively plug holes along the border to cut down on the drug trade and illegal crossings."Our country faces many challenges right now. We’re trying to stabilize our economy, bring reforms to our financial markets and pursue energy independence," Rep. McCaul said. "But we can’t lose focus on our border. We can’t let the people who want to come here illegally, and in some cases do harm, think that we’re not paying attention."In June Congressman McCaul authored an amendment in the House Foreign Affairs Committee requiring $1.5 billion over three years to border sheriffs. The amendment had bipartisan support but was not allowed to be voted on.Last month, Congressman McCaul helped pass a funding increase for FY2009 to strengthen border security, immigration enforcement, and disaster preparedness. This includes:• $3.88 billion First responder and state and local grant programs • $9.8 billion Customs and Border Protection • $4.99 billion Immigration and Customs Enforcement.This level of funding will provide for:• Additional 2,200 federal border patrol agents • Detention space for an additional 1,400 illegal immigrants• Additional 1,273 Customs and Border Protection Officers • $775 million for continued construction and improvements to border security infrastructure, including 143 miles of fencing.Congressman McCaul has been at the forefront of efforts to secure the Texas-Mexico border. His 2006 report "A Line in the Sand" detailed advances of the cartels and predicted their increased threat of violence and of smuggling drugs, weapons and even terrorists into the United States.Prior to being elected to Congress, McCaul served as Chief of Counter Terrorism and National Security in the U.S. Attorney’s office in Texas, and led the Joint Terrorism Task Force charged with detecting, deterring and preventing terrorist activity. He will continue to pursue ways to secure the Texas-Mexico border while eradicating the drug cartels.Congressman McCaul toured the border with the Civil Air Patrol. On approach into Tomball he surveyed the Hurricane Ike recovery efforts on Galveston Island so he could see the progress made since he toured with Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff right after the storm passed.Immediately after Ike skipped town, the Civil Air Patrol began air and ground reconnaissance missions to assess the damage. Their photographs and reports went immediately to the State Operations Center in Austin to aide in the deployment of relief to those affected. More than 200 CAP volunteers flew 350 sorties, and took 40,000 photos. They committed 16,841 man hours and 22 CAP aircraft were used.
10.03.2008	AUSTIN – Standing up to pressure to rescue the economy using a risky plan that would balloon the deficit to $11 trillion, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) made the responsible decision to vote against the Senate’s Wall Street bailout bill. "I know the American people want a solution to this economic crisis because of the fear that has been injected into this process. But this is not the right solution," Rep. McCaul said.Congressman McCaul voted against the bill because it provides no reforms to assure the crisis does not happen again. It includes pork projects that have no business in emergency legislation and have increased the price tag to $850 billion. Its supporters cannot provide assurances that the plan will work yet it puts taxpayers on the hook for the irresponsible lending practices of some of the nation’s largest banks."I am outraged that the Congress would approve this and sell it to the American people as a life or death proposition on the economy," said Rep. McCaul. "This is about responsibility and integrity and finding the right solution to perhaps the greatest challenge in a generation. If we make the wrong move out of haste and fear, our economy will suffer far greater losses."Treasury Secretary Paulson had known about this impending economic crisis for one year before he and President Bush decided it was dire enough to drop it on Congress in its final week of the session and weeks before an election. "This issue deserves to be deliberated, not hastily rushed through Congress because Paulson injected fear. We know the American people want Congress to act but pushing through a bill without reform is useless," Rep. McCaul said.Among the great minds opposing this plan is William M. Isaac, chairman of the FDIC from 1981 to 1985. Isaac asserts that the FDIC has the ability and the authority to address the single greatest short-term economic challenge we face: shoring up our credit markets so that banks have enough money to keep making loans, allowing businesses to continue to meet their payrolls and employees to collect a paycheck and provide for their families."In my view, if the FDIC were to declare an emergency and vow to protect all general creditors of failed banks and institute a net worth certificate program, the financial markets will calm down immediately," Isaac wrote today in Forbes.com. "Banks will once again feel comfortable lending to other banks and to customers of banks. They will stop hoarding their liquidity. The Senate bill is an irresponsible raid on taxpayer money," Isaac continued.Reforms NeededCongressman McCaul voted in 2005 to force more oversight onto Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the number of risky loans that they could back. However, the bill died, allowing risky loans to continue to spread through the entire financial system. If reforms had been passed the bailout might not be necessary."I believe the stand we have taken against this bill is the leadership this country needs," Rep. McCaul said. "We need to get back to work immediately to institute the reforms not contained in this bill to address the failed government policies of the 90’s that not only allowed, but encouraged banks to overextend themselves. Without reforms, we’re throwing good money after bad," said Rep. McCaul."It remains incumbent upon each of us elected to serve to put our partisan beliefs aside and work hand in hand to reach a long-term solution that is not convenient, but that upholds our constitution and the principles on which this great nation was founded."Senate Pork and Failed LeadershipAside from failing to address the root causes of our economic crisis, the bill that emerged from the Senate makes a mockery out of our democracy. Those in the Senate who championed the Paulson plan as our only solution took this crisis so seriously they chose to act in the same irresponsible way that Wall Street banks did to get us into this mess. For them it was pure opportunism. They loaded an emergency funding package with self-serving pork projects – including tax cuts subsidies for wooden arrows and Puerto Rican rum– on top of the $700 billion that they blindly gave away. "This is the vary reason that the public has no confidence in their elected leaders," Rep. McCaul said.Standing Up to PaulsonCongressman McCaul was among a small group of 11 House members who stood up to Minority Leader John Boehner to oppose the Bush-Paulson plan from the time it was released. The notion of expecting the Congress to give the Treasury Department carte blanche is foremost a violation of the system of checks and balances on which our country was founded. Congressman McCaul worked to incorporate better oversight and accountability into the plan. As a result, the bill that was initially defeated in the House was much improved but still required taxpayers to fund the bailout. The Senate bill is virtually no different. More than 200 leading economists from across the country agree that Congress can’t be rushed to judgment and should take its time to do this right. They also agree that the bill still forces taxpayers to make a significant sacrifice, with little evidence to suggest that the troubled markets will be settled. "I cannot allow responsible Americans who placed their trust in me to pay for $700 billion in bad debt incurred by private firms," Rep. McCaul said. "You don’t work hard to pay for the mistakes of others, but to provide for your families. I stand by my conservative principles and will continue to push for a free market solution. And I have faith that our country, and our economy, will stand strong and prosper."
09.29.2008	AUSTIN – Standing up for responsible businesses and homeowners, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted against the largest bailout in U.S. history that puts $700 billion of taxpayer money in the hands of the Treasury Secretary to bail out irresponsible lenders on Wall Street. The efforts of Rep. McCaul and a bipartisan front prevented the passage of a flawed plan that would have increased the national debt by $1 trillion, and it produces an opportunity for debate on an economic rescue package that is fair to taxpayers."This is our Constitution at work. This is an opportunity to fix the economy in a responsible way that will ultimately be less of a burden on the American people, and we will continue to work day and night until we reach that solution," Rep. McCaul assured. "Fundamentally I have deep concerns about government intervention into the private sector. We cannot allow responsible taxpayers on Main Street to bail out irresponsible banks on Wall Street. Even with some of the conservative principles drafted into the bill that we hoped would provide greater oversight, I cannot ask the people who have placed their trust in me to cover $700 billion in bad debt incurred by private firms. In a capitalist system people are held responsible for their decisions. They don’t dump bad debt on the public."I believe there is a way to rescue our economy without placing the bulk of the burden on home owners and businesses who struggle to meet their own bottom line," Rep. McCaul added. "Instead, we have rushed into a rescue plan that taxpayers may very well need to be rescued from. If this Congress doesn’t get this right this could result in the largest sub-prime loan ever issued. If we don’t make the necessary reforms to fix the fundamental problems with our economy we are throwing good money after bad. It will be on the backs of the taxpayers and the debt will be passed down to our children. That’s the result we want to avoid." Congressman McCaul has stood up to the Bush-Paulson plan since it was released and has worked to incorporate better oversight and accountability. As a result, the bill that was defeated was much improved. Even so, this legislation is like an insider trade deal that was shoved through Congress outside the deliberative process with the use of scare tactics. More than 200 leading economists from across the country agree that Congress can’t be rushed to judgment and should take its time to do this right. They also agree that the bill still forces taxpayers to make a significant sacrifice, with little evidence to suggest that the troubled markets will be settled.The Bush-Paulson bailout gives control of $700 billion to the U.S. Treasury Secretary to buy failed loans from American banks that have dropped in value and have become stagnant on their books. Buying the bad loans will give the banks the liquidity they need to continue to make loans to responsible customers. The hope is that the government would later sell the properties for a higher price and replenish the taxpayers’ money.However, the plan fails to require Wall Street to invest a financial stake in its own recovery and leaves taxpayers vulnerable to unprecedented financial losses if the government cannot recoup its investment.Quoting William M. Isaac, FDIC Chairman (1981-1985), Rep. McCaul said, "Having financial institutions sell the loans to the government at inflated prices so the government can turn around and sell the loans to well-heeled investors at lower prices strikes me as a very good deal for everyone but the U.S. taxpayers. Surely we can do better." Instead of using taxpayer money for the bailout, Congressman McCaul supports raising the limit on the amount of deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which would prevent runs on our financial institutions, and has co-sponsored an alternative economic rescue package to have Wall Street fund the recovery. • Stabilizing Financial Markets: Require the Treasury Department to guarantee losses up to 100%, resulting from the failure of timely payment and interest from mortgage-backed securities (MBS) originated prior to the date of enactment. Such insurance would provide immediate value to the MBS and a foundation for which they could then be sold. • Risk-Based Premiums: Direct the Treasury Department to assess a premium on outstanding MBS to finance this insurance. Participation in the program would be mandatory for all holders of such MBS in order to guard against adverse selection where only the holders of troubled assets participate. A risk-based premium would be assessed on those with troubled MBS. The premium would expire when the Treasury Secretary determines the fund has sufficient resources to meet any projected losses. Private-Capital Off the Sidelines by Empowering Private Investors • Net Operating Losses: Allow companies to carry-back losses arising in tax years ending in 2007, 2008, or 2009 back 5 years, generating a tax refund and immediate capital. Despite the presence of willing buyers, many firms with MBS are not willing to sell at such a huge loss. Such a carry-back provides a cushion for any such loss, making firms more willing sellers. • Repatriation Infusion: Allow a repatriation window for profits earned by U.S. firms overseas. Such repatriation amounts would be taxed at 0% if invested in distressed debt (as defined by Treasury) for at least one year. • Bank Losses on GSE Stock: Allow banks to treat losses on shares of preferred stock in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as ordinary losses, not as capital losses. • Two-Year Suspension of the Capital Gains: Immediately suspend the capital gains rate from 15% for individuals and 35% for corporations. By encouraging corporations to sell unwanted assets, this provision would unleash funds and materials with which to create jobs and grow the economy. After the two-year suspension, capital gains rates would return to present levels but assets would be indexed permanently for any inflationary gains. Reforming a Failure in Government Institutions • Limit Federal Backing for High Risk Loans: Mandate that GSEs no longer securitize any unsound mortgage that is: (1) not fully documented to meet minimum requirements for work, assets, and income; (2) written to comply with any law or regulation that would otherwise violate a firm’s lending rules.• Schedule the GSEs for Privatization: Transition Fannie and Freddie over a reasonable time period to truly private companies without special government privileges and open them up to real market competition. This reform would 1) establish commonsense limits for their capital requirements and portfolio holdings relative their size, 2) focus their mission on affordable housing only, not profit making, 3) require them to pay an appropriate risk-based amount for the government guarantee they enjoy, 4) subject them to state and local taxes and accurate SEC filings like every other private for-profit corporation, and 5) ultimately provide for the phase out their GSE charters once their conservatorship has ended. • Suspend "Mark to Market" Accounting: Direct the SEC to suspend the mark-to-market regulatory rules until the agency can issue new guidelines that will allow firms to mark these assets to their true economic value. The current rules contribute to a downward spiral as firms have to evaluate their assets not on the basis of their long-term investment but rather on a short-term mania. • Stabilize the Dollar: Repeal the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Employment Act which diverts the Federal Reserve’s attention from long-term price stability to short-term economic growth. In an effort to fuel the economy, this additional mandate has encouraged the Fed to keep rates artificially low, fueling economic boom and busts, and now a strong up-tick in inflation and the decline of the dollar (as investors free dollars for hard assets). This reform would require the Fed to establish a numerical definition for price stability and maintain a policy that promotes it over the long-term. Oversight and Corporate Accountability • Executive Compensation Limits: Require the Treasury to write rules prohibiting excessive compensation or golden parachutes to executives of failed companies at the expense of taxpayers. • Strict Enforcement of Laws Designed to Protect Investors: Task the SEC with reviewing the annual audit reports of entities the federal government has brought under conservatorship or now owns, and determine if those annual audit reports from years 2005 to present accurately reflected the financial health of those businesses. A Work-Out—Not a Bail-Out Sponsors Alternative LegislationUnproven Plan
09.19.2008	September 19, 2008The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500Dear Mr. President:Thank you for personally visiting the Texas Gulf Coast in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. We appreciate the ongoing efforts by the Federal Government to assist Texas residents recover from this catastrophic storm and begin the rebuilding process.From early estimates, the cost of Hurricane Ike could reach tens of billions in damages. Fifty people are confirmed dead, and that number will likely rise. Thousands are homeless and hungry. Many communities remain underwater or are completely inaccessible due to the significant amount of debris. One week after landfall, 1.5 million Texans still lack electricity. Emergency workers are struggling to distribute food and water.In sum, Hurricane Ike is the worst hurricane to hit the Texas Gulf Coast in almost 50 years, and is likely to be the fourth costliest hurricane of all-time. Galveston Island is uninhabitable, much of Bolivar Peninsula was wiped off the map, and the Cities of Orange and Port Arthur remain in ruins.Due to the enormity of the destruction to the Texas Gulf Coast, as a result of Hurricanes Ike and Dolly, and other weather related events, we urge you to support our Texas delegation emergency supplemental appropriations requests. As House and Senate Appropriations Committees meet in the next 48 hours to finalize the Supplemental Appropriations bill and the Continuing Resolution, your vocal support of Texas’ request is critical to ensuring Texans receive much-needed aid.In the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina three years ago, the people of Texas opened their homes to hundreds of thousands of victims. Today, the people of Texas themselves are the victims of another great storm whose name will go down in infamy. The Federal Government must not turn its back on Texas in this time of need.At this time of crisis, the people of Texas deserve our compassion. We hope you agree that Texans deserve the generous support that Congress and the Administration have provided to other hurricane victims in recent years, and we hope you will join us in supporting our emergency supplemental appropriations requests to bring these vital resources to our recovery efforts.Thank you for your attention to this vital request.Sincerely,Members of the Texas Delegation
09.16.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted against a Democratic energy bill that keeps more than 80 percent of America’s oil reserves locked away beneath the earth and unusable. In doing so, Rep. McCaul stood his ground fighting for an "all of the above" energy strategy designed to lower gas prices and produce more American-made energy. The Democratic-proposed legislation will achieve neither. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rammed the bill through the House and denied members the ability to offer amendments. Gas prices have soared 78% under Democratic leadership when they topped out at $4.11 per gallon in July."This bill is an insult to Americans who have been bleeding over high gas prices under a Democrat-controlled Congress. It does nothing to solve our nation’s energy crisis and could make the situation worse," said Congressman McCaul. "This bill signals to the energy markets that we have no intention of utilizing our country’s vast resources that could make us energy independent. That signal by itself could cause prices to rise because the markets know that our domestic supply will be limited for the foreseeable future."The Democrat plan does not allow coastal states to share in the revenue generated from exploration. Without allowing coastal states to share in the revenue, it's a bait-and-switch: Democrats know that states will have no incentive to opt-in if they don't get to participate in the revenues. Democrats are cynically attempting to convince Americans they now support new exploration all the while knowing it will never happen.The Democrat plan is NOT an "all of the above" energy strategy – not even close. Their legislation will contain:• No environmentally responsible exploration on the Arctic coastal plain in Alaska. The Interior Department estimates the 1002 area contains 10.4 billion barrels of oil.• No expansion of emission-free nuclear power. France relies on nuclear for nearly 80 percent of its electricity needs. The United States, only 20 percent.• No development of advanced clean coal and coal-to-liquid technologies and resources. In addition, the "Section 526" prohibition on government contracting for alternative fuels such as coal-to-liquids is not fully repealed.• Fails to make a real leap from carbon to renewables. The Democrat legislation funds investment in renewable energy at the expense of American taxpayers – the American Energy Act increases investment in renewables through revenues derived from exploration for American energy.• No real oil shale exploration. The bill prohibits environmentally responsible exploration of American oil shale resources unless states "opt-in" to such a system; nor does the bill allow local communities to share in the revenues generated from oil shale exploration. The Department of Energy estimates that 2 trillion barrels of oil shale exists within the United States.• No new refineries. No provisions to cut red-tape and increase American refining capacity of American made energy."What the American people keep asking for, and what I will continue to fight for, is meaningful legislation that will allow us to drill for oil to increase our domestic supply and become less dependent on foreign countries that don’t like us," said Congressman McCaul. "What the Democrats have given us is a bill that keeps 80 percent of the oil we need locked away." Congressman McCaul is a sponsor of the American Energy Act, which would increase the production of American-made energy, including renewable energy, in environmentally sound ways. The legislation, which has enough bipartisan support to pass the House if it the Speaker were to allow a vote, would:• Open our deep water ocean resources, which could provide an additional 3 million barrels of oil per day, as well as 76 trillion cubic feet of natural gas; • Open the Arctic coastal plain, which could provide an additional 1 million barrels of oil per day; • Allow development of our nation’s shale oil resources, which could provide an additional 2.5 million barrels of oil per day; and • Increase the supply of gas at the pump by cutting bureaucratic red tape that hinders the construction of new refineries.To improve energy conservation and efficiency, the legislation will:• Provide tax incentives for businesses and families that purchase more fuel efficient vehicles; • Provide a monetary prize for being the first to develop an economically feasible, super-fuel-efficient vehicle (reaching 100 miles-per-gallon); and • Provide tax incentives for businesses and homeowners who improve their energy efficiency.To promote alternative and renewable energy technologies, the legislation will:• Spur the development of alternative fuels through government contracting, the repeal of the "Section 526" prohibition on government purchasing of alternative energy and promotion of coal-to-liquids technology • Establish a renewable energy trust fund using revenues generated by exploration in the deep ocean and on the Arctic coastal plain • Permanently extend the tax credit for alternative energy production, including wind, solar and hydrogen • Eliminate barriers to the expansion of emission-free nuclear power production"Democrats once again show that they would rather play election year politics and extend the burden on Americans, than support a common sense plan that will help every American family and business," Rep. McCaul said. "America needs leadership on this important issue and Democrats refuse to provide it."Polls have indicated that a vast majority of the American people favor a comprehensive energy plan that includes drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, in mountain shale, and in the Alaskan Arctic region, which are currently off limits. These areas contain billions of barrels of oil and trillions of cubic feet of natural gas that would put our country well on the road to energy independence and lower gas prices.American Energy Act
09.16.2008	How Do I Get Information About Red Cross Shelters in My Area?Red Cross hotline: 1-866-438-4636 or 2-1-1 or https://www.houstonredcross.org/The American Red Cross has a "Safe and Well" Website set up for individuals that have been affected by disaster. The website provides a way for individuals to register themselves as "safe and well". From a list of standard messages, individuals can select those they want to communicate to family members, letting them know of their well-being. Also, concerned family and friends can search the list of those who have registered themselves as "safe and well." The results of a successful search will display a loved one’s First Name, Last Name, an "As of Date", and the "safe and well" messages selected. https://disastersafe.redcross.org/How do I get my power back on?Houston Area (including Katy)Centerpoint Energy 713-207-2222 or www.centerpointenergy.comhttps://blogs.chron.com/closings/openings/How can I help?https://www.harriscountycitizencorps.com/https://www.texasresponds.org/Joom/ Reliant Energy 713- 207-7777Gas leaks 713-659-2111Austin area (Austin Energy) 512-322-9100Brenham area 979-337-7400Giddings (Centerpoint/Reliant) 800-299-2055Lee County (Atmos Energy) 979-774-2525Prairie View, City of 936-857-3711Sealy/Wallis (Reliant) 800-299-2055Tomball Utilities 281-290-1400 How Can I Register for FEMA Assistance?What grocery stores, gas stations and restaurants are open in the Houston area?Residents of CD10 who suffered damage from Hurricane Ike may be eligible for federal disaster assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA).Homeowners, renters, businesses of all sizes and nonprofit organizations can register online anytime at https://www.fema.gov/, or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), (TTY 1-800-462-7585). These toll-free telephone numbers will operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week until further notice.Assistance to individuals could include grants to help pay for uninsured temporary housing needs, essential home repairs and/or other serious disaster-related expenses, such as medical and dental expenses or funeral and burial costs.Texans should register with FEMA even if they have insurance. FEMA cannot duplicate insurance payments, but under-insured applicants may receive help after their insurance claims have been settled.Registering with FEMA is required for federal aid, even if the person has registered with another disaster relief organization such as the American Red Cross, local officials or churches. Registrants with FEMA must use the name that appears on their Social Security card. Applicants will be asked to provide:* Social Security number* Address of the damaged home or apartment* Description of the damage* Information about insurance coverage* A current contact telephone number* An address where you can get mail* Bank account and routing numbers if they want direct deposit of any financial assistance.
09.08.2008	HOUSTON – Moments before boarding his flight back to Washington, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) stood with Representative Kevin Brady and delivered a message to Speaker Nancy Pelosi on behalf of Houston’s Republican Congressional delegation: Time to call for a vote on comprehensive American-made energy legislation and stop playing partisan politics."I’m happy to be going back to Washington to do something about this extraordinary burden on the families in my district, and across Texas and America," said Rep. McCaul. "But what’s frustrating is that Speaker Pelosi still has no plans to allow a vote on meaningful legislation that will increase American-made energy and lower gas prices."With Congress in session for only three weeks before breaking again in October, the only votes scheduled in the House are for two bills that would spend millions of tax dollars creating an environmental education program (that already exists in the EPA) and studying a scenic waterway in Vermont. Speaker Pelosi has scheduled no votes on funding the government past the end of this month or dealing with the punishing prices at the pump. While traveling the Tenth district during the five week August recess, constituents made clear to Congressman McCaul that energy was their greatest concern.Rep. McCaul is a sponsor of the American Energy Act. It calls for an "all of the above" strategy to gain energy independence by allowing for drilling in areas that are currently off limits in Alaska and offshore, and by aggressively pursuing development of alternative energy, including nuclear, wind, clean coal, hydro-electric and geothermal. Supporters of the American Energy Act realize that no matter how quickly alternative energy is developed, America will still rely on fossil fuels for decades. Experts believe that simply the legislative commitment to increasing the domestic oil and gas supply will decrease energy prices short-term.
09.06.2008	AUSTIN – On his way back to Washington, following a five week August recess that Speaker Nancy Pelosi called without allowing a vote that would lower gas prices, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) continued to bring attention to the need for America’s energy independence. On Saturday he handed out cards with Speaker Pelosi’s contact information to people across his district and asked them to call her to demand an immediate vote on comprehensive energy legislation when she gavels the House to order Monday."Nancy Pelosi has not budged from her position of no drilling," Congressman McCaul said. "Maybe people in California don’t mind paying through the nose for gas. But families in the 10th District of Texas are fed up and she needs to hear from them.""My message to Pelosi is ‘let us vote’. The message to my constituents is ‘call Nancy’. Congressman McCaul spent the first week of the August recess gathering gas receipts and messages from angry drivers across his district. He took the receipts and messages to Pelosi’s office and read several of them aloud on the House floor in protest of Pelosi’s decision to recess without a vote while drivers paid near-record prices for fuel."When we return to Washington Monday I want Speaker Pelosi to hear the same message that I have heard in the five weeks I’ve been traveling my district: Let us drill and let us drill now. Let us take control of our own energy supply and lower gas prices," Rep. McCaul said. After peaking at $4.14 per gallon in June, gas prices are still up 58% since Democrats took control of Congress in January 2007. Since that time Speaker Pelosi has called for votes on such issues as:• Congratulated the UC-Santa Barbara Soccer Team• National Passport Month• Commended the Houston Dynamo Soccer Team• National Train Day• Great Cats and Rare Canids Act• International Year of Sanitation• Monkey Safety Week But Speaker Pelosi has still not allowed a vote on the American Energy Act, which Congressman McCaul has sponsored. The American Energy Act calls for an "all of the above" strategy gaining energy independence by allowing for drilling in Alaska and offshore, and by aggressively pursuing development of alternative energy, including nuclear, wind, clean coal, hydro-electric and geothermal. Supporters of the American Energy Act realize that no matter how quickly alternative energy is developed, America will still rely on fossil fuels for decades.American Energy ActWhat Democrats have voted forSending a message
08.28.2008	PRAIRIE VIEW, Texas—Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) joins students and faculty at Prairie View A&M University as they accept a $77,000 grant from HP for advancing students access to technology on campus. PVAMU is one of 39 schools nationwide selected as an HP Technology Grant recipient. The grant includes HP wireless equipment and cash award to improve student achievement. HP is awarding 149 two- and four-year colleges and universities, and K-12 public schools in the United States and Puerto Rico more than $7 million in mobile technology, cash and professional development as part of the 2008 HP Technology for Teaching grant program. Each of the HP Technology for Teaching grant recipients will use wireless HP Tablet PCs to enhance learning in engineering, math, science, or computer science."This grant represents an opportunity for advancement in a world that becomes more competitive by the day," said Congressman McCaul (R-TX), who represents PVAMU, in Washington, D.C. "I am excited for the students at Prairie View and I salute HP for its commitment to education. This is a perfect example of how the private sector can enhance the quality of education at an outstanding public institution."Since 2004, HP has contributed a total of $60 million in HP Technology for Teaching grants to more than 1,000 schools in 41 countries worldwide. During the past 20 years, HP has contributed more than $1 billion in cash and equipment to schools, universities, community organizations and other nonprofit organizations around the world."As a member of the Science and Technology Committee, I am proud to see a company such as HP invested in the education of our children, our future and taking proactive steps towards addressing the decline in scientists and mathematicians," stated Congressman McCaul.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
08.20.2008	KATY, TX – Katy Police and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) have combined to deport an illegal immigrant who was previously convicted of a child sex crime in the United States, and who police believed to still be a threat to the community. The removal was a result of an enhanced working relationship between the two law enforcement agencies brokered by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) in April.The illegal immigrant was stopped by Katy Police on suspicion of committing another crime. Upon learning that the suspect was in the U.S. illegally, Katy Police called ICE agents. ICE was able to file a detainer which permits local authorities to hold a suspect for up to 48 hours, until ICE agents were able to take custody and begin the removal process."Too often our police and sheriffs deputies’ hands are tied when it comes to illegal immigration," Congressman McCaul said. "In this case police in Katy were able to remove someone who is not only in this country illegally but who they also viewed as a threat to children. This demonstrates the positive working relationship that has evolved for the benefit of our citizens."Congressman McCaul organized meetings between Katy Police and ICE in an effort to maximize limited federal resources dedicated to enforcing immigration laws. The Houston ICE office has 35 officers working in 53 counties including Harris County, which demands the greatest attention. Smaller communities, including Katy, were virtually ignored because of a lack of ICE personnel and inmate housing capacity.As a result of the compact between the two entities, Katy police now have a direct line of communication to ICE with the understanding that federal authorities will assist in removing an illegal immigrant depending on available resources and the severity of the crime. Katy Police had been aware of the convicted sex offender in the country illegally, but only ICE had the authority to deport him.Congressman McCaul held a similar meeting between ICE and law enforcement from five other counties in his district in Brenham Tuesday. He is scheduled to host a third such meeting, between ICE and authorities in Harris County, in Houston next week.
08.19.2008	BRENHAM, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) helped law enforcement in his district take a step toward being able to deport illegal immigrants who commit other crimes in the United States by enhancing communication between local and federal authorities. He facilitated a meeting between U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and authorities from five counties."Too often our police and sheriffs deputies’ hands are tied when it comes to illegal immigration," Congressman McCaul said. "In some cases there are threats to our communities that need to be removed. Our local law enforcement must have a cohesive relationship with our federal authorities who have proper authority to detain and remove people who are in this country illegally."A previous meeting between ICE and Katy Police in April has already increased the cooperation between the two agencies in the enforcement of immigration laws. Katy Police call ICE if they have arrested, charged and detained a person suspected of committing a crime. If ICE determines that the subject is amenable to removal proceedings and falls within its enforcement priorities, ICE may file a detainer which permits local authorities to hold the suspect for up to 48 hours, until ICE agents are able to take custody and begin the removal process.Congressman McCaul organized meetings between Katy Police and ICE in an effort to maximize limited federal resources dedicated to enforcing immigration laws. The Houston ICE office has 35 officers working in 53 counties including Harris County, which demands the greatest attention. Smaller communities have been virtually ignored because of a lack of ICE personnel and inmate housing capacity.The result of the compact with Katy police has been a direct line of communication to ICE with the understanding that federal authorities will assist in removing an illegal immigrant depending on available resources and the severity of the crime. Congressman McCaul hopes to forge the same relationships throughout the 10th District.Law enforcement from Austin, Burleson, Lee, Waller and Washington counties, and from the cities of Bellville, Brenham, Caldwell, Giddings, Hempstead, Sealy and Waller were invited to Tuesday’s meeting with ICE. It was held at the Washington County Chamber of Commerce in Brenham. Congressman McCaul will facilitate a third meeting between ICE and local law enforcement in Houston next week.
08.19.2008	AUSTIN – Transportation, employment training and healthcare were the top issues emerging from a meeting between Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) and economic leaders in Waller and western Harris Counties. Rep. McCaul met with the Chambers of Commerce and Economic Development Corporations from each of these areas Monday, as well as leaders from Prairie View A&M University."This is where the rubber meets the road in my district," Congressman McCaul said. "This is one of the most productive ways to identify challenges at the local level and begin to work toward solutions in Washington."Most of western Harris County expressed as its number one concern transportation, primarily the needed expansion of the U.S. 290 corridor. Congressman McCaul expressed that he will seek unanimous support from the Texas Congressional delegation for necessary federal funding in the next Congress. He said the use of 290 as a hurricane evacuation route could help draw support for funding.Energy prices continue to be a universal concern for economic and business leaders. Congressman McCaul expressed his frustration at Democrats in Congress adjourning for the August recess without holding a vote on comprehensive energy reform. Rep. McCaul said he will continue to push for a vote on the "American Energy Act". It would combine drilling offshore and in the Arctic region, with incentives for alternative energy, in order to increase domestic production and lower gas prices.Business and economic leaders in the Katy area are struggling with the loss of their Texas Work Source office which closed earlier this month. The state program receives some of its funding from the federal government. Katy’s unemployment rate has dropped, but the need still exists for job training that the office provided.And officials from all areas expressed excitement about two new Veterans Affairs clinics that will eventually open, one each in Katy and Tomball. Both are expected to save valuable time for veterans seeking medical treatment who must presently travel to Houston.
08.07.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) delivered hundreds of gas receipts with messages from frustrated drivers in the 10th District to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office in Washington, D.C. Rep. McCaul collected them at gas stations in Austin, Brenham and Tomball, hoping the messages would help convince Speaker Pelosi to allow comprehensive energy legislation to lower gas prices to come to the floor for a vote."This is the voice of the people. I’m giving them a direct voice back in Washington," Congressman McCaul said at a Capitol press conference holding up a handful of receipts. "When the Speaker of the House turned off the lights, turned off the microphones, the cameras, it was attempting to shut down the debate. But she can’t shut down the will of the American people. This is still the peoples’ house."Congressman McCaul spoke on the House floor in protest of the Speaker’s decision to adjourn for the August recess without voting on legislation to lower gas prices. He read aloud, on the floor and during the press conference, some of the messages his constituents wrote on the backs of receipts."Nancy, please listen to the people. We must work to lower gas prices.""Thanks for doing nothing.""Dear Nancy, please help us with our fuel. (From) the ranchers of Lee County.""I would appreciate your help. This is too high for working people.""Ms. Pelosi you are killing small businesses."Rep. McCaul challenged all Americans to send their receipts to Speaker Pelosi.American-Made EnergyCongressman McCaul has long supported an "all of the above" approach to increasing American-made energy and lowering gas prices. He most recently sponsored the American Energy Act which balances environmentally responsible drilling for oil and natural gas in areas that are currently off limits with the need to develop alternative energy such as wind, solar, hybrid and nuclear.According to the U.S. Department of Energy, such a plan that gives America energy independence long-term would still lower gas prices short-term. Failing to increase domestic supply keeps the U.S. dependent on countries that know they can charge a premium.Relief Denied, DemandedDemocrats shut down the House for the five week recess Friday without allowing a vote on comprehensive energy legislation since their party took control of Congress in January 2007. That month gas sold for $2.33 per gallon. Since this past February, when gas climbed above $3, Democrats had 70 working days in Washington to allow such a vote, but did not.Pelosi and the Democrats have gone to such lengths to avoid a vote on comprehensive energy reform that they failed to pass a single appropriations bill before August for the first time since the 1950’s. An appropriations bill would be open to amendments and would have allowed Republicans to force a vote on a comprehensive energy strategy that Democrats know they would lose.Upon adjournment Friday, Republican leaders signed a letter to Speaker Pelosi demanding that she call an emergency session to vote on bills that would lower gas prices.
08.05.2008	TOMBALL, TX - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX10) will deliver gas receipts and a resounding message from frustrated drivers to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi when he returns to Washington Thursday. He spent the first day of the August recess collecting the receipts, hoping they will help convince Pelosi to finally allow a vote on comprehensive energy legislation to lower gas prices. In Austin, Brenham and Tomball drivers gave Rep. McCaul dozens of receipts, one totaling more than $130. Most agreed with his balanced proposal to increase American-made energy."Nancy Pelosi is the one person standing between Americans and lower gas prices," said Congressman McCaul. "Pelosi and her party control what we vote on in Washington. I hope that my constituents sending messages to her on the back of $100 gas receipts finally makes her realize that $4 gas is too expensive."Congressman McCaul hopes that his grass roots efforts in the district, in conjunction with fellow Republicans remaining at the Capitol during the recess, will persuade Speaker Pelosi to call an emergency session during the recess to vote on this issue. After stops at gas stations in the district Congressman McCaul will return to Washington to join his Republican colleagues and personally deliver the receipts to Speaker Pelosi’s office."My constituents have spoken and I will make sure their voices are heard," Rep. McCaul said.American Made EnergyCongressman McCaul has long supported an "all of the above" approach to increasing American-made energy and lowering gas prices. He most recently sponsored the American Energy Act which balances environmentally responsible drilling for oil and natural gas in areas that are currently off limits with the need to develop alternative energy such as wind, solar, hybrid, nuclear and clean coal.According to the U.S. Department of Energy, such a plan that gives America energy independence long-term would still lower gas prices short-term. Failing to increase domestic supply keeps the U.S. dependent on countries that know they can charge a premium.Relief DeniedDemocrats shut down the House for the five week recess Friday without allowing a vote on comprehensive energy legislation since their party took control of Congress in January 2007. That month gas sold for $2.33 per gallon. Since this past February, when gas climbed above $3, Democrats had 70 working days in Washington to allow such a vote, but did not.Pelosi and the Democrats have gone to such lengths to avoid a vote on comprehensive energy reform that they failed to pass a single appropriations bill before August for the first time since the 1950’s. An appropriations bill would be open to amendments and would have allowed Republicans to force a vote on a comprehensive energy strategy that Democrats know they would lose."What is so frustrating is that we have bipartisan support for a solution that would increase American-made energy and lower gas prices," said Congressman McCaul. "Families are suffering. Businesses are suffering. The vast majority of Americans say they want this done. Yet Nancy Pelosi is still standing in the way."Relief DemandedUpon adjournment Friday, Republican leaders signed a letter to Speaker Pelosi demanding that she call an emergency session to vote on bills that would lower gas prices. Monday, Congressman McCaul discussed energy policy with drivers and echoed that call hoping to mount pressure on Speaker Pelosi from both the Capitol and from the grass roots level.Quick Facts• 80% - the amount of oil the U.S. imports (10 million barrels per day) • 1.127 trillion - total barrels of oil in "off limits" areas (ANWR, OCS) • 91% - number of House Republicans since the early 1990’s that have voted to increase domestic production • 86% - number of House Democrats since the early 1990’s that have voted against increased domestic production• 2030 - in that year the U.S. will still rely on oil for most of its energy needs despite alternative energy development • 2/3 - estimated number of Americans who say they favor increased domestic drilling to lower gas prices • $2.33 - price of a gallon of regular unleaded when Democrats gained control of Congress in January 2007
08.01.2008	AUSTIN – The U.S. House overwhelmingly passed an amendment by Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) that would end the practice of using taxpayers’ money to fund projects named after current Members."The American people are outraged by the waste and abuse they see in Congressional earmarks. One of the most egregious of these practices is Members using taxpayer money to name the projects after themselves," said Congressman McCaul. "My amendment is very simple. It prohibits federal funds from being used for any project named after a sitting Member of Congress."Perhaps the most controversial is Rep. Charles Rangel’s (D-NY) earmark for $1.9 million to help jump-start the "Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Service" at the City College of New York, dubbed the "Monument to Me". It is thought that projects in Congress bearing a sitting Member’s name are more likely to receive government funding regardless of their legitimacy.Congressman McCaul’s legislation would specifically prohibit naming Veterans Affairs or military construction projects after sitting Members. It has been well received by congressional watchdog groups that fight against wasteful spending in Washington and has been endorsed by National Taxpayers Union and Americans for Prosperity."Going back more than 200 years, there's never been a shortage of vanity in Washington, but that doesn't mean that taxpayers should fund it," said Ed Frank, Vice President of Public Affairs for Americans for Prosperity, when the legislation was first filed. "Congressman McCaul's legislation may not make him the most popular guy on Capitol Hill, but it certainly makes him a friend of the taxpayer, which is far more important."The bill containing Congressman McCaul’s amendment still needs Senate or Conference Committee approval before it goes to the President.
07.29.2008	AUSTIN – After years of persistence, fighting alongside the bill’s author, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) watched as President Bush signed into law the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2008, allowing Americans touched by childhood cancer to mark celebrate a victory against a disease that destroys."Most of us are not doctors or researchers in Congress," said Rep. McCaul. "But this new law represents the small role that government can play in the lives of cancer patients and survivors. My hope is that it will ultimately allow our medical professionals to find a cure for a disease that does not discriminate, and in the short-term give hope to those who are afflicted."The Conquer Childhood Cancer Act will:Devote funding to help find a cure for childhood cancer. And it elevates our nation’s prioritization of pediatric cancer.Establish the National Childhood Cancer Research Database to evaluate the incidence of trends of childhood cancers. This is important because it will allow researchers to identify causes of the most common types of childhood cancer, further enabling them to develop and implement prevention and treatment strategies.Provide much-needed outreach and education for families of pediatric cancer patients to make sure they are aware of and have access to appropriate clinical treatment and support services."It’s just an awesome feeling," said Donna Culliver of Brenham. She and her husband Tim lost their four year old son, Adam, to Acute Myelogenous Leukemia in 2003. Rep. McCaul met the Cullivers shortly after their loss while campaigning for Congress for the first time and promised to pursue funding for childhood cancer research. "Five years ago we could have done nothing. But with persistence and the grace of God it’s happened. Any individual, mom or dad can make a difference in this country."Upon entering the House, Congressman McCaul immediately teamed up with Rep. Deborah Pryce (R-OH). The bill is named for her nine year old daughter who lost her battle with neuroblastoma in 1999. He has helped garner support for the bill and was invited to the United Nations to speak on the bill’s behalf before the World Health Organization.Congressman McCaul has experienced his own losses to cancer. The disease took his father at the age of 63. He also lost a childhood friend to leukemia in fourth grade."I believe it is incumbent upon each of us, especially those of us elected to serve, to do our part to rid this world of cancer," said Congressman McCaul, the proud father of five children, "for the sake of my children, yours, and eventually theirs."READ CONGRESSMAN MCCAUL’S FLOOR SPEECH SUPPORTING THE CAROLINE PRYCE WALKER CONQUER CHILDHOOD CANCER ACT OF 2008
07.24.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted against the Democratic proposal to siphon oil from the United States’ Strategic Petroleum Reserve in order to achieve a short-term pre-election reduction in gas prices. The bill, which failed to pass the House, would allow the sale of 10 percent of reserves that are historically used for short-term emergencies."For over a year we have been calling on the Democrats to allow us to vote on real, long-term energy reform to increase American production," said Congressman McCaul. "Instead, they ram through a bill that insults Americans by putting less than a week’s worth of additional oil on the market. Not only will it have little impact on prices, but it will reduce our ability to respond to a short-term supply disruption. That’s like dipping into your emergency savings to pay your rent because you refuse to get a full-time job."Among the reasons that tapping the SPR for this purpose is bad policy:The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is, as its name conveys, a tool of national security policy. The SPR was never intended to be a political, market-tampering, price-adjusting tool. The SPR does not exist so that its oil would be released in order to bring prices down during election years.Increases the Potential Harm of an Oil Supply Shock. The less we have in the SPR, and the more willing we are to use the SPR for non-strategic reasons, the more likely it would be that the U.S. could be harmed by an oil supply shock, and the stronger the signal would be to unscrupulous governments in Iran, Venezuela, Nigeria, and elsewhere that the U.S. is vulnerable.The proposal to deplete the nation’s reserves comes with most of the hurricane season still ahead. Hurricane Dolly, which made landfall at South Padre Island yesterday, spared our offshore rigs. But it is a vivid reminder that our country is only one storm away from suffering a major supply disruption which the SPR is meant to offset. In fact, the last time we dipped into the reserve was in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina devastated production in the Gulf of Mexico.Tapping the reserve would have minimal effect on American families. It would provide an estimated 11 gallons of gasoline per household. If gas prices remain at $4 per gallon the approximate savings to the average family would be $44.Because gas is not in short supply, it is also unclear whether the market would be able to accommodate injecting 20 million more barrels of oil in a short timeframe due to the oil currently in the commercial infrastructure and already purchased for delivery.Polls continue to show that Americans understand we need a long-term solution to increasing our domestic energy supply, not a one-time band-aid. Congressman McCaul continues to support drilling offshore, in mountain shale, and in the Arctic region – areas that are currently off-limits – to reduce our dependence on foreign countries who continue to charge us a premium for the 80% of our oil supply we continue to import.To accomplish this, Congressman McCaul sponsors of the American Energy Act. The bill will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. It is consistent with Rep. McCaul’s "all of the above" approach to becoming energy independent and bringing down gas prices.
07.23.2008	AUSTIN – With gas prices still hovering above four dollars per gallon and no relief in sight, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) took an economically responsible step toward giving Texas families relief by sponsoring the American Energy Act. The bill will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. It is consistent with Rep. McCaul’s "all of the above" approach to becoming energy independent and bringing down gas prices."People in my district and across the country are suffering from an energy crisis that we can clearly get out of," said Congressman McCaul. "This is the way out. This is the only comprehensive solution that will increase our domestic oil and gas supply so that we are no longer at the mercy of buying more expensive oil from other countries. And just as important, it encourages both individuals and companies to use and develop alternative fuels so we can eventually wean ourselves off fossil fuels."Congressman McCaul joined fellow House Republicans on the steps of the Capitol unveiling the American Energy Act, and demanding that the Democratic leadership grant a vote on the package of bills. The Act would increase the supply of American-made energy in environmentally sound ways. The legislation would:Open our deep water ocean resources, which could provide an additional 3 million barrels of oil per day, as well as 76 trillion cubic feet of natural gas;Open the Arctic coastal plain, which could provide an additional 1 million barrels of oil per day;Allow development of our nation’s shale oil resources, which could provide an additional 2.5 million barrels of oil per day; andIncrease the supply of gas at the pump by cutting bureaucratic red tape that hinders the construction of new refineries.To improve energy conservation and efficiency, the legislation will:Provide tax incentives for businesses and families that purchase more fuel efficient vehicles;Provide a monetary prize for being the first to develop an economically feasible, super-fuel-efficient vehicle (reaching 100 miles-per-gallon); andProvide tax incentives for businesses and homeowners who improve their energy efficiency.To promote alternative and renewable energy technologies, the legislation will:Spur the development of alternative fuels through government contracting, the repeal of the "Section 526" prohibition on government purchasing of alternative energy and promotion of coal-to-liquids technologyEstablish a renewable energy trust fund using revenues generated by exploration in the deep ocean and on the Arctic coastal plainPermanently extend the tax credit for alternative energy production, including wind, solar and hydrogenEliminate barriers to the expansion of emission-free nuclear power productionPolls have indicated that a vast majority of the American people favor a comprehensive energy plan that includes drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf, in mountain shale, and in the Alaskan Arctic region, which are currently off limits. Yet Democrats who control congress have denied a vote that would unlock billions of barrels of oil and trillions of cubic feet of natural gas that would put our country well on the road to energy independence and lower gas prices.The price of gas has increased 75% since Democrats took control of Congress 18 months ago. Gas sold for $2.33 per gallon in January 2007. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, gas is significantly eating into Americans’ bank accounts. In 2005, when gas sold for $2.27 per gallon, Americans spent 4.3% of their income on gasoline and motor oil. Using today’s prices, all else equal, Americans are now spending 7.78% of their income to drive.
07.21.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) rolled out the college welcome mat for approximately 100 incoming freshmen getting their start at Prairie View A&M University through its summer ACCESS program. The Academy for Collegiate Excellence and Student Success (ACCESS) is a seven week program designed as a bridge into the college experience for "at-risk" students."You could have done a lot of things with your summer vacation, but the fact that you are here shows your dedication and commitment to your education," Rep. McCaul told the students on their visit to the state capitol in Austin. "I am confident that each one of you will excel in your college career and go on to lead rewarding, successful lives."Congressman McCaul hosted the students for this year’s ACCESS program called "Bridge to College". It includes selecting courses, strengthening basic skills, reinforcing classroom instruction and enhancing overall student academic, personal and career development. The group will also be visiting the LBJ and Clinton Presidential Libraries after having already visited the Bush Presidential Library as part of their tour.Prairie View A&M first introduced its ACCESS program in 1995 with two primary components: an intensive academic boot camp encompassing a tough-love theme, and a holistic, centralized series of student support services. On the first stop on their tour the students heard from a panel with various career backgrounds allowing the students to get an overview of what various professionals have done to achieve their career goalsCongressman McCaul is proud to represent Prairie View A&M University in the 10th Congressional District of Texas. The district stretches over eight counties from Austin to the western edge of Houston.
07.21.2008	AUSTIN – Addressing the sheriffs who defend the Texas-Mexico border from drugs and violent crimes, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) said he would keep fighting for federal funding for manpower and equipment."I understand the struggle that our sheriffs and deputies endure on our border with Mexico. It is our last line of defense against the Mexican drug cartels," Congressman McCaul said. "Some people in Congress still don’t get it. We have a threat on our doorstep and they will do nothing to confront it."Rep. McCaul addressed the Texas Border Sheriff’s Coalition at their annual conference in San Antonio. He thanked them for their brave work and promised to keep fighting for resources needed to secure the border. Congressman McCaul submitted an amendment to secure $1.4 billion over three years for border sheriffs but the amendment was not allowed by Democratic leadership."The Texas Border Sheriff’s Coalition is always grateful for Rep. McCaul’s interest in border security and his leadership," said Executive Director Don Ray. "He’s always had an open ear in understanding the totality of the circumstances. We appreciate him very much."Ray explained that more money is needed for wear and tear of officers and equipment. He said that officers are continuing to work overtime to patrol the streets and that they are wearing out their vehicles at a faster pace. Ray also said that equipment such as bullet proof vests and radios are at a premium."This is an ongoing process. To sustain the pressure on the bad folks we need to have continuous supplies to do that," Ray added.The coalition is made up of 20 border sheriffs. Sixteen of their counties are on the border with Mexico. Four others are within 25 miles of the border and experience the same challenges of fighting crime and need for resources."Our guys are worn out. They’re tired. We need the money to hire people," said Hudspeth County Sheriff Arvin West, who has worked with Rep. McCaul to convince Congress of the growing needs on the Southwest border. "He was the first to the plate for us. First to call us to testify in Washington, D.C. He’s a true soldier in this."
07.17.2008	AUSTIN – One month after a Mexican judge released a man from prison on a technicality, suspected of murdering a U.S. Border Patrol agent, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) demanded to know why the suspect was never extradited to the United States to stand trial."I do think we in the Congress are entitled to some answers and I hope the ball’s not dropped in this case," Rep. McCaul told Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff in a committee hearing Thursday. "Certainly a marker could have been put down for extradition so we wouldn’t be in the situation we’re in today," Rep. McCaul said. "Certainly a criminal complaint could have been filed to at least stop the clock on this guy."Congressman McCaul has now requested a special hearing in the House Homeland Security Committee to ask the Department of Justice why it missed a six month window to request extradition of Jesus Navarro Montes by not filing paperwork in time to prevent his release. Montes, a Mexican national, is suspected of murdering U.S. Border Patrol Agent Luis Aguilar in January as Aguilar shortly after Montes illegally crossed the U.S. border into Arizona. Rep. McCaul’s request for a hearing follows a letter he signed last week to President Bush and Attorney General Mukasey requesting a full report of all activities and correspondence the U.S. government has had with the Mexican government regarding this case."Somebody screwed up," Congressman McCaul said. "And because of that we have a drug dealer at large who is suspected of killing a federal agent. I want to get to the bottom of this."Congressman McCaul, a former federal prosecutor in the Justice Department, says that a provisional arrest warrant for extradition could have been filed in a timely manner to extradite Montes. In his testimony, Secretary Chertoff would not confirm media reports that extradition paperwork was not filed until several days after Montes was released and the window to request extradition from Mexican authorities had closed. Chertoff deferred comment to Attorney General Michael Mukasey.
07.08.2008	AUSTIN – In a face to face meeting in Islamabad, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) urged Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf to help free two American citizens from an Islamic religious institution in Pakistan – the type which have been directly linked to the spawn of anti-American terrorism in the region that is the front line of the global war on terror. In their July 4 meeting President Musharraf assured Rep. McCaul that the teenagers would be released. The US Ambassador to Pakistan also gave assurances that they would be released, as early as this week."This demonstrates why we need to focus our resources on the epicenter of the war on terror in the Afghanistan/Pakistan region," said Rep. McCaul. "The madrassas come to America and recruit children to indoctrinate them into Islamic extremism.""These American boys should be released immediately. Pakistan has a policy to exclude foreigners from these madrassas including Americans. However, the policy has failed so far."Just hours after Congressman McCaul’s meeting with President Musharraf, Pakistan’s new civilian government announced it would continue Musharraf’s madrassas’ reform policy which includes expulsion of foreign students, registration with the federal government, control of their funding and standardization of their curricula.Noor Elahi Khan, 17, and Mahboob Elahi Khan, 16, of Atlanta, GA, are being held at the Jamia Binoria Institute in Karachi, recognized by both the U.S. and Pakistani governments as one of the most radical madrassas in Pakistan. Exit visas issued by the Pakistani government are holding up their departure. The boys enrolled in Binoria in August 2004, and have expressed the desire to leave Pakistan since their arrival. Despite attempts to free these children, and Pakistan’s policy that madrassas must expel any foreign students, including Americans, Mufti Muhammad Naeem, the head and founder of the Binoria madrassa, continues to hold these Americans in a show of political strength against the government.According to Naeem, the Khans are among 80 Americans enrolled in his madrassa. It is believed that there are 600 American boys being educated in 22 madrassas in Pakistan. The sole curriculum is to memorize the Koran. Well into their high school years the Khans have been denied a formal education.TIES TO TERRORMadrassas have come under intense international scrutiny for their anti-Western sentiment and links to terrorism since 9/11, and since the London subway bombings three years ago today, July 7, 2005. Three of the four suicide bombers who carried out the London plot were British nationals of Pakistani descent. Two attended madrassas in Pakistan. The Binoria madrassa is known to recruit Americans most aggressively. It prominently displays a banner supporting the Taliban. And it is documented that Osama bin Laden spoke to students at Binoria before the 9/11 attacks.While these religious schools purport to serve a purpose and educate Islamic children, great concern has grown over the increasing number of "political" madrassas. They mass-produce extremists with a political agenda, including a narrow view of society and no tolerance of Western culture. They radicalize Muslims and are seminaries for jihad."Most disturbing is that Americans and other westerners who are trained in these madrassas to hate America, have unfettered access to the United States. They leave the madrassas with intent to come back home to spread their message of hatred toward our country. Worst case they intend to kill us," Congressman McCaul said."The 9/11 terrorists had to work to infiltrate the United States to plan their attack. These madrassas are creating a new breed of terrorist that can come back to our country, work in our businesses, live next door, and teach our children with no questions asked. They are potential time bombs planted in our communities waiting to explode."BACKGROUNDDocumentary filmmaker Imran Raza, who is of Pakistani descent, discovered the Khans in the Binoria madrassa in 2005. He embarked on his documentary "Karachi Kids", www.karachikids.com, immediately after the London subway bombings. Raza has spearheaded the effort to remove the Khans from Binoria and bring them back to America.Congressman McCaul just returned from Pakistan with U.S. Representatives Gene Green and Henry Cuellar. They also visited wounded U.S. military personnel at Landstuhl Medical Center in Ramstein, Germany. And they toured the front line of the war on terror with U.S. troops in Afghanistan charged with rooting out Taliban and al Qaeda terrorist cells which have sought safe haven in that region.Congressman McCaul is a member of the House Homeland Security and Foreign Affairs committees. Before he was elected to Congress, McCaul served as chief of Counter-Terrorism and National Security in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Texas, and led the Joint Terrorism Task Force charged with detecting, deterring and preventing terrorist activity.
07.07.2008	AUSTIN – With violence escalating on the front line of the global war on terror, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) returned from an official visit to Pakistan and Afghanistan Monday expressing the need for more U.S. military resources in the region. Rep. McCaul toured the volatile region with some of the 27,000-30,000 U.S. personnel whose mission it is to take out Taliban and al Qaeda terrorist cells operating along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, many of which have found safe refuge in Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). The latest example of Taliban and al Qaeda resurgence, a suicide massive bombing of the Indian Embassy in Kabul, came just as Congressman McCaul left the region Monday."Today’s bombing represents a dramatic escalation in violence carried out by these terrorist groups. It is clear that the United States military needs more resources in Afghanistan to fight the war on terror," Rep. McCaul said. "There is a 40% increase in violence in Afghanistan which can be largely attributed to the tribal areas."Congressman McCaul met with Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf, and expressed grave concerns about the tribal areas providing a safe haven for Al Qaeda, the Taliban, and possibly Osama bin Laden. Their presence and isolation makes it likely the tribal areas would be the source for another terrorist attack in the U.S. Their existence also puts U.S. troops in Afghanistan at greater risk. President Musharraf indicated he would consider U.S. military assistance to root out terrorists in these areas but said he does not think his country would support such a joint operation involving the U.S. military in his country."Every day that Pakistan’s military fails to eradicate the terrorists, the terrorists continue to plot against America and the situation in the battlefield becomes more dangerous for our troops," Rep. McCaul said. "I believe it is imperative that U.S. forces be allowed to pursue the Taliban and al Qaeda in the tribal areas inside Pakistan’s border if we are to prevent another terrorist attack."With success in Iraq and the potential faster paced drawdown of U.S. troops from that country, Congressman McCaul believes we must take this opportunity to redirect our efforts in the war on terror in Afghanistan. In addition, Rep. McCaul believes that our NATO allies must increase their military presence in the region to more equitably share the financial and human cost.Congressman McCaul toured the most hostile region along the Pakistan border by Blackhawk helicopter, visiting troops at bases in Khost, Gardez and Ghazni, as well as at Camp Eggers in Kabul. He was proud to witness progress in reconstruction efforts for new roads, schools and education in Afghanistan. The Texas National Guard has been instrumental in this effort through the Texas Agribusinesses Development Team. Rep. McCaul believes this progress is winning over the hearts and minds of the people of Afghanistan, which is the key to long-term success in the war on terror.Congressman McCaul visited the Middle East with U.S. Representatives Gene Green and Henry Cuellar. They also visited wounded U.S. military personnel at Landstuhl Medical Center in Ramstein, Germany, and celebrated Independence Day with Americans at the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad.Congressman McCaul is a member of the House Homeland Security and Foreign Affairs committees. Before he was elected to Congress, McCaul served as chief of Counter-Terrorism and National Security in the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Texas, and led the Joint Terrorism Task Force charged with detecting, deterring and preventing terrorist activity.
07.03.2008	AUSTIN – Following the heroic rescue of 15 hostages, including three American contractors from leftist guerrillas in Columbia, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) applauded the Colombian government for its commitment to combating terrorists in its country."This rescue sends an important message to the world that Colombia, our strongest ally in South America, can be trusted to defend democracy and not let the terrorists have their way," said Rep. McCaul. "It gives the United States additional cause to support Colombia’s strengthening democracy. And there is no better way to do that in Congress than by passing the Colombia Free Trade Agreement."Democrats controlling Congress continue to show their allegiance to labor unions over the American people and the good of the U.S. economy. They have held up the proposed free trade agreement, even though it would either lift or diminish tariffs on U.S. exports to Colombia and give American businesses the same free trading environment that Colombian businesses enjoy in the United States.Congressman McCaul believes that a free trade agreement with Colombia would, in turn, strengthen that country’s economy. And bordering Hugo Chavez’s Venezuela, it would also help protect U.S. interests in a hostile and unstable region.
06.30.2008	AUSTIN – Veterans living in Tomball and Katy will soon have improved access and more convenient options for healthcare, with the announcement of two new Community Based Outpatient Clinics scheduled to be built."Both Katy and Tomball will be better prepared to serve veterans already in those areas as well as combat veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10). "Veterans’ medical care needs should be at the top of our priority list as we continue working to honor those who have served us. I support all measures that keep the promises made to our soldiers, sailors and airmen, and continue to help support their families."The Community Based Outpatient Clinics, or CBOB’s, will facilitate the transition of a veteran from a hospital, bed-based system of care to a more efficient, primary care system. Their objective is to provide care in the most effective and efficient setting with a professional medical staff, diagnostic testing and treatment capability, and referral arrangements needed to ensure continuity of health care.The new clinics in Tomball and Katy are two of five that will open in Texas and 44 planned across the United States. The clinics are operated by the Veterans Administration and are separate from the parent medical facility.Last week Congressman McCaul voted for an emergency supplemental funding bill which includes $4.6 billion for military construction and veterans hospitals. That figure is nearly double the president’s request. It includes $863 million for military hospitals, $396 million for VA hospitals and polytrauma centers, and more than $210 million for the military child care centers that the President announced in the State of the Union but never funded.Congressman McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston.
06.26.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Michael T. McCaul (R-TX10) congratulated the Tenth Congressional District winner of the 2008 Congressional Art Competition, Joel Stanulonis, a home-schooled high school student from Katy, Texas. His winning piece entitled "In Fields of Blue" depicts a longhorn in a field of bluebonnets.Winners of the Congressional Art Competition and two guests are provided with round trip tickets on Southwest Airlines to travel to Washington, D.C. A 2008 sponsor of the Congressional Art Contest, Southwest provides young, talented artists from across the Nation the opportunity to visit with their representatives and view their artwork in the Capitol."As one of the only national competitions honoring the talents and abilities of students at the high school level, this is quite an honor. I enjoy seeing Joel’s art work every time I walk from my office into the United States Capitol and I am proud to have Katy representing the 10th District," said Representative McCaul. "I hope it encourages other students from Katy and rest of the Tenth District to pursue their dreams knowing they can achieve success."Aspiring artists in high schools from across the Tenth Congressional District were encouraged to enter this year’s contest, titled "An Artistic Discovery". Stanulonis was announced as the winner at the Funky Art Café in Brenham April 28, where the entries were judged by independent judges. Stanulonis’s artwork will now hang for one year with the other winning entries from across the country in the Cannon Tunnel, which leads to the U.S. Capitol building.
06.26.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) will spend the Fourth of July weekend in Afghanistan with American soldiers on the front lines of the War on Terror who are fighting for the independence we celebrate."The Afghanistan-Pakistan border is literally the front line in the War on Terror," Congressman McCaul said. "These brave men and women have volunteered to put themselves in harm’s way to capture and kill terrorists who want to harm Americans. I want to see their progress for myself, find out what we can do to better support them, and personally say ‘thank you’."In Afghanistan, Congressman McCaul will attend church with members of our military on Sunday, July 6. In Pakistan he will meet with President Pervez Musharraf and members of that country’s parliament to discuss Pakistan’s important role in stopping the spread of terrorism. Pakistan held democratic elections in February and is working to set up a new government. The U.S. remains hopeful that the new government will be committed to gaining control of its border with Afghanistan and crack down on terrorist who are otherwise left to regroup and plan other attacks.Afghanistan is the front line of the war on terror. 25,000 to 30,000 U.S. troops, consisting of a mix of reserve, guard and active duty, are fighting to make sure the Taliban, one of the most aggressive regimes, doesn’t regain control of Afghanistan.
06.26.2008	AUSTIN - The United States Supreme Court silenced any doubt today that Americans have the individual right to bear arms under the Second Amendment of the Constitution by overturning Washington, D.C.'s 32 year old ban on handguns."Today the court affirmed what the Second Amendment clearly states, that the 'right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed'," said Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10). "This is a victory for freedom across America."Congressman McCaul joined other members of Congress in signing an amicus curiae (friend of the court) brief to the United States Supreme Court submitted by the National Rifle Association (NRA) and the NRA Civil Rights Defense Fund. The brief supported a lower federal appeals court decision holding that the Second Amendment protects an individual right to keep and bear arms, and asserts that the D.C. bans on handguns, on carrying firearms within the home and on possession of loaded or operable firearms for self-defense violate that fundamental right.Today's ruling means that the people of Washington, D.C. will once again have the right to protect themselves and their families from violent crimes. The D.C. handgun ban has prevented law abiding citizens from purchasing legal guns to be used for self defense. This is the first time since the Second Amendment was ratified in 1791 that the court has conclusively interpreted its meaning.
06.25.2008	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Michael McCaul (R- Austin) congratulated recent Westlake High School graduate Christina Chang for her selection as one of 139 outstanding high school seniors chosen to be a 2008 Presidential Scholar.The scholars, chosen by a 29-member Commission on Presidential Scholars appointed by President Bush, were selected based on their academic success, artistic excellence, community service, leadership and demonstrated commitment to high ideals. The 139 Presidential Scholars include one young man and one young woman from each state, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and from families of U.S. citizens living abroad. This also includes 15 chosen at-large and 20 Presidential Scholars in the Arts."I am so proud of Christina. This is one of the highest honors for a high school student," said Congressman McCaul. "With the decline in scientists and mathematicians, it is encouraging to see a young, bright student such as Christina excited about science. Christina’s commitment to excellence and contributions to society reflect the character and innovation necessary to keep America headed in the right direction."Christina and the other 2008 Presidential Scholars traveled to Washington, D.C. this week for National Recognition Week – five days of educational, celebratory and fellowship activities. The Scholars participated in seminars, lectures and workshops. The week culminates in a White House-sponsored event at which the Scholars are awarded the Presidential Medallion.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston. He currently serves as a member of the Science and Technology Committee, Committee on Homeland Security and Committee on Foreign Affairs.
06.19.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted to give American military forces fighting on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan the funding they need through an emergency supplemental budget bill. The Republican-backed $165.4 billion in war funding will cover costs through summer 2009. It passed the U.S. House Thursday after a several month impasse with Democrats controlling Congress."Today we can finally prove to our brave men and women risking their lives on the front lines of the war in Iraq and the War on Terror that we support your efforts to defend this nation and we will give you the proper tools to do it," said Rep. McCaul. "I’m glad the Democrats finally came to the negotiating table to support our troops. It’s unfortunate that it took this long."These men and women are the ones who keep our families safe here at home. I have been to Iraq and have seen them defending this country with honor and dignity, and I have comforted families in my district whose son or daughter gave their life for the rest of us. It is unimaginable that the Democrats controlling Congress, controlling the money we spend, would deny our service men and women funding for this long."Congressman McCaul has consistently advocated for full funding of our men and women in harm’s way in Iraq and Afghanistan and has opposed Congress micromanaging the war from Washington.In addition to funding our troops, the supplemental also requires the Iraqi government to match U.S. aid for that country’s reconstruction dollar for dollar. And the bill no longer contains the Democrats’ provision that existed in a previous version of the bill which set a timetable for troop withdraw.GI BenefitsCongressman McCaul also voted to prioritize our veterans’ heath and education needs. The supplement includes $62.8 billion to expand education benefits veterans receive under the GI bill to restore the promise of a full, four-year college education. It allows service members to transfer those benefits to their spouses and children once they have met length of service requirements. And it makes veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan part of an American economic recovery, similar to the veterans of World War II. (Details attached)"Our service men and women, with the support of their families, have volunteered to risk their lives for our nation," Rep. McCaul said. "We have an obligation to help them further their education and support their families by allowing them to transfer their benefits to their spouses and children. Not only will this relieve a great financial burden on our service members, but it will increase their families’ professional opportunities."VA HospitalsCongressman McCaul’s vote also includes $4.6 billion for military construction and veterans hospitals. That figure is nearly double the president’s request. It includes $863 million for military hospitals, $396 million for VA hospitals and polytrauma centers, and more than $210 million for the military child care centers that the President announced in the State of the Union but never funded.The emergency supplemental also includes funding for:Disaster Relief: $2.65 billion to ensure that critical resources are available to respond to disasters in the wake of tornadoes and flooding in the Midwest.Bureau of Prisons: $178 million urgently needed to meet rising incarceration costs and growing inmate population. The administration would have paid for these costs with cuts to state and local law enforcement.Border Security: $465 million to send military equipment to Mexico to assist with efforts to eradicate the drug cartels. Congressman McCaul agrees with this military strategy to keep the violence from spilling into Texas, but firmly believes we must also provide more funding and resources to our federal agents and border sheriffs on the U.S. side. Congressman McCaul will continue to offer amendments to secure that funding.
06.16.2008	AUSTIN – On a day devoted to celebrating some of the heroes in our lives, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) spent Father’s Day welcoming home the men and women of the U.S. Army’s 453rd Battalion and thanking them for fighting the War on Terror on the front lines in Afghanistan."These brave men and women have put their lives on hold leaving their families and their jobs to defend democracy," said Rep. McCaul, a father of five. "Being away from home on Father’s Day is a small sacrifice for me to make compared to the sacrifice that these men and women have made to fight the War on Terror. I am proud to stand here with them today."Approximately 100 reservists from across the Houston area were officially welcomed back to the United States by Katy VFW Post 9182, which adopted the 453rd Battalion. Congressman McCaul and Katy Mayor Don Elder were on hand to thank the reservists for their service. There is still a good chance they could be called back to active duty."It is often said that our fathers and grandfathers who defended our country during World War II were part of the greatest generation," Rep. McCaul, whose father was a B-17 bombardier navigator in World War II, told the reservists. "I believe that those of you who have so valiantly fought for our country in the War on Terror are a part of the next greatest generation."Congressman McCaul is a member of the Homeland Security Committee, where he serves as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity, Science and Technology. He is also a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He recently co-sponsored the GI Bill to extend education benefits to the families of our veterans.
06.12.2008	AUSTIN – After years of persistence, fighting alongside the bill’s author from the beginning, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) helped the U.S. House unanimously pass the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2008, allowing Americans touched by childhood cancer to mark at least one victory in the win column.Though it must still pass the Senate, the Conquer Child Cancer Act will finally draw attention to and set aside much needed funding to research and conquer the number one killer of our children among diseases."We as a country must act with a greater sense of urgency to stop this killer," said Rep. McCaul. "The statistics are enough to frighten any parent and they indicate that cancer shows no sign of loosening its grip on those who are most precious to us. Our children are still more likely to die from cancer than from drownings, fires, poisonings and accidental firearm deaths combined. And if you were to imagine your own child’s face associated with any of these statistics, you would begin to understand that the need to cure childhood cancer is unlike any other medical challenge we face.""The passage of the Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2008 is a critical step we must take in order to ensure our children and adolescents get the care they need to beat cancer," said Lance Armstrong, Chairman and Founder of the Lance Armstrong Foundation. "I am hopeful the Senate will follow the House’s lead and vote to improve the diagnosis, treatment and survivorship of America’s youth suffering from cancer."The Act will:Devote funding to help find a cure for childhood cancer. And it elevates our nation’s prioritization of pediatric cancer.Establish the National Childhood Cancer Research Database to evaluate the incidence of trends of childhood cancers. This is important because it will allow researchers to identify causes of the most common types of childhood cancer, further enabling them to develop and implement prevention and treatment strategies.Provide much-needed outreach and education for families of pediatric cancer patients to make sure they are aware of and have access to appropriate clinical treatment and support services."Finally. We’ve gotten so close every time," said Donna Culliver of Brenham. She and her husband Tim lost their four year old son, Adam, to Acute Myelogenous Leukemia in 2003. McCaul met the Cullivers shortly after their loss while campaigning for Congress for the first time and promised to pursue funding for childhood cancer research.Upon entering the House, he immediately teamed up with Rep. Deborah Pryce (R-OH). The bill is named for her nine year old daughter who lost her battle with neuroblastoma in 1999. He has helped garner support for the bill and was invited to the United Nations to speak on the bill’s behalf before the World Health Organization.Congressman McCaul has experienced his own losses to cancer. The disease took his father at the age of 63. He also lost a childhood friend to leukemia in fourth grade."It is said that the measure of a person’s life is what they did to leave this world a better place," said Congressman McCaul, the proud father of five children. "I believe it is incumbent upon each of us, especially those of us elected to serve, to do our part to rid this world of a disease that does not discriminate, for the sake of my children, yours, and eventually theirs."
06.11.2008	AUSTIN – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) claimed victory Wednesday for property owners in the Eastern half of the Tenth Congressional District. Land owners in Austin, Waller and Washington Counties are now completely out of the path of the proposed TTC 69 toll road. Tomball and Cypress in Western Harris County are now barely on the fringe of the proposed route."We are fortunate that most of the people in my district appear to be spared the wrath of TXDOT confiscating their land to build a toll road. But we still have work to do to make sure that peoples homes and land in the farthest reaches of my district, that have been in their families for generations, are not paved over."Congressman McCaul has worked tirelessly with the Texas Department of Transportation to minimize the impact of TTC 69 on his district. The Department announced Wednesday morning that it will recommend using existing highway corridors for the TTC 69 project and that proposed new corridors are no longer under consideration."The people of Texas and in my district have spoken loud and clear and the state finally got the message," Rep. McCaul said.
06.05.2008	AUSTIN – In the face of $4 gas and a sluggish economy, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) voted today to spare American taxpayers any more anguish at the hands of the Democratic-controlled Congress."It is unconscionable that Democrats want to kick American families while they are down," Rep. McCaul said. "Four dollar gas is bad enough. Now the Democrats controlling Congress want to increase everyone’s taxes and dig an even deeper hole in our economy."Congressman McCaul joined House Republicans in voting against the Democrats’ record tax increase proposed in their budget outline for FY2009. Taxes will increase because the plan fails to extend tax breaks that kept money in families’ pockets and helped sustain the economy. And for the first time, total discretionary spending will top $1 trillion. Highlights of the largest tax increase in American history include:Tax cut Expiration DateMarriage Penalty(Reduces standard deduction for joint filing)200% of individual deduction to 167%Child Tax Credit ($1,000 drops to $500) 12-31-2010Death Tax Reduction (0% percent increases to 55%) 12-31-2010State and Local Sales Tax Deduction EXPIRED*Texas is one of only 7 states without a state income tax which is deductible on federal income tax returns. The sales tax deduction allowed Texans to realize a similar tax savings.Dividends Taxed at Capitol Gains Rate 12-31-2010Taxed at income tax rateLowered income tax brackets 12-31-2010The marginal income tax rates will increase as follows:ooooo 35% bracket will increase to 39.6% 33% bracket will increase to 36% 28% bracket will increase to 31% 25% bracket will increase to 28% 10% and 15% brackets will condense to 15%Reduced Capital Gains Rate 12-31-2010The capital gains rates for individuals will increase fromoo 0% to 10%. 15% to 20%"The tax on capital gains directly affects investment decisions, the mobility and flow of risk capital… the ease or difficulty experienced by new ventures in obtaining capital, and thereby the strength and potential for growth in the economy."- President John F. Kennedy, 1963Spending in FY09 Democratic Budget ResolutionTotal Discretionary spending in 2009 $1.016 trillion $21 billion over the President’s request $241 billion in additional spending over 5 years Total Spending (including mandatory entitlements) $3.03 trillion"The United States cannot continue down this path of reckless spending and tax hikes," said Rep. McCaul, who saw first-hand the struggles of families and businesses when he toured the 10th Congressional District last week. "Every business is hurting and every household is hurting, every time they fill up their cars or go to the grocery store. With a struggling economy the last thing our country needs is to increase taxes. Principally, I believe it is wrong. But this increase from the Democrats couldn’t come at a worse time."In contrast, Congressman McCaul supports the Republican budget of lower, responsible spending as well as his balanced American-Made Energy plan to gain energy independence, economic stability and lower gas prices. Democrats, meantime, continue to block legislation allowing the United States to drill for more oil domestically even though the technology exists to preserve the sensitive environment in "off limits" areas.The Democrats’ record tax proposal comes on the same day that gas climbed to another record of $3.99 per gallon, a 71% increase since Democrats took control of Congress 17 months ago when a gallon of unleaded sold for $2.33. And it comes on the same day that Houston-based Continental Airlines announced extensive job and service cuts directly related to the price of fuel because of what it calls the "worst crisis since 9/11". 12-31-2010
05.27.2008	AUSTIN, TX – A bold, conservative energy plan, low taxes and watching what we spend are the primary components of Congressman Michael McCaul’s (R-TX 10) proposal to turn around the economy and bring down gas prices that have soared to new records since January 2007. Democrats took control of Congress in January of 2007.Congressman McCaul explained his plan as he continued his Memorial Week recess Economic Prosperity Tour of the district in Katy and Sealy. He discussed several issues that Texas families confront every day, including gas prices, taxes, spending and security. The following is a synopsis of Congressman McCaul’s position on these issues.GAS PRICES"We can and we will stabilize prices, but we must have the will to wean our dependency on foreign oil and we must be committed to a long-term strategy," said Congressman Michael McCaul.$3.77 = Texas average for one gallon of regular unleaded$3.88 = National average May 23, 2008$2.33 = National average January 2007The problem is two-fold.1) Increased worldwide demand. We have no control over that.2) Only 25% of the oil we consume is produced domestically.AMERICAN MADE ENERGY"The truth is, we didn’t get into this mess overnight and we’re not getting out of it overnight, either." Congressman Michael McCaulCongressman McCaul offers a long-term solution to bring gas prices down and decrease our dependency on foreign oil – much of which is produced by countries that support terrorism.Alternative energyIncreased domestic productionPermit more refineriesStrategic Petroleum Reserve"NO MORE EXCUSES ENERGY ACT OF 2007" (sponsor)No More Excuses Energy Act of 2007 - Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe regulations for the taxpayer election to expense the cost of certain refinery property not later than 60 days after the enactment of this Act.Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow the issuance of tax exempt facility bonds for the financing of domestic use oil refinery facilities; (2) extend through 2018 the tax credit for producing electricity from wind facilities; and (3) allow tax credits for the production of electricity from nuclear energy, natural gas production, and carbon dioxide tertiary injectant processes.Requires the President to designate at least 10 sites for oil or natural gas refineries on federal lands and make such sites available to the private sector for construction of refineries.Prohibits the Nuclear Regulatory Commission from denying an application for nuclear waste disposal on the grounds of present or future insufficient capacity.Terminates all existing federal laws prohibiting expenditures to conduct oil and natural gas leasing and preleasing activities in the Outer Continental Shelf.American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish and implement a competitive oil and gas leasing program in the Coastal Plain of Alaska.Repeals the prohibition against producing oil and gas from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.Sets forth requirements for the sale of oil and natural gas leases in the Coastal Plain, environmental protection, transportation easements, and royalty payments to Alaska.Establishes in the Treasury the Coastal Plain Local Government Impact Aid Assistance Fund to assist Alaska jurisdictions that are directly impacted by oil and gas exploration and production in the Coastal Plain.TAXES"The good news in all of this is that even in difficult times, the United States has a large, diverse economy, and it will improve. But one thing we know we must do is to keep taxes and spending low," Congressman Michael McCaul said.Congressman McCaul has voted consistently to extend important tax credits and deductions because he believes the money is better spent in the hands of the people who earn it than in the hands of the government.However, in March, Rep. McCaul was forced to vote against a Majority proposal which included the extension of the R&D tax credit and state and local sales tax deductions, because the Democrat led Congress wants Americans to pay for these tax cuts with $54 billion in new, permanent taxes. Congressman McCaul believes that defeats the purpose, and is the epitome of a Washington shell game.In fact, the Majority budget Congressman McCaul voted against amounts to the largest tax increase in history: $683 billion. The average Texas taxpayer will see an increase of almost $3,000 a year. Much of that increase comes from the Majority Leaderships’ failure to renew several other tax cuts that have or will expire.**Tax cutDeath Tax Reduction (0% percent in ’10, 55% in ’11) 12-31-2010Child Tax Credit (Drops from $1,000 to $500) 12-31-2010Lowered Income Tax Brackets 12-31-2010• The marginal income tax rates will increase as follows:o 35% bracket will increase to 39.6%o 33% bracket will increase to 36%o 28% bracket will increase to 31%o 25% bracket will increase to 28%o 10% and 15% brackets will condense to 15%Reduced Capital Gains Rate 12-31-2010• The capital gains rates for individuals will increase from o 0% to 10%.o 15% to 20%**Because these tax cuts are assumed to expire in the Majority Budget they will be forced to find offsets if they decide to extend any of these tax cuts. In other words, more tax increases are coming.SPENDING (EARMARKS)"Earmarks are great and necessary tools when they are used properly. They get roads and bridges built. They help fight crime and fund assistance programs. But this process needs to stop until we find a way to make it 100% transparent and stop wasting your money," said Congressman Michael McCaul.Instead of increasing taxes, we need to cut spending. One way of doing that is to make sure we are not wasting money on pet projects that only benefit a small few… like the Bridge to Nowhere in Alaska. Too many special interest projects have misspent your hard earned tax dollars.That is why I am doing my part to stop it. I have self-imposed a one-year moratorium on the federal earmark process. Expiration DateResearch and Development Tax Credit EXPIREDState and Local Sales Tax Deduction EXPIREDAlternative Minimum Tax Exemption 12-31-2008Marriage Penalty (Reduces standard deduction for joint filing) 12-31-2010• 200% of individual deduction to 167%- Manhattan Project for Energy Independence- Alternative energy tax credits (creates and extends)- Opens "off limits areas" for drilling- Tax exempt bonds for new refineries- Nuclear power: Temporarily stop adding to it the until gas prices are under control. Congressman McCaul disagrees with President Bush on this strategy.: no new permits have been permitted in 30 years. by drilling in ANWR and OCS. Reports indicate that even with alternative advances, the United States will still require oil and gas for 60% of our energy needs 20 years from now. : As a member of the Science and Technology Committee, Congressman McCaul is a longtime believer that we must invest in alternative energy: hydro-electric, wind, solar, nuclear, plug-in hybrids, etc. The world cannot rely strictly on oil long-term.
05.16.2008	AUSTIN, TX – Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX 10) applauded the efforts of Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison to secure $100 million in the Senate for our federal agents and border sheriffs defending our country against brazen Mexican drug cartels.Meanwhile, Congressman McCaul continues to pursue $500 million in the House to give our federal agents and border sheriffs more resources to secure the border. It is part of his two pronged military strategy to take out the cartels in Mexico and stop the violence from spilling over into the United States."The border is our last line of defense in the War on Terror. And I believe we must do everything we can to secure it, and at the same time take the fight to the cartels on the Mexican side," McCaul said. "It is my hope that the amendment seeking this funding that I proposed in the House Foreign Affairs Committee Wednesday will now be granted a hearing in the Judiciary Committee."Rep. McCaul and Sen. Hutchison agree that more money is needed on the U.S. side of the border to ensure that federal and local law enforcement are properly equipped to locate anyone who is smuggling drugs, weapons or humans into our country. "The Merida initiative will help Mexico combat the challenges of narco-trafficking, but it does not address the needs of U.S. border sheriffs and police officers who are waging the same battle every day," Sen. Hutchison said.In a report he authored in 2006 titled "A Line in the Sand", Congressman McCaul predicted the rise to power of the Mexican drug cartels and the increased violence and corruption they spawn.Congressman McCaul looks forward to continuing to work with Senator Hutchison as well as his House colleagues to ensure that our border with Mexico is secure.
04.29.2008	(AUSTIN, TX) – Congressman Michael T. McCaul (R-TX10) announced that the Tenth Congressional District winner of the 2008 Congressional Art Competition, is Joel Stanulonis, a home-schooled high school student in Katy. His winning piece was titled "In Fields of Blue" and depicted a longhorn in a field of bluebonnets.Aspiring artists in high schools from across the Tenth Congressional District were encouraged to enter this year’s contest, titled "An Artistic Discovery". Stanulonis was announced as the winner Monday at the Funky Art Café in Brenham, where the entries were judged by independent judges last week. Stanulonis’s artwork will now hang for one year with the other winning entries from across the country in the Cannon Tunnel, which leads to the U.S. Capitol building."I look forward to seeing Joel’s work every time I walk from my office into the United States Capitol," said Representative McCaul. "I hope it encourages other students from Katy and rest of the Tenth District to pursue their dreams knowing they can achieve success."Second place went to Brittanie Green, a student at Giddings High School in Giddings, for her sketch titled "Love in ‘43" depicting her recently-passed great grandparents.Southwest Airlines will offer Stanulonis and two of his guests, complementary round-trip tickets to Washington, D.C. to attend the national reception and view their art work on display. He could also receive a $5,000 scholarship from The Savannah College of Art and Design pending application and acceptance.The remaining Tenth District entries will hang in the Funky Art Café through May 31.
04.25.2008	President George W. BushThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C.Dear President Bush:On April 23, 2007, I wrote to you about the case of former Border Patrol Agents Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean who were sentenced to 11 years and 1 day, and 12 years, respectively, in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas. These former Border Patrol agents shot Osvaldo Aldrete Davila, a drug trafficker who they were attempting to apprehend while he was transporting 743 pounds of marijuana across the U.S.-Mexico border.Recently, it has become clear that Mr. Aldrete Davila was in fact trafficking drugs while under immunity as a cooperating witness for federal prosecutors in their case against former Agents Ramos and Compean. On Thursday, April 17th 2008, Aldrete Davila pled guilty to possession of a controlled substance, conspiracy to import a controlled substance and conspiracy to distribute for his involvement in transporting two loads of marijuana both over 740 pounds valued at approximately $1 million each. What is even more disturbing is that Mr. Aldrete Davila could serve less time in prison than former Agents Ramos and Compean.As I have previously stated in public, the penalty levied on these former Agents is excessive and I have serious concerns regarding the prosecution of this case. In addition, their requests to remain out of prison while their appeal was pending were unreasonably denied. I believe the former Agents deserve the immediate exercise of your Executive clemency powers because to allow them to serve over a decade in prison would represent a serious miscarriage of justice.Former Agents Ramos and Compean have now been in prison for more than a year and have had limited contact with their wives and children. Much of that time has been spent in solitary confinement and Agent Ramos was physically assaulted while serving his term. Both agents will remain incarcerated, even if their conviction is ultimately thrown out on appeal, unless action is taken quickly.This case has also had a negative impact on other Border Patrol Agents. As we are in the process of trying to increase the number of Border Patrol Agents, this case has been devastating to the morale, recruitment and retention of those serving on the front lines in defense of our nation.I do not believe that justice will be served by Agents Ramos and Compean spending over a decade in prison. I therefore reiterate my previous requests for you to commute their prison sentences immediately.Sincerely,_____________________Michael T. McCaulMember of Congress
04.22.2008	(Washington, DC) – Earlier today, Earth Day, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) along with Congresswoman Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), co-founding members of the bi-partisan Congressional High Tech Caucus, held an Earth Day discussion about Green Tech and how Congress can help grow the industry.Green Technology reaches far beyond hybrid cars and florescent light bulbs. Cost-effective solar panels and wind turbines could one day replace fossil fuels. Semiconductors that use less energy while offering higher performance. There are hardware and software that create a "SmartGrid". And plug-in hybrid cars will lessen our reliance upon foreign oil. Much of this technology is being developed here in America and has the potential to create thousands of "green collar jobs" in our 21st century economy."This is exciting potential," said Congressman McCaul. "We have the ability to turn our own American technology into energy. And that could one day help to give us energy independence. In the meantime, it will help spark the economy."The panel discussion focused upon this exciting potential and what Congress could do to encourage innovative applications of technology to energy. The discussion was moderated by Leon Radomsky, Partner, Foley & Lardner LLP.Guest Speakers: Blair Swezey, Senior Director, Solar Markets & Public Policy, Applied Materials Donna Sadowy, Senior Technical Staff, Global Environmental, Health and Safety, AMD Harry Wingo, Vice President, Government and Regulatory Affairs, CURRENT Group, LLC Dean Taylor, Senior Technical Scientist, Electrical Transportation Division, Southern California Edison Bill Kingsley, Managing Partner, EnerTech CapitalThe United States should be on the forefront of emerging technologies and high tech industries. By promoting dialogue and soliciting briefings on issues of interest, the Caucus strives to strengthen relations between Members of Congress and those involved in the tech industry. Our High Tech Caucus gives industry leaders, university and private researchers and interested groups the ability to share their ideas to improve our high tech sector, expand job growth and improve American competitiveness.Created at the beginning of the 110th Congress, the Congressional High Tech Caucus is a forum in which Members of Congress address the concerns vital to this important industry. The Caucus solicits briefings from industry leaders and experts as well as educators and government officials working on related issues. The Caucus gives industry leaders, university and private researchers and interested groups the ability to share their ideas, by promoting dialogue, to improve our high tech sector, expand job growth and improve American competitiveness.The Caucus has previously held roundtable panel events on: the Patent Reform Act, the "White Spaces" issue before the FCC, and Cybersecurity. Future Caucus events may focus on: Fair Use and Health IT.Current members of the Congressional High Tech Caucus are:Reps. McCaul, Gillibrand, Bilbray, Issa, Sessions, Carter, Reichert, Wu, E.B. Johnson, Honda, Barton, Hall, Inslee, Kennedy, McCotter, Brady (TX), Kuhl, Mack, Lipinski, G. Davis, Conaway, McHenry, McMorris-Rodgers, Manzullo, Shuster, Dent, Blackburn, Wolf, Cantor, Sullivan, Burgess, Marchant, Camp, Feeney, Rohrabacher, Bono, Kirk, Boren, McNerney, Courtney, Eshoo, Mahoney, Melancon, Shuler, Klein, Yarmuth, Shea-Porter, Matheson, Jackson-Lee, Waxman, Lofgren, Sali, Radonovich, Richardson
04.15.2008	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) spoke today on the House floor after Democrats defeated a GOP-led vote to stop the largest tax increase in American history.Today, April 15th, is the day American taxpayers scramble to comply with a tax code, over 67,000 pages long. In 2007, individual taxpayers spent an estimated 3.18 billion hours complying with the federal income tax laws. Individuals spend $26.5 billion for tax software, tax preparers, postage, and other costs related to filing their federal income tax, while corporations spend $156.5 billion to comply with federal tax laws. Americans may send two and a half trillion dollars to the IRS, but the cost to our economy is much greater.Despite this, the majority party is forcing a $654 billion dollar tax increase on the American people, the largest in American history. Whether you are a single filer or a family, investor or small business, you will be hit with the largest tax hike in American history, courtesy of the budget passed last month by this Democratic Congress. As the economy struggles, your tax bill will be higher. At a time when families and businesses are already struggling with rising gas prices and high costs of living, the Democratic Majority declines the chance to stop the tax hike that will affect every American taxpayer, sending more money to Washington for wasteful spending."It’s time to scrap the IRS and this oppressive tax code. It’s time to look at the fair tax or the flat tax as viable alternatives to our overly burdensome tax code. It’s time to stop punishing taxpayers and pass fundamental tax reform," stated Congressman McCaulOn June 14, 2007, Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI) introduced the Tax Increase Prevention Act (H.R. 2734). The legislation would stop the $683 billion tax increase passed by House Democrats in March as part of their FY 2009 budget proposal. House Republicans used Rep. Walberg’s proposal to force today’s vote on stopping the largest tax increase in American history, however, House Democrats stood firmly with Speaker Pelosi and defeated the GOP proposal.
04.15.2008	(Lexington, Texas) -U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul met with members of the Lexington Volunteer Fire Department recently to see first-hand the hazardous conditions on FM 696, a 22-mile road that runs from US 290 to US 77 in Lee County.The two-lane stretch of road is only 11 feet wide on several bridges, making it impossible for two vehicles to cross at once. The lanes on most of the road are as narrow as 6 feet. This, along with the steep declines on each side of the road, has led to a high number of fatality accidents. In February, two local women were killed and a Lexington man critically injured as the result of a head-on collision. Both women were employees of the Luminant Mining’s Three Oaks Lignite Mine, located on FM 696.According to police reports, the 2006 Dodge pickup driven by the 34-year-old Lexington man was eastbound approaching the bridge on FM 696 when the right front tire/wheel struck the cement guard rail and the vehicle crossed into the westbound lane, striking the 2000 Chevrolet pickup driven westbound by the 44-year-old Rockdale woman. The driver was pronounced dead at the scene, as was the 47-year-old Cameron woman who was riding with her.On Thursday, April 10, just days after Congressman McCaul’s visit, a school bus ran off the roadway and rolled three times. Luckily, there were no students on the bus and the driver sustained only minor injuries. The cause of the accident was the lack of a shoulder on a narrow road, according to Michael Milburn, assistant fire chief with the Lexington Volunteer Fire Department."My thoughts and prayers go out to everyone who has lost a loved one on this dangerous stretch of road," said Congressman McCaul. "Last week's bus rollover shows how urgent this matter is. I will work hard to move this project to the top of the list for TXDOT road improvements."During his visit, Congressman McCaul met with Milburn, local resident Greg Davidson, and local resident and volunteer fire fighter David Sherrill, who has been leading the effort to have the road expanded.While a portion of the road has been expanded thanks to the Luminant Plant, much of the road is without shoulders. Lexington EMS vehicles will no longer travel on the road due to its unsafe conditions, meaning they must travel 10 miles farther when transporting patients from Lexington to Austin. School buses must stop in the middle of the road to drop off children.More than 2,000 cars travel on the road daily, according to Sherrill. FM 696 is the only arterial road between Elgin and the community of Lexington, and is a short-cut between Austin and College Station. The road also serves unincorporated areas along its route, as well as the 130 employees of the Luminant Plant (formerly Alcoa). The number of employees at the plant is expected to rise to 250 once the facility is at full power.
04.11.2008	(Washington D.C.)-- On April 10, Congressman Michael McCaul introduced H.R. 5771 to end the practice of Congress using the taxpayers’ money to fund projects named after current Members of Congress. 24 other Members of Congress joined the bill as original cosponsors."The American people are outraged by the waste and abuse they see in Congressional earmarks. One of the most egregious of these practices is Members using taxpayer money to name the projects after themselves," said Congressman McCaul. "My bill is very simple. It prohibits federal funds from being used for any project named after a sitting Member of Congress."This legislation has been well received by congressional watchdog groups that fight against wasteful spending in Washington and has been endorsed by National Taxpayers Union and Americans for Prosperity. Ed Frank, the Vice President of Public Affairs for Americans for Prosperity said, "Going back more than 200 years, there's never been a shortage of vanity in Washington, but that doesn't mean that taxpayers should fund it…Congressman McCaul's legislation may not make him the most popular guy on Capitol Hill, but it certainly makes him a friend of the taxpayer, which is far more important."H.R. 5771 has been referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
04.09.2008	(Washington, D.C.) – U.S. Congressman Michael McCaul(R-TX) attended a hearing of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs to ask our nation’s top general and chief diplomat on the ground about the progress of our troops in Iraq.General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker testified to the committee for the first time since September to provide a candid assessment of the status of our mission in Iraq. Since last September, there has been significant security progress in Iraq. Levels of violence and civilian deaths have been reduced substantially, Al Qaeda-Iraq and a number of other extremist elements have been dealt serious blows and the capabilities of Iraqi Security Force elements have grown. In addition, the Iraqi Council of Representatives and the Presidency Council have enacted a budget and passed important laws to bring political reconciliation to Iraq."The success achieved by our troops since General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker last sat before Congress is undeniable. Violence in Iraq is down, Iraqi people are taking greater responsibility for the future of their nation and our troops are beginning to return home. Although we are making great advancements on the ground in Iraq, progress toward political reconciliation has come too slowly and the Iraqi Government must understand that our commitment is not open ended. In order for our troops to maintain the progress they have made and return home, Congress must pass a clean, pork-free funding bill to give our troops the resources they need to continue making progress," stated Congressman McCaul.
04.09.2008	(WASHINGTON, D.C.)—U.S. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) received the Spirit of Enterprise Award from The United States Chamber of Commerce for his support of pro-growth legislation during the second session of the 110th Congress earlier today."It is an honor to receive such a prestigious award from the world’s largest business organization. As the voice of free enterprise, the Chamber of Commerce is a leader in the business community and is one of the most trusted organizations in Washington, DC. I am pleased to be recognized among those lawmakers who have demonstrated leadership on important business issues. It has been a pleasure to work with the national Chamber as well as the local Chambers of Commerce in my district," said Congressman McCaul.The Chamber’s prestigious Sprit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on rankings it gives for key business votes outlined in its yearly publication How They Voted. Representative McCaul holds a cumulative 93% ranking during his tenure in Congress."Representative McCaul has proven to be an effective ally to the business community, supporting legislation that helps grow the economy and creates new jobs for hardworking Americans," said Tom Donohue, Chamber president and CEO. "The Chamber is grateful for Michael’s commitment to these important issues and is proud to present him with this award."These designated key votes are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. Those members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70% of those votes receive the award.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
04.09.2008	(Brenham, Texas) - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) recently traveled to Brenham to meet with employees at Valmont Industries, an irrigation and utilities manufacturing company that employees over 250 people in Brenham and over 100 in Bellville, both within the Tenth District.Consistently applying advancing technology to products and processes alike, Valmont Industries was the obvious candidate to produce the steel rods needed for the construction of the border fence. During his visit, Congressman McCaul saw stacks of fencing ready to be shipped out to construction sites."As a member of the Homeland Security Committee, border security is one of my top priorities. I am extremely proud to have a company in my district playing such a vital role in the effort to secure our border," said Congressman McCaul.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
03.25.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), along with Congresswoman Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), co-founding members of the bi-partisan, Congressional High Tech Caucus, jointly introduced H. Res. 1017, expressing support for designation of the week before Thanksgiving as `Global Entrepreneurship Week' to inspire young people everywhere to embrace innovation, imagination, and creativity and to train the next generation of entrepreneurial leaders."I am proud to work in a truly bipartisan manner to help celebrate our nation’s best and brightest," Congressman McCaul said. "These are extraordinarily talented individuals who are willing and able to convert a new idea or invention into a successful innovation, thereby contributing to our economy." "Entrepreneurs are highly motivated by an overwhelming need for achievement and strong urge to build. These are traits that must be applauded and shared with our next generation of achievers."The strength of this country’s economic growth and stability is tied directly to the success of entrepreneurs, and now more than ever, it is vital that we encourage enterprising behavior in those who will see our nation through to the future. Thousands of organizations in the United States will join in the celebration of Global Entrepreneurship Week by planning activities designed to inspire, connect, inform, mentor and engage the next generation of entrepreneurs. The week will harness the energy of social networking and connect people—students, educators, entrepreneurs, business leaders, employees, non-profit leaders, government officials, and others—taking action to catalyze an entrepreneurial society.Global Entrepreneurship Week will weave into the fabric of everyday life, engaging young people in school, at home, on the web and at work. Through this initiative, the next generation of entrepreneurs will emerge and acquire the knowledge, skills, networks, and values needed to grow innovative, sustainable enterprises with a positive impact on their lives and the lives of those around them.In a world of vanishing boundaries, Global Entrepreneurship Week will find new ways to connect with the next generation of entrepreneurs, showing them that it is possible not just to dream big dreams but to achieve big things.Created at the beginning of the 110th Congress, the Congressional High Tech Caucus is a bipartisan forum of 60 Members of Congress formed to address the concerns vital to this important industry. The Caucus solicits briefings for Members of Congress and their staffs from industry leaders and experts as well as educators and government officials working on related issues. The Caucus gives Members of Congress, congressional and agency staffers, industry leaders, university and private researchers and interested groups the ability to share their ideas, by promoting dialogue, to improve our high tech sector, expand job growth and improve American competitiveness.
03.24.2008	(AUSTIN) - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) presented a check for $188,000 to Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo at the Austin Police Department this morning. The federal money will help support an innovative partnership between the Austin Independent School District and the APD. It will allow the AISD School Resource Officers and the APD Gang Unit to improve their methods of information sharing to establish a more effective police response to juvenile involvement in gangs. Funding will be used to create a shared database called the Juvenile Gang Intelligence Program."The lack of a data sharing method puts both law enforcement agencies at a significant disadvantage in fighting gang related crime. I am proud to have been able to secure funding that will allow the Austin Police Department to work hand in hand with Austin Independent School District to keep our schools and community safe," stated Congressman McCaul.The Austin Independent School District (AISD) serves over 93,000 students and teachers. The AISD Police Department has School Resource Officers working at the 17 high schools and 21 middle schools to keep the campuses safe. Some AISD school administrators collect information on students suspected of being involved in gangs on a school-by-school basis, but a formal process does not exist for utilizing this information, or sharing this information on a district-wide basis. The Austin Police Department also gathers data on confirmed gang members, most of whom are adults. APD has very little information on juvenile activity as it does not have a means to share information with the school district police. These funds, secured by Rep. McCaul, will be used to develop a shared database for gang-related information."The Austin Police is honored to receive these federal funds," said Police Chief Art Acevedo. "This funding will be used to develop a shared database for gang-related information between the Austin Police Department and the Austin Independent School District. In addition, the database will help us reach out to these kids and identify kids that are headed down the wrong path and ultimately help us intervene in their lives."In addition to the $188,000, Congressman McCaul, along with U.S. Reps. Lloyd Doggett and Lamar Smith, obtained a separate $211,500 appropriation for APD police technology. The secured funding will be used to purchase a new driving simulator for police officer training.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
03.18.2008	(AUSTIN)- U.S. Congressman Michael McCaul visited Communities in Schools this morning to announce $195,000 of federal funding awarded to the dropout prevention program. Community in Schools (CIS) is the largest dropout prevention organization in the United States. For 30 years, CIS has remained focused on helping kids stay in school.High Schools located in Central Texas, like other urban schools across the United States, are not meeting the needs of their students’ because large numbers of them do not graduate. High school students today struggle with what can seem like insurmountable odds, teen pregnancy, mental health issues, poverty, incarcerated parents, and gang involvement are a few. The mission of CIS is to help keep kids stay in school and prepare for life."In our society finishing high school and attaining a college degree is more important than ever. This program will increase the number of productive citizens who will positively contribute to the communities around them," stated Congressman McCaul.To identify and address the unmet needs of children and families, CIS begins by building relationships with the students and their families. Appropriate services are then provided including individual and group counseling, pairing students with a mentor, academic support, enriching field trips, and preparation for work and college.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
03.18.2008	(AUSTIN) - U.S. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) along with University President Dr. Larry Earvin and Dr. Joseph Jones, Jr. Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences announce $243,000 in federal funding being awarded to Houston-Tillotson’s Math and Science Success Center."As a member of the Science and Technology Committee, I am proud to have secured federal funding for a University that is taking proactive steps towards addressing the decline in scientists and mathematicians," stated Congressman McCaul.The federal funding will go towards the creation of a new Math and Science Success Center in the Dickey-Lawless Science Building on the Houston-Tillotson campus in Austin. The Math and Science Success Center will focus on undergraduate students who are capable of pursuing additional training in math and science."The Center will have two major components. The first will create a pipeline of middle and high school students with the requisite skills to pursue degrees in STEM fields. The second component focuses on the campus laboratory environment for discovery learning. This is the first phase of a much larger initiative," said Larry L. Earvin, President of Huston-Tillotson University.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
03.18.2008	GIDDINGS) – The volunteer firefighters serving the town of Giddings and the surrounding areas of South Lee County have recently received vital funding for equipment from the federal government.U.S. Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) announces a $38,204 federal grant awarded to the South Lee County Volunteer Fire Department near Giddings. The money is awarded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration.The purpose of the FY 2007 AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and non-affiliated emergency medical service (EMS) organizations. These awards aim to enhance first responders’ ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel, with respect to fire-related hazards. Using a competitive process overseen by fire service subject matter experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG program."This is exactly the kind of grant the fire department needs. Since 9/11 and as a Member of the Homeland Security Committee, I have worked hard to secure these grants for our first responders. It is vital that the volunteer firefighters have the tools they need to respond quickly and protect the health and safety of the public. This grant will help ensure that the department can grow and make fighting fires easier and safer for the fire fighters and the people of Giddings," stated Congressman McCaul.Michael McCaul is currently serving his second term representing Texas' 10th District in the United States Congress. The 10th Congressional District of Texas stretches across 8 counties from Austin to the Houston suburbs, and includes Austin, Bastrop, Burleson, Harris, Lee, Travis, Washington and Waller Counties.
03.13.2008	(Washington, DC) - Congressman Patrick J. Kennedy (D-RI) and Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) announced the introduction of the New American Innovators Act. The New American Innovators Act would exempt foreign students receiving Ph.D.’s from accredited, American universities from numerical immigration limits."The New American Innovators Act takes the best and the brightest and moves them to the front of the green card line," said Congressman Patrick Kennedy. "The global competition for talent is getting fiercer with each passing year. Although we already have the most talented workforce in the world, we cannot sit idly by while other countries work to attract the best international talent – especially when those individuals have been educated in our universities. The New American Innovators Act targets the cream of the crop. These are individuals who will generate breakthroughs, start businesses, create jobs, and ultimately help to drive our economic growth for years to come. It is absurd that we would spend time and money educating them only to force them to go to our economic competitors, even if they want to stay.""We need to ensure that U.S. employers continue to create and stay on the ‘cutting-edge’ of the global market," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. "I am proud to work across the aisle in a bipartisan fashion to co-introduce this bill with Congressman Kennedy that will add to America’s economic strength by offering increased access to the best talent, no matter where they may be born. These individuals are the best and the brightest, having graduated from U.S. universities with doctorate degrees and are already present and working in America. These professionals add to our prosperity, by making enormous contributions to our economy. The last thing we want to do is force them to leave the country. ""We must continue to be committed to ensuring U.S. employers have the talent necessary to compete worldwide. Without the ability to retain them, we risk losing these hard-working, valued workers, who we have spent an enormous amount of funds training and educating to our national competitors abroad."
03.13.2008	(Washington, D.C.)- Representative McCaul voted to protect his constituents from the largest tax increase in American history, part of a fiscally irresponsible budget proposed by the House Democrat majority. The budget hikes taxes on the American people by $684 billion, which will negatively affect some people making only $32,000 a year, to bankroll new wasteful spending. Under the Democrat budget, 116 million American taxpayers will pay higher taxes. Texas taxpayers will see an average increase of nearly $3000, money that they need to cover higher gas, food, and healthcare prices.The Democrats have proposed a tax and spend budget that increases taxes on the people of Texas by allowing important tax deductions to expire. These include:Not Renewing the State and Local sales Tax deduction,Not fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax,Raising the marginal income tax rates:o 35% bracket will increase to 39.6%o 33% bracket will increase to 36%o 28% bracket will increase to 31%o 25% bracket will increase to 28%o 10% and 15% brackets will condense to 15%Raising the Capital Gains rate from 0% and 10% to 10% and 20%,Reinstatement of the Marriage Penalty by reducing the standard deduction for married couples from 200% to 167% of the standard deduction for an individual, andReinstate the Death Tax which will have completely disappeared in 2010"I cannot support a budget that forces Texas taxpayers to send more of their money to Washington. If American families are forced to live within their means then the federal government should have to do the same. It’s time for us to reign in spending on wasteful programs and stop overtaxing the American people," stated Representative McCaul.Representative McCaul voted against the Democratic Budget, but did support the fiscally responsible Republican alternative, which holds spending and balances the budget while protecting the tax cuts that have spurred economic growth since 2003
03.05.2008	(Washington, DC) - The Committee on Standards of Official Conduct voted on February 28, 2008 to establish an investigative subcommittee to conduct an inquiry regarding Representative Richard G. Renzi with Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, will serving as the top Republican. Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, D-Calif., will chair the subcommittee. Others on the panel include Rep. Steve Rothman, D-N.J., and Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore.Federal prosecutors indicted Renzi on 35 counts of criminal wrongdoing, including conspiracy, extortion and fraud in United States of America v. Richard G. Renzi, Case Number CR 08-0212 in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, will serve as the top Republican with Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, D-Calif., chairing the subcommittee. Others on the panel include Rep. Steve Rothman, D-N.J., and Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore.The investigative subcommittee shall have jurisdiction to determine whether Representative Renzi violated the Code of Official Conduct or any law, rule, regulation, or other standard of conduct applicable to his conduct in the performance of his duties or the discharge of his responsibilities. The scope of jurisdiction of the investigative subcommittee shall additionally include any and all matters that may be contained in any superseding indictment related to this same criminal matterThe full Ethics Committee functions much like a grand jury, determining whether there is a credible issue worth exploring. In this case, the full Ethics committee decided that was the case, and then created the investigative subcommittee to inquire about Renzi. Formal ethics inquiries that require an investigative subcommittee are rare in Congress. For instance, in recent years the Ethics Committee only has created investigative subcommittees to examine allegations against former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, R-Texas; Rep. Jim McDermott, D-Wash.; and to handle the Mark Foley matter."The most important responsibility we have as elected officials is to act in an ethical manner in office. As someone who has worked in the Public Integrity division at the Justice Department, my commitment to maintaining the highest ethical standards by public officials is not new. I am confident the committee will work in a bi-partisan manner in this case to determine if the Rules of the House were violated and act swiftly to ensure any violations are dealt with in a manner which makes it clear to everyone that ethical violations will simply not be tolerated in the people's House," stated Congressman McCaulRepublican Leader John Boehner asked McCaul to serve on the committee in 2007. Before his election to Congress Congressman McCaul worked in the Justice Department’s Public Integrity section which oversees federal efforts to combat corruption through the prosecution of elected and appointed public officials at all levels of government. McCaul also served as Deputy Attorney General for Texas under now Senator John Cornyn.Congressman McCaul represents the Tenth Congressional District of Texas which includes all or parts of Harris, Austin, Waller, Washington, Lee, Burleson, Bastrop and Travis counties
03.04.2008	(Washington, DC) – Congressman Michael McCaul will take to the House floor Wednesday evening to urge Democrat leaders to hold an up-or-down vote on a bipartisan, Senate-passed intelligence bill that will help combat terrorism and keep us safe.McCaul will be joined by other House Republicans in speaking out Wednesday evening as part of a nationwide campaign to increase pressure on House Democrat leaders to hold a simple vote on this critical bill. McCaul will speak after the day's votes are concluded during time allocated to the House Republican leadership."We have it within our ability to replace the expiring Protect America Act by passing strong, bipartisan FISA modernization legislation that can be signed into law, and we should do so – consequences of not passing such a measure could place our national security at undue risk. The Intelligence Community needs the Senate's comprehensive bill to provide long-term certainty in their efforts to protect the nation," stated Congressman McCaul.This weekend, our nation began its third week of being left more vulnerable to terrorist attack because House Democratic leaders continue to block the bipartisan Senate-passed modernization bill. After Congress’ first week back in town following a 12 day district work period, Democratic leadership is coming under fire for not scheduling a vote on the critical national security legislation.The legislation, which is supported by a bipartisan majority of the House and was cleared by the Senate three weeks ago by a strong bipartisan vote of 68-29, would give our intelligence officials all the tools they need to keep the American people safe while protecting third party firms against frivolous lawsuits for doing their patriotic duty and assisting our intelligence community after 9/11.Congressman McCaul went on to say, "The simple fact is that Democratic leadership allowed the Protect America Act to expire and then went home putting Americans at home and the war-fighter abroad at great risk."Members scheduled to join Congressman McCaul advocating for House action on the Senate version of the FISA bill are: Representatives Marsha Blackburn, Heather Wilson, Charles Dent. Others are expected to be announced shortly.Please tune in to C-SPAN on Wednesday, March 5th between 8 and 10 pm CST.
02.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Congressman McCaul (R-TX) along with Congresswoman Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), co-founding members of the bi-partisan, Congressional High Tech Caucus, held a joint panel discussion on the Commercialization of Nanotechnology with the Congressional Nanotechnology Caucus.This year, the House is expected to reauthorize the National Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI), a federal R&D program to coordinate the multi-agency efforts in nanoscale science, engineering, and technology. Nanotechnology refers broadly to a field of applied science and technology whose unifying theme is the control of matter on the atomic and molecular scale, normally 1 to 100 nanometers, and the fabrication of devices with critical dimensions that lie within that size range. Nanotechnology has the great potential to improve lives and contribute to economic growth.The panel brings together experts to discuss this emerging field and promote an open dialogue on the topic. The discussion was moderated by Aatish Salvi of the NanoBusiness Alliance. Guest panelists included:Guest Panelists:Robert J. Linhardt, Ph.D., Acting Director, Center for Biotech and InterdisciplinaryStudies, Rensselaer Polytechnic ~InstituteMichael McGarrity, Chief Marketing Officer, NanosphereSanjay K. Banerjee, Ph.D., Cockrell Family Regents Chair, Professor of Electrical andComputer Engineering, Director of the Microelectronics Research Center, University ofTexas, AustinDr. Jeffrey J. Welser, Director, SRC Nanoelectronics Research Initiative, IBM AlmadenResearch CenterEdward Cupoli, Prof. of NanoEconomics, College of Nanoscale, Univ. of Albany-SUNYJames M. Hussey, Chief Executive Officer, NanoInk, Inc.Scott Livingston, Managing Director, Axiom Capital Management Inc.Congressman McCaul is also pleased to announce that the following companies will showcase their nanotech products tomorrow in a second High Tech Caucus event from 9:00 – 11:00 am in 2168 RHOB: Evident Technologies, QD Vision, FEI, Nanosys, Luna Innovations, Reactive Nanotechnologies, NanoInk, Advanced Diamond Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, QuantumSphere, Eikos, NanoFilm, Nantero, Apollo Diamond, Starfire Systems, GE, Boston Scientific, University of Illinois, Nanocor, Wilson Center, Altairnano, Nano-Tex, Batelle, Applied Nanotech, and Qualcomm.Created at the beginning of the 110th Congress, the Congressional High Tech Caucus is a forum in which Members of Congress address the concerns vital to this important industry. The Caucus solicits briefings from industry leaders and experts as well as educators and government officials working on related issues. The Caucus gives industry leaders, university and private researchers and interested groups the ability to share their ideas, by promoting dialogue, to improve our high tech sector, expand job growth and improve American competitiveness.The Caucus has previously held roundtable panel events on: the Patent Reform Act, the "White Spaces" issue before the FCC, and Cybersecurity. Future Caucus events may focus on: the intersection of Green and Technology, Fair Use, and Health IT.Current members of the Congressional High Tech Caucus are:Reps. McCaul, Gillibrand, Bilbray, Issa, Sessions, Carter, Reichert, Wu, E.B. Johnson, Honda, Barton, Hall, Inslee, Kennedy, McCotter, Brady (TX), Kuhl, Mack, Lipinski, G. Davis, Conaway, McHenry, McMorris-Rodgers, Manzullo, Shuster, Dent, Blackburn, Wolf, Cantor, Sullivan, Burgess, Marchant, Camp, Feeney, Rohrabacher, Bono, Kirk, Boren, McNerney, Courtney, Eshoo, Mahoney, Melancon, Shuler, Klein, Yarmuth, Shea-Porter, Matheson, Jackson-Lee, Waxman, Lofgren, Sali, Radonovich, Richardson
02.27.2008	(Oak Ridge North, Texas) —U. S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) and U.S. Congressman Michael T. McCaul (R-Austin) teamed up today to tout the success of a Houston area company that has for the last year generated enough electricity to keep the lights on in suburban Houston neighborhoods and businesses.Biofuels Power Corporation is the first renewable's power plant in the nation generating electricity through biodiesel derived from soy, cottonseed, canola oil and animal fats. Biofuels Power Corporation has been supplying "Green" power to Oak Ridge North through the Center Point grid."Biofuels are one of the many alternative energy options that can help the United States increase our energy independence. The fact that biofuels can be used to generate electricity as well as power our vehicles shows us that these fuels must be part of America’s energy policy," stated Congressman Michael McCaul.Congressman Kevin Brady whose district is home to Biofuels Power Corporation stated, "Houston is the energy capitol of the world. There's no reason why we can't be the green energy capitol of the world, and this project demonstrates that there are affordable and reliable renewable energy solutions to power our homes and vehicles."When providing power to Oak Ridge North one year ago it began with three 1.6 mega watt generators, creating enough power to approximately 40% of Oak Ridge North through the Center Point grid. Recently, the company was able to triple its total energy generation capacity with the addition of a GE Frame 5 Turbine generator. This expansion is expected to deliver over 10 Megawatts into the Entergy power grid that delivers electricity to customers in The Woodlands, Texas.Demonstrating the ability to produce green power on a mass scale is of significant interest to our nation.Our nation’s energy future rests on both traditional and new energy sources. Progress in our ability to produce green power on a large scale is vital to our country. With each step forward in the alternative energy sector, we ensure both our economic future and our energy security as we become less reliant on foreign oil.
02.19.2008	(Laredo, Texas)- Today, U.S. Rep. Michael T. McCaul (R-TX), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cybersecurity and Science and Technology, examined the state of interoperable communications on the U.S.-Mexico Border during a field hearing on the campus of Texas A&M International University."I am pleased to see that Texas is taking the lead in interoperable emergency communications along the U.S.-Mexico border," McCaul said. "It will be important for this Congress to ensure that the appropriate funding is there to fulfill the 9-11 Commission recommendations and to protect Americans from man made or natural disasters."The hearing is the first of a series designed to discuss challenges and best practices for interoperability along both the southern and northern borders. In the 109th Congress, Congressman McCaul served as a Subcommittee Chairman when the Committee on Homeland Security authored and passed the FEMA Reform Act of 2006, which established the Office of Emergency Communications within DHS and strengthened interoperability efforts and capabilities. At the hearing, members discussed cooperation and planning between International, Federal, State and local governments as mandated in the FEMA Reform Act and the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007."Being able to communicate is a basic necessity for personnel on the border. Whether the mission is apprehending those trying to enter this country illegally, responding to man-made or natural emergencies or combating the drug cartels that threaten our communities, interoperability is essential to the security of our borders," McCaul said. "I look forward to seeing the progress of other border communities in this area."
02.13.2008	(Washington, DC) - Yesterday, the Senate passed a broad, bipartisan bill that will help keep America safe by closing the terrorist loophole in our nation’s surveillance laws. This bill strengthens the ability of our intelligence agencies to protect American lives. House Republicans are prepared to join them, President Bush has said he would sign it into law and numerous House Democrats support its passage. However, after a temporary fix, a temporary extension, and almost seven months of delay on long-term FISA modernization, Speaker Pelosi rejected the Senate passed version of the bill, and the request of a coalition of her colleagues and instead, scheduled a pointless vote today on a third temporary extension of FISA. This evening, however, 34 Democrats joined every single voting Republican in defeating the Democratic leadership’s latest attempt to stall passage of a long-term FISA fix.The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) was initially established to provide a process for obtaining a court order to conduct foreign intelligence surveillance within the United States. Due to rapid changes in telecommunications technology, FISA frequently required government officials to obtain a court order to gather information on suspected terrorists and various other foreign intelligence targets located overseas, and communicating with others overseas, but sometimes communicating over networks which run through the US. Key House Democrats have, for months, ignored repeated warnings about the intelligence gap, even while cumbersome FISA restrictions hindered the search for kidnapped American soldiers in Iraq, two of which are still missing in action. While lawyers ensured that the complex requirements of FISA were met, intelligence collection relating to these two kidnapped American soldiers was delayed for more than nine hours. The proposed 21 day extension represents a failure to lead and a failure to protect our country. “Before running for Congress, I worked in the Justice Department on national security wiretaps or FISAs. The intention of the FISA Act was never to apply to agents of a foreign power in a foreign country. It was to apply to agents of a foreign power in this country,” stated Congressman Michael McCaulCongressman McCaul went on to say, “We have it within our ability to replace the expiring Protect America Act by passing strong, bipartisan FISA modernization legislation that can be signed into law, and we should do so – consequences of not passing such a measure could place our national security at undue risk. The Intelligence Community needs the Senate's comprehensive bill to provide long-term certainty in their efforts to protect the nation.”
02.09.2008	(Washington, DC) - On Thursday, the House passed a slightly modified version of the economic stimulus package. "While this compromise package is not perfect, it will be putting money back in the pockets of taxpayers and giving employers incentives to create new jobs and grow our economy," said Congressman Michael McCaul.The President has indicated that he will sign the emergency plan that was passed by the House Thursday evening after Senate leaders ended a drawn-out stalemate over the bill. The plan allows for a maximum rebate of up to $600 for singles and $1,200 for married couples, including disabled veterans and the elderly, plus an additional $300 per child. A valid Social Security number would be required for each citizen receiving the base payment and for each child claiming the $300 bonus. The measure also includes steps to boost the ailing housing market by temporarily raising the limit on Federal Housing Administration loans."I’m glad Congress was able to put partisan politics aside to pass a bill that will provide tax rebates to the hard-working American families that drive our economy," stated McCaul.
01.22.2008	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) delivered the clear message to the President of Mexico that his country's Northern border with the US must be secured. During the past two days Congressman McCaul, along with other Members of the House Committee on Homeland Security, participated in a bi-partisan, fact-finding mission to Mexico and met with high ranking officials, including President Felipe Calderon. McCaul was encouraged to hear directly from President Calderon that he had sent 30,000 troops to the US-Mexico border to help combat the increasingly powerful drug cartels. McCaul stated, "We must eradicate the root cause of the problem and that is the drug cartels. They are in control of numerous corridors to the US through which they transport not only drugs and illegal immigrants, but also potential terrorist seeking to harm the US.""I went to Mexico with one goal in mind: To tell President Calderon that the days of an uncontrolled, unsecured Mexican border must end," further stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "I presented him with a copy of my report, "A Line in the Sand" which clearly shows the deadly consequences of Mexican drug cartels controlling much of Northern Mexico and would-be terrorists coming across the border into America. It was a good meeting, and I am confident he understands the need for better coordination between our respective militaries, intelligence services and law enforcement agencies to secure the US-Mexico border. Along with President Calderon, McCaul met with Mexico’s Attorney General and Director of Homeland Security and took the opportunity to discuss ways Mexico could work with the United States to gain operational control of both sides of the border. In Matamoras, the Mexican border city which is the base of operations for the powerful "Gulf Cartel" and the location of numerous gun battles and assassinations related to drug cartel turf wars, McCaul stated, "There are ways our nations can cooperate and gain operational control of both sides of the border, and if they want help in training their troops to do so, I think the U.S. can help them. However, if Mexico takes any American assistance, it better be prepared to show us they’re making real progress," stated McCaul.Congressman McCaul made it clear that he will personally be checking back with those he met with to see the improvements Mexico is making towards gaining operational control of its borders.
12.20.2007	(Washington, D.C.)- The Texas Tenth Congressional District is getting some badly needed funding for a variety of quality programs aimed at doing everything from funding university research and law enforcement to strengthening national security and helping community based programs.Congressman Michael McCaul announced that his work to secure funding for more than a dozen programs in the Texas Tenth was successful."It is my job to make sure the priorities of my district are heard loud and clear by my colleagues in Washington," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "I am pleased that so many charities, community oriented programs and emergency responders will now be receiving the federal support they need to help those they serve.The groups receiving federal funds include:• CureSearch, an organization which will use $200 thousand to help the Children’s Oncology Group and Childhood Cancer Research Network & Database.• The Harris County Sheriffs Office which will use more than $2.3 million to update and outfit their patrol cars with the latest in communication technology.• The Austin Police Department which will use more than $210 thousand dollars to increase its use of technology.• The Texas Department of Transportation will use $250 thousand to begin work on the 290/36 interchange in Brenham.• The City of Austin which will use $250 thousand to help Austin make traffic management more effective.• The City of Austin will use $188 thousand from a Department of Justice Grant to fund anti-drug campaigns and programs to help people stay off illegal drugs.• The University of Texas which will use $900 thousand for its Research Imaging Center.• The University of Texas which will use $1.5 million to develop High Optempo Performance Soldier Training.• The University of Texas will use $1.6 million to develop National Initiative for Applications of Multifunctional Materials.• The HDL Research Lab, located in Brenham will use $6.8 million to aid in the development of the Next Generation Phalanx, an anti-missile defense system used by the United States Navy.• Zebra Imaging in Austin which will use $1.6 million to develop an Enhanced Holographic Imager for soldiers in conflict.• Applied Physical Electronics in Austin which will use $2.4 million to develop defenses against improvised explosive devices (IED’s) for America’s soldiers• Communities in Schools program in Austin which will use $195 thousand to help prevent high school students from dropping out of school.• Cap Metro in Austin will use $250 thousand to help purchase Urban Commuter Rail Circulator Vehicles• Huston-Tillotson University which will use more than $240 thousand to further develop its Math and Science Success Center.• The Houston Zoo will use $300 thousand to implement an educational system which produces and broadcasts educational television shows to for children with cancer at Texas Children’s Hospital.• Prairie View A&M University will use $112 thousand for dairy and meat research.
12.18.2007	(Washington, D.C.)- America’s researchers will soon have the ability to find new ways to power the nation and begin to make real progress on gaining energy independence from foreign oil.On Tuesday Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) voted and supported an energy bill which furthers America’s research into alternative energies. Congressman McCaul’s vote to support the legislation came after the United States Senate took out serious tax increases against American’s domestic energy producers."This was a bad bill when it came out of the House last week," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "The House legislation contained significant penalties to be leveled against our nation’s own energy producers, burdensome taxes which would have been passed on to American consumers and that simply did not make sense. I worked with Texas Senators Cornyn and Hutchison to make sure the Senate removed these taxing provisions and am pleased this bill now focuses on energy and not taking more money out of our wallets."H.R. 6, The Energy Independence and Security Act, funds research and development priorities in areas such as hydrogen and geothermal energy, and promotes research and development into next generation energy resources such as solar, wind, geothermal, and marine energy. The legislation also establishes a much-needed energy storage research and development program to find ways to make renewable energies, such as wind and solar, more effective. The bill also approves research and development into advanced biofuels."Ultimately, this bill could have done so much more to help America’s domestic energy producers with tax cuts and less regulation," stated Congressman McCaul. He went on to say, "This bill gets the ball rolling on seeking new ways to keep American society moving. Next year, I hope Democrats will work with us Republicans to pass a more comprehensive energy bill which truly focuses on current domestic energy production."
12.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – From failing our soldiers fighting the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan to failing tens of millions of middle class Americans, the Democratic leaders in the United States House of Representatives have failed America.Today Congressman Michael McCaul of Texas strongly urged the Democratic leaders to stop playing politics and trying to appease the left wing of its party and work with Republicans to put American families first."Democrats can’t seem to do the right thing in the House," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "American families continue to feel the pinch of the rising costs of living, while Congress continues to ignore the issues Americans care about most. What’s most concerning is how little the Democrats have actually done this year."Congress still has a year’s worth of priorities to tackle in the two weeks before Christmas. This comes after wasting 11 months playing politics, tying our military leader’s hands all while our troops remain in harm’s way in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Democratic leaders in the House have also left millions of middle class Americans without safety from the Alternative Minimum Tax and thus, possibly stuck having to pay billions in taxes.It is time to complete work on key economic and national security priorities. The laundry list of unfinished congressional business is long and includes legislation to fund our troops and veterans without political gimmicks, fiscally-responsible spending bills which keep America on track to balance the budget without raising taxes, protecting 23 million taxpayers from the onerous Alternative Minimum Tax, and making the Protect America Act permanent to keep our country safe."Unfortunately, with all of this important work still left unfinished, not one of these priorities has made its way onto the House schedule this week. This Congress already has made its mark as one of the most-politicized and least-accomplished in history. If the Majority hopes to salvage the remaining weeks of the legislative year, it’s time for the Democratic leadership to finally reach out to Republicans and work in a bipartisan way to address these priorities on behalf of the American people," stated McCaul.Congressman McCaul and his fellow Republicans continue offering common sense legislation which benefits the middle class, secures America’s borders, cuts taxes and make those cuts permanent and funds America’s troops in Iraq and Afghanistan without strings attached.
12.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. – From failing our soldiers fighting the war on terror in Iraq and Afghanistan to failing tens of millions of middle class Americans, the Democratic leaders in the United States House of Representatives have failed America.Today Congressman Michael McCaul of Texas strongly urged the Democratic leaders to stop playing politics and trying to appease the left wing of its party and work with Republicans to put American families first."Democrats can’t seem to do the right thing in the House," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "American families continue to feel the pinch of the rising costs of living, while Congress continues to ignore the issues Americans care about most. What’s most concerning is how little the Democrats have actually done this year."Congress still has a year’s worth of priorities to tackle in the two weeks before Christmas. This comes after wasting 11 months playing politics, tying our military leader’s hands all while our troops remain in harm’s way in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Democratic leaders in the House have also left millions of middle class Americans without safety from the Alternative Minimum Tax and thus, possibly stuck having to pay billions in taxes.It is time to complete work on key economic and national security priorities. The laundry list of unfinished congressional business is long and includes legislation to fund our troops and veterans without political gimmicks, fiscally-responsible spending bills which keep America on track to balance the budget without raising taxes, protecting 23 million taxpayers from the onerous Alternative Minimum Tax, and making the Protect America Act permanent to keep our country safe."Unfortunately, with all of this important work still left unfinished, not one of these priorities has made its way onto the House schedule this week. This Congress already has made its mark as one of the most-politicized and least-accomplished in history. If the Majority hopes to salvage the remaining weeks of the legislative year, it’s time for the Democratic leadership to finally reach out to Republicans and work in a bipartisan way to address these priorities on behalf of the American people," stated McCaul.Congressman McCaul and his fellow Republicans continue offering common sense legislation which benefits the middle class, secures America’s borders, cuts taxes and make those cuts permanent and funds America’s troops in Iraq and Afghanistan without strings attached.
12.05.2007	(Washington, D.C.)- Children miss fewer school days due to illness and achieve higher academic performance in environmentally healthier schools and a new Congressional effort is now officially underway to make sure America’s children are learning in the safest and most effective environments possible.On Wednesday, December 5, Congressman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) held the first meeting of the Green Schools Caucus. The goal of this bipartisan working group is to help make America’s schools environmentally safe and thus provide a healthier classroom for all school aged children."It’s real simple. If we expect our children to take full advantage of an American education, we owe it to them to provide the safest and most environmentally sound schools and classrooms available," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "Today, there are American schools which are harmful to our children. That is unacceptable."The Green Schools Caucus is made up of both Republicans and Democrats and is adding more Members of Congress everyday. The group is chaired by Congressmen Michael McCaul of Texas, Jim Matheson of Utah and Congresswoman Darlene Hooley of Oregon.During the kickoff event, Texas architect Stan Haas, who designed the Pickle Elementary School in Austin, spoke about the need to continue building new schools which strongly consider both student health and the environment during the design phase."Everyday we are learning new and better ways to provide healthier classrooms which further promote learning in American schools," stated Stan Haas. Haas went on to say, "This new caucus can help make American students learn in a more effective and efficient manner."The Green Schools Caucus will take information provided at the group’s first event begin working on legislation to further promote safer schools.
12.04.2007	Today, Congressman Michael McCaul released the following statement concerning Jose Compean’s and Ignacio Ramos’ appeal before the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals."All reasonable Americans believe these two men should immediately be released from prison and arrive home in time to be with their families for Christmas. Along with several of my colleagues, I have sent letters to the President asking that he immediately commute Ramos and Compean’s sentences and then pardon their convictions.I firmly agree that prosecutors, as the judges of the 5th Circuit Court alluded to, "overreacted" in prosecuting this case and that it should have been handled as an administrative issue from the start.During today’s hearing Judge Patrick Higginbotham said the fact that Aldrete made several attempts to smuggle drugs across the border "strikes me as very relevant." I agree with Judge Higginbotham. The Judge and prosecution should have allowed the jurors to know that information. The fact that the court did not allow the information to be heard by jurors was a serious legal error by the district court.In my numerous letters to the President I have always made it clear that since this case did not go through an administrative process, as it should have, and that lacking a pardon, it should go through the appeals process where the mistakes of the original trial could be rectified and where justice would prevail. Based on the positive statements from two of the three judges today, I believe the judicial process is now working."
11.08.2007	Washington, DC − Congressman Lamar Smith (TX−21), Congressman John Carter (TX–31) and Congressman Michael McCaul (TX–10) today announced that they have obtained $2.4 million to help fund a defense project in Austin. The funds were included in the Defense Appropriations Bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives.The funds would go to Applied Physical Electronics to continue the development of systems and technology to alleviate terrorist roadside bombs."Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and vehicle bombs pose threats to our troops overseas each day," emphasized Congressman Smith. "This funding would help develop solutions to keep our troops safe, improve homeland security and strengthen our military.""It was a privilege for me to work with Mr. Smith and Mr. McCaul to secure this funding that will allow Applied Physical Electronics to continue the development of systems to moderate terrorist activities and enhance our nation’s defense," Representative Carter said. "We must remain committed to providing our military with the tools and resources they need to successfully serve and protect America.""We are extremely pleased with the funding in the 08 defense appropriations conference report and grateful to Congressmen Smith, Carter and McCaul and their staffs for their hard work in making this happen. APE will use this money, in partnership with researchers at the University of Texas at Austin, to advance and field the technology our company is developing to detect and defeat the Improvised Explosive Devices that are killing and injuring so many of our soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan," said Jon Mayes, CEO of Applied Physical Electronics, L.C.The bill will now head to the Senate floor for consideration and then onto the President.
10.30.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), along with Congressmen Jim Langevin (D-RI) and Michael McCaul (R-TX), today announced a bipartisan Commission on Cyber Security for the 44th Presidency – the administration that will take office in January 2009. This nonpartisan Commission will develop recommendations for a comprehensive strategy for organizing and prioritizing efforts to secure America’s computer networks and critical infrastructure.The Commission consists of 31 leading experts in the field of cyber security, who bring extensive government experience and knowledge of the cyber environment. Langevin Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cyber Security and Science and Technology and McCaul, Ranking Member on the Subcommittee, along with Scott Charney, corporate vice president for trustworthy computing at Microsoft and retired Navy Admiral Bobby Inman, Lyndon B. Johnson National Policy Chair at the University of Texas at Austin will co-chair the Commission."I commend CSIS for sponsoring this Commission. I believe the government, across all levels, is too complacent when it comes to protecting their digital assets and this needs to change," said Langevin, chair of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cyber Security and Science and Technology. "I look forward to working with the Commission to present a comprehensive report to our next president.""The next President and their administration must be prepared to hit the ground and protect America’s cyber networks," stated Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emerging Threats, Cyber Security and Science and Technology. He went on to say, "As it stands now this nation is severely challenged by current cyber attacks and I look forward to working with the commission to make sure the 44th President of the United States is well prepared to manage and, more importantly, prevent these attacks."The Commission on Cyber Security for the 44th Presidency will assess current and future threats, review authorities, policies, and government organization for cyber security, and evaluate requirements for critical infrastructure protection. Its agenda will include such issues as infrastructure protection, software assurance, and information security initiatives in the both public and the private sectors. The final product would be a package of recommendations to improve America’s cyber security. The Commission will complete its work by December 2008."As commerce and online communication have flourished, so have the challenges to cyber security. It is imperative that industry and government work together to take the steps necessary to secure the Internet and critical infrastructures," said Charney. "We need a holistic approach that includes technology, policy, vigilance in the public and private sectors, and law enforcement. I look forward to working with CSIS, my co-chairs, and the members of the Commission to provide recommendations to the next President on improving cyber security.""Cyber Security is a critical challenge facing the country in the years ahead," said Inman.For more information visit https://www.csis.org/cybersecurity.
09.11.2007	(Washington, D.C.)- America’s top general and top diplomat in Iraq have reported the status of their missions to Congress. The overall findings clearly show progress being made towards ending sectarian violence and capturing or killing the terrorists causing death and destruction in Iraq.This news comes after General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker testified before the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees. Congressman Michael McCaul serves as a Member on the Foreign Affairs Committee and listened to the more than six hours of testimony by General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker.“After hearing from the General and Ambassador, no one can deny the positive advances being made in Iraq by America’s armed forces. It is my hope that with these advances we will soon see some of our troops come home,” stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, “America must continue to increase political and diplomatic efforts to achieve a sustainable resolution on the ground in Iraq, as well as stability in the region. It is time to move forward with the Iraq Study Group recommendations.”Congressman McCaul also took an opportunity to comment on the attacks on General Petraeus by liberal groups saying, “General Petraeus risks his life everyday to help achieve a viable peace in Iraq. For decades he has served our nation and defended freedom. These liberal groups and those who support them should be ashamed and immediately apologize for their attack on this military man who has dedicated his life to protecting our nation.”Congressman McCaul is planning another trip to Iraq in the future to further verify the successes of the Iraqi government.
08.03.2007	(Washington, D.C.) – On Thursday night, Republicans won a vote to prohibit illegal immigrants from receiving federally funded welfare payments, only to have victory snatched away when Democrats changed the final vote.The amendment to the Agriculture spending bill, which would have prohibited illegal immigrants from receiving federally funded benefits, was originally passed by a vote of 215 to 213. Incredibly, after the vote officially ended the Democrats overturned this result—defying 218 years of precedent—and reopened the vote. The motion was then defeated by a vote of 212 to 216.In response to this blatant violation of House rules, Congressman McCaul and other fellow Republican colleagues left the floor in protest."This was not only a procedural debacle but it goes to show that the Majority party will do whatever is necessary to further their political agenda. In order to appease their special interests, they changed the House votes to give illegal immigrants benefits at the taxpayer’s expense," stated Congressman Michael McCaul.The agriculture spending bill is now awaiting action in the Senate.
07.11.2007	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Texas Congressman Michael McCaul welcomed the government’s announcement that this year’s federal budget deficit will be nearly $40 billion lower than originally projected, which means that the deficit is less than half of what it was just three years ago. Reports indicated that the drop can be credited to healthy growth in the economy."Today’s news is just further evidence of what Republican tax relief has done to keep our economy growing," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "As a result of Republican pro-growth policies, taxpayers have been able to keep more of their own money while tax revenues have gone up. This is a good day for the American taxpayer."The President and the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) announced the new figures as part of a midyear fiscal review. Originally projected to be $244 billion, the OMB says the deficit will come in at about $205 billion.McCaul cautioned, however, that continued vigilance on behalf of taxpayers is required if we are going to achieve our goal of balancing the federal budget by 2012: "Republicans believe fiscal responsibility is a requirement, not a luxury. That is why we will continue to hold the line on spending, reject Democrat attempts to raise taxes, and offer to work with Democrats to address runaway entitlement spending."Last week, the government announced that 123,000 jobs were created in June. Our economy has now added jobs for 46 straight months, and the unemployment rate remains low at 4.5 percent.
06.13.2007	(Austin, Texas)- Today, Texas Congressman Michael McCaul came out strongly against the way Democratic leaders in the House are spending taxpayer’s money."They’re taking the hard earned money of Americans and not allowing anyone to see how they are spending it, specifically within the earmarking process," stated Congressman McCaul. He added, "Sunlight is the best disinfectant and there’s absolutely no sunshine on any of these earmarks."Earmarks are legislation which direct tax dollars to be spent on specific projects. Typically, Members of Congress use earmarks to direct tax dollars into their own districts, sometimes to fund questionable projects which do not benefit the nation, like the, "bridge to nowhere".The Chairman of the Appropriation’s Committee, David Obey, who at the start of the year promised an open and transparent earmarking process, has now come out and said he will not allow a debate on earmarks to go forward until it is too late for public and Congressional scrutiny."In this case, one man in the Congress will decide how the nation’s taxes will be spent, and that sounds more like a monarchy than a democracy" stated McCaul. He went on to say, ""These earmarks will be airdropped in the darkness of night without any scrutiny and that is unacceptable."McCaul joined fellow Republicans in calling for the House to implement the earmarking rules they put in place in 2006. Those policies, for the first time, allowed Members to openly challenge earmarks on the House floor, required all earmarks be publicly disclosed and allowed the nation to see who is sponsoring the proposed earmarks.As a former federal prosecutor in the Public Integrity Section of the Justice Department, Congressman McCaul has taken every opportunity to vote for a more transparent and open earmarking process and will continue to do so. McCaul is also a Member of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, also known as the Ethics Committee.
05.21.2007	(Austin, Texas)- Members of the United States Senate have announced a deal to allow more than 12 million illegal immigrants, already in the United States, to start down a path to citizenship and be granted amnesty for their border crossing crimes. Tenth Congressional District Congressman Michael McCaul reacted to the deal, in its current form, with strong disagreement."As the Fort Dix terror plot demonstrated last week, illegal immigration is clearly a homeland security issue," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "Granting amnesty rewards lawbreakers and legalizes millions of criminals and terror suspects who are currently in the U.S. illegally, making it that much easier for them to operate within our society undetected. The Senate’s amnesty proposal will only serve to weaken the security of our homeland."The Senate proposal, which is not in final form, calls for illegal immigrants to receive a visa, pay a fine and therefore, within 8 years, receive full citizenship with all the privileges which come with being a citizen of the United States. The proposal also allows for in-state tuition and prevailing wages for illegal immigrants. And while the legislation does call for border security, it is not the first priority."Amnesty should not be a consideration for illegal immigrants in anyway. But, for the Senate to put it before border security shows a lack of priorities," stated McCaul. He went on to say, "I strongly and simply oppose the measure in its current form."
03.15.2007	Congressman Michael McCaul invites area high school students interested in attending a military service academy to an "Academy Day" event Sunday, April 15.The event will be held from 2:00-4:00 p.m. in the Beto Academic Center Lecture Hall at Concordia University, 3400 IH 35 North in Austin.Midshipmen and cadets from the U.S. Naval Academy, Military Academy, Air Force Academy, Coast Guard Academy and Merchant Marine Academy will be on hand to meet with prospective students and their families. In addition, Academy Liaison Officers will be available.The "Academy Day" program will feature information about the nomination process involved in securing academy appointments.Congressional nominations are required for appointment to a U.S. service academy. Students who reside in the 10th Congressional District are encouraged to contact Congressman McCaul’s Austin district office at (512) 473-2357 for an application packet in May of their junior year of high school.Congressional staff will be in attendance to assist and answer any questions.
02.06.2007	(Washington, D.C.) – The Republican Conference has selected Congressman Michael McCaul to serve on the United States House of Representatives Ethics Committee."I am honored to accept this position," stated McCaul. He went on to say, "Americans everywhere have made it clear that they want integrity restored to this institution and its Members to act more ethically. All of us in Congress should be held to a higher standard than the general public and I will work to hold all Members to that higher standard as this committee has never been more relevant than it is today."The House Ethics Committee is charged with investigating all alleged violations of the Code of Official Conduct. These allegations include but are not limited to ethical and criminal complaints made against fellow Members.Republican Leader John Boehner asked McCaul to serve on the committee for specific reasons."This is one of the most difficult assignments in the House, but also one of the most important. I selected Michael for the job because I know he holds himself, his staff and his colleagues to the high ethical standards Americans expect from their elected officials. He makes an excellent and very qualified new addition to the House Ethics Committee," stated Republican Leader John Boehner."Before his election to Congress Congressman McCaul worked in the Justice Department’s Public Integrity section which oversees federal efforts to combat corruption through the prosecution of elected and appointed public officials at all levels of government. McCaul also served as Deputy Attorney General for Texas under now Senator John Cornyn.Congressman McCaul represents the Tenth Congressional District of Texas which includes all or parts of Harris, Austin, Waller, Washington, Lee, Burleson, Bastrop and Travis counties.
01.08.2007	(Washington, D.C.) – The Tenth Congressional District of Texas is once again officially represented by Congressman Michael McCaul. On Thursday McCaul took his five children onto the House floor to take the oath of his office. McCaul’s wife Linda looked on from the gallery above. House rules do not permit spouses of Members onto the floor."It is an honor to represent the people of the Texas Tenth in the U.S. House of Representatives," stated McCaul. He went on to say, "For the second time the constituents of the Texas Tenth have put their trust and faith in me to do right by them in Washington and that’s exactly what I plan to do."McCaul comes off a successful first term representing his district. Within 9 months of taking office during this first term he was appointed Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Investigations. He used his gavel to make America’s Southwest Border more secure and bring attention to the implications an unsecured border could have on national security."Congress must continue doing everything it can to secure the border and therefore increase our national security. As it relates to our economy the tax cuts implemented in the 109th Congress have proven overwhelmingly beneficial to Americans and their wallets and we need to work towards extending those tax cuts."Congressman Michael McCaul represents all or part of 8 counties in Texas including Harris, Austin, Waller, Washington, Lee, Burleson, Bastrop and Travis.
09.29.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - In a vote which takes aim at ending the waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayer funds by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the United States House of Representatives passed FEMA reform legislation, implementing laws mandating federal workers account for every cent of taxpayer money spent during and after a natural disaster."FEMA officials allowed more than $1.5 billion dollars of taxpayer money to go wasted in the wakes of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita," stated Congressman Michael McCaul. He went on to say, "It was the worst example of government waste of taxpayer funds I have ever seen. Hopefully, with this law on the books, Americans will be protected from this kind of waste, fraud and abuse of their tax dollars."Last June, McCaul, as Chairman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Investigations, held a hearing investigating the reports of significant waste, fraud and abuse of taxpayer dollars doled out by FEMA in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita."We heard how FEMA sent taxpayer money to prisoners in jail because government officials did not verify who was receiving the money. We heard about people who should have used their FEMA checks for rent or to find a job, but instead used it to buy champagne at Hooters. In the end it was overwhelmingly apparent that FEMA wasn’t paying attention to who it was sending money to or how much was being spent," stated McCaul.Friday, McCaul and xxxx fellow Members of the House passed the Homeland Appropriations bill which, among other things, demands FEMA develop and maintain proper internal management controls to prevent and detect fraud, waste, and abuse. These controls will work to collect information on eligible recipients; verify the identity and address of recipients of disaster assistance before sending any money to minimize the risk of making duplicative payments or payments for fraudulent claims; and provides instructions to recipients of disaster assistance regarding the proper use of any such funding."I thank Chairman McCaul for his hard work and leadership on this issue," said Homeland Security Chairman Peter King (R-NY). "Without him, it wouldn't have been possible."
08.17.2006	(Houston, Texas) – Amid videos showing fierce gun battles and testimony explaining the inhuman violence along America’s Southwest Border, Congressman Michael McCaul lead a Congressional Panel Wednesday in efforts to examine ways to secure the U.S. Border with Mexico."We’re trying to open America’s eyes to the violence and overall negative consequences which come with an uncontrolled border," stated Congressman Michael McCaul who chaired the hearing. He went on to say, "We are a nation of immigrants, but we are also a nation of laws. Those who break our laws should not be rewarded."Eighteen witnesses testified before Chairman McCaul’s Subcommittee on Investigations including Texas’ Director of Homeland Security, Steve McCraw, border sheriffs, Harris County Judge Robert Eckels and victims of crimes committed by those in America illegally. One of the victims was Carrie Ruiz, the mother of a 17 year old girl brutally murdered by illegal immigrants. Ruiz's daughter was stabbed more than 39 times after she helped authorities identify a gang member."All you hear is they are so good for the economy," said Mrs. Ruiz of illegal immigrants. "What about those who commit violent crimes? Not all of them are here to get a job and support their families. We need to do something about it."In response Congressman McCaul stated, "The first duty of the U.S. government is to protect and defend its citizens. Our borders cannot become a gateway for criminal enterprise, drug trafficking and terrorist activity if we are to prevent more people like Mrs. Ruiz from becoming victims of crime."Earlier this year the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 4437, legislation which makes great strides in securing America’s borders. Wednesday’s hearing, chaired by McCaul, as well as several others occurring throughout the country are meant to shore up support for the House bill and urge the Senate to pass it."The House bill, which I voted for and fully support, will go a long way towards making our borders more secure and providing greater safety for our nation," stated McCaul. He went on to say, "Once our borders are secure, than our nation can have a reasonable discussion about a guest worker program, but first we must stop the flow of illegal immigrants into our nation and control our borders."
06.16.2006	(Washington, D.C.) - Congressman Michael McCaul, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Investigations for the Homeland Security Committee, worked with federal investigators for the last six months to uncover some of the worst waste, fraud and abuse of federal taxpayer funds in U.S. history.To date, as a result of this investigation more than 7,000 cases have been referred to the Justice Department for prosecution, which will work to deter fraud in the future."In all my years as a federal prosecutor and now as a Member of Congress, I have never heard of such criminal behavior as the kind committed in the wakes of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita," stated McCaul. He went on to say, "This is a bad day for the hard working American taxpayer, who has been fleeced by the actions of these criminals and by the lack of FEMA fraud prevention."On Wednesday, McCaul held a hearing in his subcommittee to expose the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s lack of controls and verification technology as FEMA officials handed out billions of dollars to those who fraudulently applied for assistance after these disasters."Basically, if you had access to a phone, that’s all you needed," stated McCaul. "It seems all you had to do was call the FEMA hotline, tell them you needed money and they gave it to you. There was no accountability or verification as to where the money went or who got it."According to a Government Accountability Office (GAO) report, these lack of controls on the disbursement of federal taxpayer funds led to more than $1 billion that should never have been given out by FEMA. Unfortunately, the worst is possibly waiting to be uncovered as these figures represent fraud estimates for only one portion of the FEMA benefits that were incorrectly distributed.Some of the money which was supposed to be spent helping people recover from the hurricanes went, instead, to the following:• $10.8 million to prisoners who called requesting hurricane assistance from jail,• vacations to Orlando and Hawaii,• Caribbean cruises,• adult entertainment,• people who listed their address as a cemetery,• people who listed their damaged property address as a post office box,• a down payment on a home in Georgia.Congressman McCaul was not satisfied with how the FEMA representative at the hearing answered his questions as to how the agency could allow such criminal behavior to occur with taxpayer money."The FEMA representative could not give me or any other Member at the hearing a straight answer," said McCaul.The Chairman said he hopes to have more hearings on this issue and told members of the media that, "If FEMA doesn’t fix the problems highlighted at my hearings, I’ll fix them with legislation I’m already working on in Congress."As we enter into another hurricane season, Congressman McCaul has legislation ready that will address the egregious flaws in FEMA’s disaster assistance registration process, and will seek to prevent these mistakes from happening in the future."Our job is not just to expose the problems, but make sure those problems don’t occur again," said McCaul.
