03.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored bipartisan legislation to eliminate the five-month waiting period before ALS patients can receive the Social Security Disability Insurance benefits they earned by contributing to Social Security. The ALS Disability Insurance Access Act introduced by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) would build on previous steps by Congress and the Social Security Administration to accommodate the difficult prognosis for those diagnosed with ALS. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as ALS or Lou Gehrig’s disease, is a neurodegenerative disease affecting the ability of the brain to control muscle movements. Individuals with ALS progressively lose the ability to speak, walk, and breathe. The intended purpose of a five-month waiting period is to allow temporary conditions to reverse. However, there is currently no cure or treatment to halt or undo the effects of ALS, and some ALS patients lose their fight with the disease before ever receiving benefits. The ALS Disability Insurance Access Act would help alleviate some of the financial hardship that accompanies an ALS diagnosis, and support those living with ALS and their families. “Those tragically diagnosed with ALS face a battle that has no cure or treatment, and it is often one that families and friends have to help bear. Requiring patients to wait five months to receive benefits is immoral and we need to help these families with the financial hardship that comes with a diagnosis,” said Senator Tillis. “This commonsense legislation is the least we can do for patients and families, and I hope we can pass this legislation out of Congress and send it to the President soon.” “I am proud to co-sponsor this bill to eliminate the waiting period for those battling ALS,” said Senator Whitehouse. “It takes tremendous courage from patients, family members, and friends to cope with an ALS diagnosis. I hope that as a simple act of humanity we can set aside bureaucratic considerations and allow Americans who face the extraordinary blow of this diagnosis to immediately receive the benefits they have earned.” “ALS is a progressive and disabling disease for which there is no cure. Those who suffer from this terrible disease endure enough pain, and they shouldn’t be subject to the usual waiting period for disability benefits—especially given their tragically short life expectancy,” said Cotton. The companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives is cosponsored by 89 Members. ###
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored bipartisan legislation to combat the high rate of suicide among members of the National Guard and Reserve. Currently, members of the National Guard and Reserves undergo annual health assessments to identify medical issues that could impact their ability to deploy, but any follow-up care must almost always be pursued at their own expense. The bipartisan Care and Readiness Enhancement (CARE) for Reservists Act introduced by Jon Tester (D-MT) and Jerry Moran (R-KS) would improve Guardsmen and Reservists’ access to consistent mental health care, regardless of their deployment status. “The rate of suicide among our servicemembers is unacceptable and it is vital that Congress continues to take steps to combat this epidemic,” said Senator Tillis. “We need to ensure that members of the Armed Services, including the National Guard and Reserve, have access to the mental health care services they need. This bipartisan legislation will expand access to our servicemember and ensure they have the treatment regardless of deployment status.” The CARE for Reservists Act allows the Defense Department to fund needed behavioral or mental health care, regardless of whether that reservist is within his or her pre-deployment window or has never deployed at all. Their bill also allows members of the Guard and Reserve to access Vet Centers for mental health screening and counseling, employment assessments, education training, and other services to help them return to civilian life. The bipartisan bill received strong support from the National Guard and Reserve community. "Suicides in the National Guard and Reserve continue to be a major concern," said Roy Robinson, Brigadier General US Army (Ret.), President of the National Guard Association of the United States. "Senator Tester's bill would utilize these critical Vet Centers in helping our members and their families in need of confidential counseling services at over 300 community based locations nationwide. The bill would also authorize the Defense Department to address the mental health and behavioral conditions of the National Guard and Reserve to ensure we are not neglecting the medical readiness and force protection needs of this vital part of the total force." “The Citizen Soldiers of the National Guard are willing to sacrifice everything for their country but when they return from serving either domestically or abroad they are not given the same support that we offer other members of the armed forces,” said Enlisted Association of the National Guard of United States Executive Director Frank Yoakum. “The CARE for Reservists Act of 2019 is vital in assuring that the men and women of the National Guard have all the support and care that they have earned.” The CARE For Reservists Act is also cosponsored by Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WS), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Joe Manchin (D-WV), and Bernie Sanders (I-VT). Text of the CARE For Reservists Act can be found online HERE. ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored the bipartisan Honoring American Veterans in Extreme Need (HAVEN) Act this week to protect the economic security and well-being of veterans and their families who rely on disability benefits and may be experiencing financial hardship. Under current bankruptcy law, disability benefits paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Department of Defense (DoD) are included in the calculation of a debtor’s disposable income, increasing the portion of the debtor’s income that is subject to the reach of creditors. By contrast, bankruptcy law explicitly exempts Social Security disability benefits from this calculation. To remove this unequal treatment among various disability benefits, the HAVEN Act would exclude VA and DoD disability payments made to veterans or their dependent survivors from the monthly income calculation used for bankruptcy means tests. “Disabled veterans risked their lives to protect our nation, and the least we can do is protect their disability benefits and economic security,” said Senator Tillis. “Current bankruptcy law unfairly stacks the deck against disabled veterans, allowing creditors to chip away at the disability benefits they need and deserve. I’m proud to co-sponsor the bipartisan HAVEN Act, which fixes the problem with existing law to ensure we are taking care of disabled veterans who are facing financial challenges.” The HAVEN Act complements recent congressional efforts to combat servicemember and veteran mental health issues, addiction, suicide, poverty, and homelessness – all of which are exacerbated by financial hardship. It is supported by the American Bankruptcy Institute, American College of Bankruptcy, The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Wounded Warrior Project, Association of the United States Army, Association of the United States Navy, Retired Enlisted Association, Society of Military Widows, Veterans for Common Sense, and the U.S Army Warrant Officers Association. ###
03.07.2019	Tillis Toured Homes at Fort Bragg with Secretary of the Army Last Week WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) attended a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing and discussed issues military families are facing with on-base military housing. Last week, Senator Tillis toured homes on Fort Bragg with Secretary of the Army Mark Esper and participated in a listening session with military families. Watch Senator Tillis’ full comments HERE. Tillis on touring military housing at Ft. Bragg: “I want to thank Secretary Esper for coming down to Fort Bragg with me last Friday and touring houses that are in unacceptable housing conditions. I am not going to place blame on any one link in the chain, the housing providers are at fault, the command is at fault, the Department is at fault, and Congress is at fault for taking their eye off this ball. If you are in North Carolina and living in military housing with unacceptable conditions and have not gotten the right reaction from your command, call my office and I guarantee it will move to the top of the pile.” Tillis on housing providers issuing NDAs to military families: “It’s been brought to my attention that some housing providers go to young people in the military and urge them to sign a non-disclosure agreement in exchange for a bonus or payment if they don’t bring up housing issues. I want a commitment to rescind every one that has been signed. If this is a widespread practice among the housing providers, they better have a good reason for having someone sign it. I have been a landlord before and it makes no sense to me why I would have someone sign away their right to live in adequate living conditions. If any of these NDAs are being enforced, I want them rescinded in the next 30 days, and if one of the housing providers refuse, I want them to come to me and explain why it makes sense and why it is for the good of the tenant.” Tillis on making this issue a top priority: “All the commanders have responded in the way I have expected because of the great leaders you are. I can’t imagine any of you would have knowingly allowed this to happen and persist, but now I expect each of you to be at the tip of the spear to fix it. I hope everyone in command is in touch with the folks they are supposed to take care and applaud people who come forward in these communities and saying this is wrong. This is something that is not going away, we are going to have meetings and as many hearings as we can and I want to see meaningful progress.” ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr sent a letter to Director of the Executive Office for United States Attorneys Jim Crowell to express support for additional funding for the Middle District of North Carolina’s United States Attorney’s Office for the remainder of fiscal year 2019 and for all of fiscal year 2020. “As you are likely aware, organized crime has dramatically increased in the State of North Carolina and in the Middle District in particular,” wrote the senators. “This dramatic increase in criminal activity more than warrants additional resources for the Middle District, and we hope you will consider our request and make the allocation of additional resources a top priority.” “We recognize the pressures your office faces in allocating resources to all United States Attorneys, and we are committed to working with you to secure increased congressional appropriations for the requested resources,” the senators continued. “However, in the interim, we believe the unique challenges in the Middle District more than warrant an increased administrative allocation for fiscal years 2019 and 2020." In recent years, violent crime rates and trends in the Middle District have increased significantly. In addition to the general increase in violent crime, the Department of Justice has identified that several of the priority transnational criminal organizations are actively engaged in criminal activity in the Middle District. These dangerous criminal enterprises represent a real safety threat to the people of the Middle District and requires a strong, concerted federal effort to eradicate the threat they pose. With only approximately 59 full time staff and a population of almost 3 million people, the Middle District has only one staff member per 47,000 people. This makes the Middle District one of the least resourced United States Attorney’s Office in the country, per capita. Read the letter here. ###
03.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr applauded the Senate confirmation of North Carolina native Allison Jones Rushing as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Watch Senator Tillis speak on Ms. Rushing HERE. “I want to thank my Senate colleagues for voting to confirm Allison Jones Rushing to be a United States Circuit Court Judge for the Fourth Circuit,” said Senator Tillis. “Ms. Rushing is from East Flat Rock, North Carolina and after 11 years practicing law is considered one of the rising stars in the legal profession. I've had the opportunity to get to know Ms. Rushing through the nomination process and I know she's going to do a great job on the Fourth Circuit Court.” “I’m pleased the Senate has confirmed Allison Jones Rushing, a native North Carolinian and fellow Wake Forest graduate, to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Senator Burr. “As a partner at Williams & Connelly, Ms. Rushing distinguished herself as an expert appellate lawyer, with an impressive record of pro bono work. Equally important, she has demonstrated the character and temperament that makes a fair and impartial judge. I want to congratulate Ms. Rushing on her confirmation, and am confident she will serve on the Fourth Circuit honorably.” Allison Rushing previously was a partner with Williams and Connolly LLP with a focus on appellate matters, constitutional issues, and regulatory challenges. Ms. Rushing is widely viewed as one of the best young appellate lawyers in the country: Legal 500 has praised Ms. Rushing for her “excellent writing advocacy skills,” The National Law Journal has recognized her stellar oral advocacy in the Federal courts of appeals, and Super Lawyers has recognized her as one of its “Rising Stars.” Ms. Rushing has argued before Federal courts of appeals and state appellate courts, in addition to briefing cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Rushing clerked for then-Judge Neil Gorsuch on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, then-Chief Judge David Sentelle on the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and Justice Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court of the United States. Ms. Rushing earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Wake Forest University, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Duke University School of Law, where she served as executive editor of the Duke Law Journal. ###
03.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), and Chuck Grassley (R-IA) introduced legislation that would bar known gang members and those convicted of dangerous crimes from entering the United States. Criminals with known gang associations would be disqualified from taking advantage of our immigration laws and receiving immigration benefits. Additionally, the bill would grant the Secretary of Homeland Security the authority to designate criminal gangs under the Immigration and Nationality Act and create a $200 million federal grant to law enforcement agencies to combat dangerous and violent criminal gangs. The bill is named in honor of Corporal Ronil Singh, a police officer in Newman, California who was killed on December 26, 2018. An illegal immigrant with known gang affiliations and two prior DUI arrests has been charged with murdering Corporal Singh. Several illegal immigrants have been charged with helping Corporal Singh’s alleged killer try to flee the country. Singh’s Law provides U.S. law enforcement agencies with additional tools to combat violent criminal gangs operating in the United States and ensures that illegal immigrants with gang ties and prior criminal convictions are promptly removed from the country. “We cannot allow dangerous illegal immigrants with known gang affiliations to enter or remain in the United States,” said Senator Tillis. “This much-needed legislation will provide law enforcement with more tools and resources to combat criminal gangs and help keep American communities - both immigrant and native-born - safe. I will work with my colleagues to pass this legislation in honor of Cpl. Ronil Singh and his family.” “No family should have to go through this. This law would protect other families from having to suffer the pain that we have endured,” said Reggie Singh, brother of Corporal Ronil Singh. “Corporal Ronil Singh immigrated to America legally, started a family, and ultimately gave his life in the line of duty as a law-enforcement officer. Corporal Singh was the embodiment of the American dream. He was shot dead the day after Christmas by an illegal-alien gang member, leaving behind his wife and five-month-old son. Corporal Singh is dead because we failed to secure our border and enforce our immigration laws. This bill is our attempt to honor Corporal Singh’s vast sacrifice and ensure our communities are better protected from illegal-alien gang members,” said Senator Cotton. “Our immigration system should include laws that prevent people who represent a risk to public safety—such as those with criminal records and dangerous backgrounds—from entering the country. This bill helps ensure DHS has the necessary authority, and law enforcement has the necessary funds, to keep our country safe,” said Senator Cramer. “The tragedy that befell Corporal Singh reminds us all of the price that American families pay for unchecked illegal immigration and inexcusable loopholes in the law. Corporal Singh came to this country legally to pursue a career in law enforcement and protect his community. By contrast, his killer came to this country illegally, exploiting border weaknesses, and committed the most heinous offense of murder. This bill, which includes language that I’ve authored in previous Congresses, would address a glaring loophole in the law and ensure that any convicted foreign national with gang membership or affiliation is swiftly deported,” said Senator Grassley. In 2017, the House of Representatives passed similar legislation targeting criminal alien gangs. Congressman Chip Roy (R-TX) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. ###
03.01.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, reintroduced a resolution to establish a John S. McCain III Human Rights Commission, modeled after the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives. If passed, the resolution would create a bipartisan commission to examine human rights violations through regular hearings and briefings, and promote human rights initiatives in the Senate. Joining Senators Coons and Tillis in introducing the resolution were Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Ed Markey (D-MA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ). “Our late friend and colleague John McCain understood that promoting and defending human rights was a cornerstone of America’s foreign policy and an inherent way of advancing American values, from leading the passage of the Magnitsky Act to sanctioning authoritarian regimes that hold contempt for human life,” said Senator Tillis. “It’s an honor to join Senator Coons in proposing the establishment of the McCain Human Rights Commission, which will carry on John McCain’s legacy of shining a light on human rights abuses across the world and building bipartisan coalitions to take action.” “Senator McCain was a remarkable man who used his role in the Senate to advocate for human rights and to stand up for people around the world who were denied basic freedoms. He embodied our country’s values and understood the critical role of the United States in promoting human rights across the globe,” said Senator Coons. “I am hopeful that we can advance this legislation and honor Senator McCain’s legacy by establishing a bipartisan commission here in the Senate that is dedicated to raising awareness about human rights abuses and promoting human liberty around the world.” “Senator McCain believed that the United States can be an indispensable leader in promoting human rights abroad, and in doing so, advance our own interests and strengthen international norms that can foster equality and prosperity for all,” said Senator Markey. “I am honored to support a human rights commission that will honor Senator McCain’s contributions to American leadership and ensure Congress can maintain the defense of human rights as a foundational principle of our foreign policy.” “This proposed commission would honor Senator John McCain, who dedicated his life to promoting and protecting the democratic and moral values that we as Americans cherish,” Senator Rubio said. “In the Senate, he was a tireless champion for the God-given rights of all people and worked to expose violations of human dignity in the darkest corners of the world. I am proud to join my colleagues in continuing that work in the days ahead.” “Senator McCain recognized that America’s stature on the world stage came from our moral standing, and that one of the greatest foreign policy tools we hold is our support for human rights,” said Senator Merkley. “This proposal honors both his tremendous legacy as an individual, and our nation’s legacy as a defender of human rights across the globe.” “John McCain was an Arizona hero and a champion for human rights across the globe. He fiercely promoted the dignity and rights of all people, and his leadership still profoundly inspires me. I am honored to support a human rights commission named for John McCain as a fitting tribute to his legacy,” said Senator Sinema. The text of the resolution is available here. ###
03.01.2019	Senators Also Seek Commitment to Provide Training for Law Enforcement Officers to Secure Return of American Children WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) urged Attorney General Bill Barr to make full use of the International Parental Kidnapping Crime Act to combat international parental child abduction. Every year, several hundred American children are abducted by one parent and brought to a foreign country, where they are isolated from their other parent, family members, and friends. Abduction can have a profound impact on a child’s mental, physical, and emotional well-being. The International Parental Kidnapping Crime Act criminalizes the removal of a child from the United States with “the intent to obstruct the lawful exercise of parental rights.” Individuals found guilty of violating this statute are subject to criminal fines and the possibility of imprisonment of up to three years. These penalties provide powerful inducement for the taking parent to return a wrongfully taken or retained American child abroad. “Our office has consistently heard from left-behind parents and advocates that the Department rarely prosecutes individuals under the International Parental Kidnapping Crime Act and that many federal prosecutors and law enforcement officers are either unaware of the International Parental Kidnapping Crime Act’s existence or do not understand the vital role that prosecution can play in securing the return of abducted children,” wrote Senators Tillis and Feinstein. “We respectfully ask that you commit to increasing prosecutions under the law and provide training to all federal law enforcement officers on how it can be used to secure the return of American children.” This letter is the latest step taken by Senators Tillis and Feinstein to increase awareness of international parental child abduction. Earlier this year, they sent a letter to Secretary Pompeo urging him to make more relentless and effective efforts to bring abducted American children back home to the United States by using all of the tools and resources at the State Department’s disposal and introduced a bipartisan resolution to combat international parental child abduction. Read the full letter HERE. ###
03.01.2019	The bill would designate PFAS chemicals as hazardous substances under our environmental protection laws WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored bipartisan legislation that would require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) within one year of enactment declare per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) as hazardous substances eligible for cleanup funds under the EPA Superfund law, and also enable a requirement that polluters undertake or pay for remediation. Joining Tillis are Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Gary Peters (D-MI), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Jack Reed (D-RI), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Richard Burr (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Joe Manchin (D-WV). Representative Debbie Dingell (D-MI) led the introduction of companion legislation in the House of Representatives earlier this Congress. “North Carolina has had a long and tragic history with toxic water contamination, and many North Carolina families are rightfully concerned about PFAS and GenX. I’m committed to protecting North Carolinians and ensuring our communities have clean water from the ground to the tap. That is why I am joining my colleagues in this bipartisan effort that would require the EPA to designate PFAS as a hazardous substance, enhancing efforts to clean up existing sites and prevent future contamination,” said Senator Tillis. “In the recently released PFAS Action Plan, EPA restated its promise to declare PFAS as hazardous substances, but did not indicate how long it would take to fulfill that promise,” said Senator Carper. “This is an issue that must be addressed with urgency—and that’s why this bill is so important. Designating these chemicals has hazardous substances will, at a minimum, start the process to ensuring contaminated sites across the country are cleaned up, and Americans are safer from the threat posed by these emerging contaminants. This is not the only measure needed to address the broader contamination problems, but it’s a start, and I’m proud this legislation has strong bipartisan support.”“As we’ve learned, certain types of PFAS pollution can have serious consequences when it comes to the environment and to public health and safety. That’s something we need to address,” said Senator Capito. “Our bill will help provide resources for PFAS pollution cleanup and will make it possible to hold those responsible for it accountable. I’m proud to lead this bipartisan legislation with Senator Carper and will continue working with my colleagues, EPA, and others to resolve the issue more broadly.”On February 14, 2019, EPA released its PFAS Action Plan. The plan included a commitment by EPA to designate PFOA and PFOS as hazardous substances under CERCLA. Clear and swift action from Congress to list PFAS as hazardous substances under CERCLA would advance the action already proposed by EPA, enabling the agency to protect human health and the environment in an expeditious manner. To see the full text of the bill, click HERE. ###
02.28.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the U.S. – North Korea Summit in Vietnam: “The United States cannot afford to lift sanctions on North Korea without concrete assurances of denuclearization. President Trump made the right move walking away in Hanoi, just as President Reagan walked away from the negotiating table in Reykjavik. President Trump understands that it’s better to strike no deal than a bad deal, especially since we have seen the consequences of a bad nuclear deal with Iran under the Obama Administration. I applaud the President and Secretary Pompeo’s continued dialogue with North Korea regarding the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, and their pursuit of an outcome that is in the best interests of our nation and our allies.”
02.28.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, held their first subcommittee hearing of the 116th Congress to examine the 2019 Annual Intellectual Property Report to Congress. The committee heard from the Honorable Vishal Amin, the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator in the Executive Office of the President. Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ opening statement. Click HERE to watch the full hearing. “Our nation’s innovation economy is facing a number of challenges in the 21st century. From competition from State Actors like China to confusion about what’s even eligible to be patented, there are many issues Congress needs to address to ensure America’s innovation economy continues to dominate the globe,” said Senator Tillis. “This Congress, my vision for the Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property is to tackle head on in a bipartisan, bicameral way the major issues facing America’s IP system and conduct rigorous oversight of the agencies tasked with protecting our nation’s intellectual property system. I look forward to working hand in hand with Ranking Member Coons on how we can encourage more women, people of color, and small business owners and inventors to engage in our intellectual property system.” ###
02.28.2019	
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and a group of his colleagues introduced a bipartisan disaster relief package with the backing of President Trump, which would provide additional federal relief for North Carolina as it recovers from Hurricane Florence, as well as other states reeling from recent natural disasters. President Trump, working with this bipartisan group of senators, has reaffirmed his support for disaster relief and encouraged Congress to pass additional funding for North Carolina and other states. Senator Tillis joined Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Doug Jones (D-AL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Rick Scott (R-FL), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) in introducing the bipartisan legislation. “As North Carolina continues to recover from Hurricane Florence, this bipartisan legislation is a positive step to ensure our great state receives the resources it needs to help communities affected by the storm,” said Senator Tillis. “Immediately following the destruction, I worked with Senator Burr and the entire North Carolina delegation to secure an initial down payment of recovery funding on behalf of North Carolinians, but much more still needs to be done. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate and ensure our families, businesses and farmers have the opportunity to rebuild from the devastation left by Hurricane Florence.” The bipartisan funding package includes: Approximately $13.6 billion in overall relief efforts to states affected. Critical agriculture disaster relief for farmers recovering in the wake of Hurricane Florence and other natural disasters across the country. Development grants for small, rural communities impacted by natural disasters in 2018. Assistance for veterans’ health facilities, and military construction projects devastated by Hurricane Florence Emergency funds for critical watershed, and wastewater infrastructure needs. Infrastructure aid for highways and other transit projects damaged by natural disasters. Click here for text of the bipartisan disaster relief package. ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) introduced bipartisan legislation that would strengthen financial markets by reducing the risk of companies contemplating going public. TheEncouraging Public Offerings Act of 2019 would encourage capital formation by making initial public offerings (IPOs) more attractive. Senators Tillis and Van Hollen introduced identical legislation in the 115th Congress. Last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission released a proposal similar to the bipartisan legislation and will vote to approve the rule after the 60-day comment period. “IPOs give companies crucial access to capital markets and yield the potential to create thousands of jobs. When private companies consider going public, we should be doing everything possible to make this process easy and to encourage it, without jeopardizing investor protections,” said Senator Tillis. “It’s imperative that Americans have the opportunity to invest their savings and retirement funds wisely, and having more IPOs is important in helping folks save for retirement. This bipartisan legislation will reduce unnecessary red-tape and encourage these companies to continue to grow.” “Too often new businesses find that the process of going public is both overly complex and expensive. This bill would establish a clear path for startups looking to go public and would provide the flexibility they need to grow and succeed,” said Senator Van Hollen. “The Encouraging Public Offerings Act will foster innovation and streamline the market, bringing more opportunity to businesses across Maryland and the country. I’m pleased to join Senator Tillis in introducing this common-sense legislation to help start-ups and small businesses attract the capital they need to grow and prosper.” Background:The Encouraging Public Offerings Act of 2019 expands certain provisions of Title I of the JOBS Act, which previously only applied to Emerging Growth Companies, to apply to all public companies. Specifically, the legislation allows issuers to submit to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for confidential review before publicly filing draft registration statements for IPOs and for follow-on offerings within one year of an IPO. Additionally, the bill allows all companies to meet with qualified institutional buyers and other institutional accredited investors prior to an offering to gauge those investors’ interest in the offering. ###
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted to support the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, legislation he co-sponsored that would protect infants born alive following attempted abortions by requiring that they be transported to a hospital and provided the same level of care as any other child born at the same gestational age. “Ensuring that newborn babies receive medical care no matter the circumstances should not be a divisive issue, and it is unconscionable that health care professionals might not try and save a life if the situation calls for it,” said Senator Tillis. “I am disappointed that Senate Democrats could not put extreme abortion politics aside in the name of basic humanity and pass this legislation, but I will continue to fight for life and protections for babies who survive abortions.” BACKGROUND: Health care practitioners must exercise the same degree of skill, care, and diligence to preserve the life and health of an infant who is born-alive after an attempted abortion as would be offered to any other child born at the same gestational age. After those efforts, the health care practitioners must ensure that the child be transported and admitted to a hospital. Health care practitioners and hospital employees must report violations to law enforcement. If a health care practitioner intentionally performs an overt act that kills a born-alive infant who survives an abortion, it is punishable like any other act of murder under federal law. Other violations of the Act are punishable through fines or up to five years imprisonment. The mother of the abortion survivor is granted a civil cause of action and exemption from prosecution if the abortionist kills or neglects her born-alive child. ###
02.22.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Mike Crapo (R-ID), David Perdue (R-GA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Kevin Cramer (R-ND) sent a letter to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) Comptroller General Gene Dodaro to seek clarification on if guidance letters issued by the Federal Reserve imposing the framework for consolidated supervision of large financial institutions constitutes a “rule” for the purposes of the Congressional Review Act (CRA). “The Federal Reserve has issued several guidance letters that impose a framework for consolidated supervision of large financial institutions, particularly those in Large Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee (LISCC). This framework imposes substantive requirements relating to capital, liquidity, corporate governance, and recovery and resolution planning,” wrote the senators. “Determining whether the LISCC Guidance is a “rule” under the CRA is particularly important because the Federal Reserve has never revealed the criteria by which certain supervised institutions become subject to (or may avoid becoming subject to) the LISCC designation and associated requirements,” the senators continued. “For these reasons, we respectfully request that you evaluate whether or not the guidance is a “rule” under the CRA.” “For too long, Federal regulatory agencies have used rules masquerading as guidance to improperly regulate financial institutions,” said Senator Tillis. “All government agencies should abide by the Administrative Procedure Act to remain transparent and accountable to Congress.” The Large Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee (LISCC) is the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System’s enhanced regulatory and supervisory framework for large and complex financial institutions. Read the letter HERE. ###
02.22.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, introduced the LEGION Act, bipartisan legislation that would extend American Legion membership to honorably discharged veterans who served since World War II. Currently, only veterans who served during periods of declared hostilities are able to join the American Legion. The bipartisan LEGION Act is supported by the American Legion and ensures the thousands of brave American veterans who fought for our country during unrecognized times of war are able to enjoy the full benefits of the American Legion. “For 100 years, The American Legion has fostered a community for servicemembers and veterans throughout our great nation,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan LEGION Act will expand access to the American Legion to all veterans who served honorably, and I look forward to building support for this commonsense legislation in the Senate.” “The American Legion provides critical resources to our veterans, but currently, only veterans who served during formally recognized conflicts can belong to the Legion. That restriction leaves out thousands of former American servicemembers who signed up to defend our country. Our legislation rights this wrong and ensures veterans have the opportunity to join the American Legion,” said Senator Sinema.“Nearly 1,600 brave American men and women were killed or wounded since World War II, while defending our nation during times not officially recognized as periods of war by the U.S. government,” American Legion National Commander Brett P. Reistad said. “These veterans are unable to receive some of the benefits and recognition available to their counterparts who served during official wartime periods. Because The American Legion is congressionally chartered, we are unable to welcome many of these veterans as members of the nation’s largest veterans organization. It is fitting that during the 100th anniversary of the founding of The American Legion, Senators Kyrsten Sinema (AZ) and Thom Tillis (NC) are introducing the LEGION Act, bipartisan legislation that will recognize all veterans who served honorably since the start of World War II, while also fostering growth within the veteran community. Moreover, we salute Sen. Sinema for making this the first bill that she has introduced as a newly elected U.S. senator. We hope that the American people will encourage all members of Congress to support the LEGION Act. It is an appropriate ‘thank you’ to those who served.” ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, held a joint committee hearing with the Senate Readiness and Management Support Subcommittee on the current condition of privatized military housing. Tillis and his Senate colleagues heard testimony from military family members, companies, and the Department of Defense on the current conditions of military housing, problems military families are facing, and solutions to ensure military families have the best possible housing. VIDEO: Tillis to military families not getting results:“I want to say for the benefit of everyone in this room and anyone watching that everyone on this committee is behind you and love to do casework for anyone in need. As we are trying to solve this problem, if you or any family you know is going through issues with military housing, do not hesitate to contact your local representative. If you are at Fort Bragg, Camp Lejeune, Cherry Point, Seymour Johnson or New River, be sure to call my office and I guarantee we will help while we fix the systemic problem.” Military families in North Carolina facing significant housing issues should call Senator Tillis’ office at (919) 856-4630. VIDEO: Tillis to the military housing providers:“I don’t want anyone to leave this hearing thinking it is any one entity at fault. Every single one of you has work that you need to do and you need to do a top to bottom review to get it done, and I hope I have your commitment and the commitment of the other firms that provide military housing.” VIDEO: Tillis to the Department of Defense:“Nothing irks me more than abuse of authority, and I consider retaliation from someone in authority the worst kind of leadership you can exhibit. As Chair of the Personnel Subcommittee who gets consulted on future promotions, I can assure you that if someone has a record of retaliation in response to military families raising issues with their housing, they will be needing to find a different line of work. This is a very important issue that needs to be solved quickly. I hope the DoD will convene and give us suggestions in advance of the NDAA fairly quickly, and I also want to see evidence that you are engaging the housing providers and solving this problem.” ###
02.15.2019	“…I don’t believe a national emergency declaration is the solution. It wouldn’t provide enough funding to adequately secure our borders, it would likely get tied up in litigation, and most concerning is that it would create a new precedent that a left-wing President would undoubtedly utilize to implement their radical policy agenda while bypassing the authority of Congress.” “Congress has allowed executive overreach to continue unabated from one administration to the next because both sides are fine with it as long as they agree with the policy goal. While I agree with President Trump’s policy goal, I don’t believe in situational principles, and it’s clear what kind of rabbit hole our country can go down when we have a Democratic President who wants more government intrusion into our economy and our lives.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “It doesn’t matter who the President is or what party they belong to: I strongly believe in the separation of powers and curbing the kind of executive overreach that Congress has allowed to fester for the better part of the last century, including during the Obama Administration. Over the last several years, I’ve repeatedly supported President Trump’s plans to secure our borders. I share the President’s frustration that Congressional Democrats have blocked the reasonable and good faith efforts he has made to invest in more personnel, technology, and infrastructure in order to protect the American people. Democratic leaders have made clear their opposition to a serious investment in border security is motivated by their desire to score political points at the President’s expense. While there are unobjectionable ways for the President to transfer federal funds to be used for border security, including more than $600 million from the Treasury Forfeiture Fund, I don’t believe a national emergency declaration is the solution. It wouldn’t provide enough funding to adequately secure our borders, it would likely get tied up in litigation, and most concerning is that it would create a new precedent that a left-wing President would undoubtedly utilize to implement their radical policy agenda while bypassing the authority of Congress. As Speaker Pelosi explicitly noted, liberal Democrats would certainly embrace scenarios like: A President Bernie Sanders declaring a national emergency to implement the radical Green New Deal, including shutting down power plants, causing energy prices to skyrocket. A President Elizabeth Warren declaring a national emergency to shut down banks and take over the nation’s financial institutions. A President Cory Booker declaring a national emergency to effectively end Second Amendment Rights. Congress has allowed executive overreach to continue unabated from one administration to the next because both sides are fine with it as long as they agree with the policy goal. While I agree with President Trump’s policy goal, I don’t believe in situational principles, and it’s clear what kind of rabbit hole our country can go down when we have a Democratic President who wants more government intrusion into our economy and our lives.” ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the India Caucus, issued the following statement after a Pakistan-based terrorist group bombed and killed an estimated 40 Indian paramilitary police in Kashmir: “Today’s terrorist attack against Indian paramilitary police is a despicable act of violence, however, I know it will not weaken the resolve of the Indian people. The American people and the American government stand fully behind our ally India and their fight to defend their democracy and end the threat of violent extremism. As a member of the Armed Services Committee and the Senate India Caucus, I remain committed to strengthening the national security alliance between our two nations.” ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the unanimous passage of bipartisan legislation he co-sponsored that would criminalize lynching, attempts to lynch, and conspiracy to lynch for the first time in American history. The Justice for Victims of Lynching Act was introduced by Senators Kamala D. Harris (D-CA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Tim Scott (R-SC). Tillis previously co-sponsored the Justice for Victims of Lynching Act last Congress, which also passed the Senate by unanimous consent. It marked the first time in American history that federal anti-lynching legislation had been passed by the Senate. “The horrific occurrences of lynching that took place in American history must never be forgotten,” said Senator Tillis. “Passage of the Justice for Victims of Lynching Act is a long-overdue step to criminalize lynching and honor those who suffered from these disgusting acts of violence.” The Justice for Victims of Lynching Act amends the United States Code to specify that lynching is a crime under existing federal civil rights statutes. Lynching was used as an instrument of terror and intimidation 4,084 times during the late 19th and 20th centuries, according to data from the Equal Justice Initiative. The legislation is supported by the NAACP, the Anti-Defamation League, and the Equal Justice Initiative, and has companion legislation in the House of Representatives. ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after voting to confirm Bill Barr as the United States Attorney General:“Throughout his decades of public service, Bill Barr has put the rule of law ahead of partisan politics and he has earned a tremendous amount of respect from both sides of the aisle. During his confirmation process, he made it clear he is the right choice to lead the men and women who serve in the Department of Justice, and I am thankful for his commitment to allow the special counsel investigation to continue to completion. I look forward to working with him to make progress on important issues like improving our nation’s intellectual property system.” ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Acting EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler announced that the EPA will move forward with additional regulatory actions as part of its comprehensive PFAS management plan. “I’m glad the EPA listened to the concerns raised by communities and state regulators across the country, including those in North Carolina, regarding PFAS contamination,” said Senator Tillis. “This management plan is an important first step towards ensuring that the EPA, states, and affected communities have the necessary tools to effectively respond to and remediate PFAS contaminated areas. Congress also has a role to play, and I’ll be working across the aisle to introduce bipartisan legislation to protect North Carolinians from contamination.” Earlier this month, Senator Tillis sent Acting Administrator Wheeler a letter noting North Carolina’s long and troubling history with water contamination, including at Camp Lejeune, and called for the EPA “to use all available resources to fully address PFAS contamination.” “PFAS contaminants, including the chemical Gen X, have been found in the Cape Fear River in North Carolina, which is the primary source of drinking water for multiple North Carolina counties and communities,” wrote Senator Tillis. “Unfortunately, this is not our state’s first experience with water contamination. Three decades after trichlorethylene (TCE) and perchloroethylene (PCE) contaminants, we still have North Carolina families reeling from its devastating effects. We cannot risk repeating history. I urge EPA, under your leadership, to use all available resources to fully address PFAS contamination.” Acting EPA Administrator Wheeler announced the EPA is beginning the process to designate PFOA and PFOS as “hazardous substances” under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), which allows those responsible for the pollution to be held financially accountable for its cleanup. Wheeler also announced the EPA is moving forward and will propose a Regulatory Determination, the next step in the regulatory process for setting an Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) under the Safe Drinking Water Act, for PFOA and PFOS by the end of the year. Additionally, EPA announced a series of other actions it will be taking to address PFAS contamination including, expanding existing research efforts to further understand the chemicals health impacts and the effectiveness of existing remediation and clean-up technologies. Read Senator Tillis’ letter to the EPA Acting Administration calling for more action HERE. Read the EPA’s response to Senator Tillis, including the announcements, HERE. ###
02.13.2019	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the unanimous passage of bipartisan legislation he co-sponsored that will strengthen partnerships between federal agencies and the country’s more than 100 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). The HBCU Propelling Agency Relationships Towards a New Era of Results for Students (HBCU PARTNERS) Act was introduced by Senators Tim Scott (R-SC) and Chris Coons (D-DE) and a companion bill was introduced in the House of Representatives by Reps. Mark Walker (NC-06) and Alma Adams (NC-12). The HBCU PARTNERS Act builds on President Trump’s 2017 executive order on HBCUs. It will require federal agencies with relevant grants and programs to undertake annual planning and coordinate their efforts to support and expand HBCU participation in those programs. The bill strengthens the rigor and transparency requirements of existing law by requiring that agencies track their progress toward past goals and share their plans with Congress. In addition, it codifies the President’s Board of Advisors on HBCUs, ensuring an ongoing avenue for the institutions’ priorities and policy concerns to be raised. “HBCUs play an important role in developing a strong, diverse workforce in North Carolina and across the country,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan HBCU PARTNERS Act will help support and expand HBCU programs and ensure the next generation of students can have the opportunity to attend these historical institutions.” "Our HBCUs have provided amazing opportunities for generations of students, and I am excited that our bipartisan bill to help our HBCUs continue that tradition is on its way to becoming law. The HBCU PARTNERS Act is a great step forward for these schools and their students," said Senator Scott. "HBCUs today continue their tradition of opening higher education to new generations of students," Senator Coons said. "They educate 300,000 students across the country, 70 percent of whom receive Pell grants, and charge almost 30 percent less tuition that their peer institutions. I’m proud to make sure that federal agencies actively work to support HBCUs’ critical missions." "The Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF) is proud to support the 'HBCU Propelling Agency Relationships Towards a New Era of Results for Students Act' (HBCU PARTNERS Act)," said Dr. Harry L. Williams, TMCF president & CEO. "Having all federal agencies formally develop and submit annual plans for increasing HBCU capacity building for grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements, to Congress will ensure that the most important elements of President Trump’s HBCU Executive Order are not only developed, but acted upon." ###
02.13.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Gary Peters (D-MI), David Perdue (R-GA), and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) introduced the Fostering Innovation Act of 2019, bipartisan legislation that would provide commonsense regulatory relief for many innovative companies that are in scientific and medical research fields. Currently, emerging growth companies (EGCs) are exempt from certain regulatory requirements for five years after their initial public offering (IPO). One of the requirements EGCs are exempt from is Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 (b) - which requires public companies to obtain an external audit on the effectiveness of their internal controls for financial reporting. The Fostering Innovation Act is a very narrow fix that temporarily extends the Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(b) exemption for an additional five years for a small subset of EGCs with annual average revenue of less than $50 million and less than $700 million in public float. “North Carolina has a rich and diverse biotech landscape, and is the home of many companies that are on the cutting edge of scientific and medical research. Unfortunately, some of the expiring JOBS Act exemptions are going to harm the ability of some companies to access capital and continue to grow by diverting critical investments away from science towards compliance,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to introduce the bipartisan Fostering Innovation Act, and I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to advance this critical fix.” “Across Michigan, bio-technology startups are helping create good-paying jobs and developing innovative cures. In order to advance medicine for patients in need, many of these companies must allocate valuable resources to conduct trials and tests before their products can reach the market,” said Senator Peters. “This bipartisan legislation is a commonsense measure that allows these cutting-edge small businesses to cut red tape and focus on critical research and development of new life-saving treatments.” “Georgia is the number one state in the country in which to do business. Our state has also become a hotbed for fintech, biotech, and other emerging technology companies,” said Senator Perdue. “As a former Fortune 500 CEO, I’ve seen the negative impact that one-size-fits-all regulations have on businesses. This bipartisan action removes one of the most onerous requirements off of these technology startups and will allow Georgia’s industries to compete in public markets and on the global stage.” “We must continue cutting red tape so that Arizona’s state-of-the-art businesses can develop critical innovations and move our country forward,” said Senator Sinema. BIO President & CEO Jim Greenwood: “I commend Sens. Tillis, Sinema, Peters and Perdue for championing the Fostering Innovation Act. Over 300 biotechnology companies have gone public since the JOBS Act was enacted, and this important legislation will further promote capital formation while preserving investor protections. Most biotechnology companies remain pre-revenue for a decade or more until they receive their first product approval, long past the original five-year exemption from SOX 404(b) granted by the JOBS Act, causing a damaging diversion of capital from science to compliance. By extending this commonsense exemption of the JOBS Act to qualifying companies, emerging biotechnology innovators will be able to devote more of their limited resources to potentially lifesaving research and development activities.” A copy of the bill text is available here. ###
02.13.2019	Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr sent a bipartisan letter led by Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) urging congressional leaders to promptly pass disaster supplemental funding legislation to help communities recover in the aftermath of recent natural disasters, including Hurricane Florence. In the wake of Hurricane Florence making landfall in North Carolina, Tillis and Burr immediately began working with the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to secure disaster relief funding for the areas affected by the storm. Tillis and Burr successfully secured an initial down-payment of $1.68 billion in disaster relief funding, with a majority of those dollars going to North Carolina, just three weeks after Florence made landfall. Tillis, Burr, and Rubio were joined by Senators Doug Jones (D-AL), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Rick Scott (R-FL), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Tim Scott (R-SC), David Perdue (R-GA), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC). The full text of the letter is below. Dear Majority Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Schumer, Speaker Pelosi and Minority Leader McCarthy: We write to urge prompt consideration of a bipartisan and bicameral disaster supplemental appropriations measure to infuse communities across the nation with much needed resources in the aftermath of recent natural disasters. As you are well aware, last year produced catastrophic hurricanes, wildfires, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions that have left our communities in need of federal assistance to continue their recovery efforts. We are deeply concerned these state and local governments will not have the necessary resources needed to address critical issues, including defense capabilities, agriculture, infrastructure and economic development that are crucial to our constituents and businesses in hard hit areas. Both sides of the Capitol must work together with the administration to come to a solution that addresses the needs of our home states, which have been forced to shoulder the burden of recovery efforts without the necessary assets. Unfortunately, Congress has delayed providing this aid for too long while our communities face the consequences of our inaction. Congress has a responsibility to appropriate disaster funding and assist our states which are facing daily challenges trying to rebuild and restore. As such, we insist you bring a disaster supplemental bill to the floor for consideration at the earliest opportunity to ensure that the federal government fulfills its responsibility. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter, and we look forward to continuing our work. Sincerely, ###
02.12.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate passed The Natural Resources Management Act, which includes a provision authored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to direct the Secretary of Interior to annually designate at least one city in the United States as an “American World War II Heritage City,” with Wilmington, North Carolina likely to be among the first cities to receive the honor. Senator Tillis most recently introduced the same provision as standalone legislation in January, with Congressman David Rouzer introducing companion legislation in the House of Representatives. The Natural Resources Management Act, which includes Senator Tillis’ World War II cities provision, now heads to the House for final passage. “Today marks a major step toward creating official designations for American World War II cities, including Wilmington,” said Senator Tillis. “I’ve been pursuing this legislation alongside Congressman Rouzer for years because it is vital that we pay recognition to the cities across the nation – including Wilmington – that made significant contributions during World War II to secure America’s victory in Europe and the Pacific, and have worked to preserve this history.” The American World War II designations are based on specific criteria, including the contributions a city made toward the efforts to secure America’s victory in the European and the Pacific theaters during World War II, as well as the efforts made by cities to preserve the history of the their World War II contributions through the preservation of museums and organizations, restoration of facilities that helped with the war effort, and a city’s overall recognition of World War II veterans. During World War II, Wilmington was the home of the North Carolina Shipbuilding Company. The shipyard was created as part of the U.S. government's Emergency Shipbuilding Program. Workers built 243 ships in Wilmington during the five years the company operated. The city was the site of three prisoner-of-war (POW) camps from February 1944 through April 1946. At their peak, the camps held 550 Nazi prisoners. The first camp was located on the corner of Shipyard Boulevard and Carolina Beach Road; the old Confederate post Fort Fisher housed Nazi prisoners and also served as a training site for the Coastal Artillery and anti-aircraft units. A smaller contingent of prisoners was assigned to a smaller site, working in the officers’ mess and doing grounds keeping at Bluethenthal Army Air Field, which is now Wilmington International Airport. Bluethenthal Army Air Field was used by the United States Army Air Forces’ Third Air Force for antisubmarine patrols and training. ###
02.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of Congressman Walter B. Jones, Jr.: “Congressman Walter B. Jones, Jr. was the true embodiment of a public servant. He will be long remembered for his tireless advocacy for Eastern North Carolina, which he loved dearly, and for always following his convictions, no matter the political cost. He always did what he felt was right for his constituents, his district, and his country, and it was no wonder why he was so widely admired and trusted. It was a true honor to serve with Walter Jones. Susan and I send our deepest condolences to Joe Anne and his loving family.” ###
02.10.2019	
02.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee issued the following statement after voting to advance Bill Barr’s nomination to the floor of the U.S. Senate: “Throughout his decades of public service, Bill Barr has put the rule of law ahead of partisan politics and he has earned a tremendous amount of respect from both sides of the aisle. I am thankful for his commitment to allow the special counsel investigation to continue to completion and believe he is an outstanding choice for Attorney General. I look forward to getting him confirmed.” ###
02.07.2019	Subcommittee will focus on promoting American innovation and economic development WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE) were announced as Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property. Jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property includes the United State Patent and Trademark Office, the United States Copyright Office, oversight of the functions of the federal government as they relate to intellectual property, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. “Intellectual property plays an important role in our nation’s long term economic success and national security. In recent years our country has been faced with a number of challenges in our intellectual property system, from rampant theft from state actors like China, to confusion among innovators and inventors about what is even patentable. These issues are causing our nation’s economy to lose billions of dollars annually and threaten our country’s long-term technological dominance,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Chairman Graham and Ranking Member Feinstein for allowing Senator Coons and I to focus on these issues at the subcommittee level for the first time in years. I’m committed to working with Ranking Member Coons on a bipartisan basis to examine the current state of intellectual property in the United States and make targeted improvements to our intellectual property framework that protect and promote America’s innovation economy.” “The United States is the most innovative country on the planet. To stay at the top, inventors must be supported by strong intellectual property laws that encourage and reward research and development and that penalize and deter IP theft,” said Senator Coons. “The founders understood this, and that’s why they specifically empowered Congress in the Constitution to create a nationwide patent system to – as they put it – ‘promote the progress.’ The United States needs to better protect innovation – the lifeblood of our economy – and this subcommittee will provide an important forum for addressing these critical policy issues. I look forward to working with Chairman Tillis to improve and clarify U.S. patent law, celebrate inventions that improve Americans’ lives, and promote global protection of IP.” Other members on the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property are Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), John Cornyn (R-TX), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Mike Lee (R-UT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and Marsha Blackburn (R-TN). ###
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Representative Bill Flores (R-TX) re-introduced the Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act in the Senate and House of Representatives. The legislation would help ensure that alternative procedures for challenging drug patents do not tilt the playing field contrary to Hatch-Waxman’s design. This bill will restore balance and integrity to the patent system and ensure drug manufacturers have the proper incentives to continue developing life-saving medications. “The biotechnology and life sciences industry undertakes tremendous risk and costs to develop new, life-saving drugs, with the vast majority of products never making it to the market at great expense to the manufacturer. These drugs save millions of lives every year and are a critical component of our nation’s healthcare system. While it is important to call out bad actors who price gouge, we must allow sufficient time and balance so companies can continue to develop life-saving drugs and help people with the countless illnesses and diseases that affect millions of Americans,” said Senator Tillis. “The Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act will restore a proper balance in the market so that companies will continue to spend billions of dollars to develop life-saving and life-altering treatments. I want to thank Senator Hatch for his strong leadership on this issue and I look forward to building support for this bill within the Senate.”"The Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act ensures that America remains a leader in developing life-saving and accessible therapies, cures and treatments for patients," said Representative Flores. "It restores an effective balance between the interests of brand-name and generic drug manufacturers so that innovation and competition will continue to flourish. It was fulfilling to work with Senator Hatch on this initiative during the last Congress; and I look forward to working with Senator Tillis to modernize the Hatch-Waxman Act so that hardworking American families continue to benefit from health care innovation." Background:The Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act of 2019 would require a generic manufacturer wishing to challenge a brand-name drug patent to choose between the Hatch-Waxman framework, which affords certain advantages such as being able to rely on the drug innovator’s safety and efficacy studies for FDA approval, and inter partes review, or IPR, which is cheaper and faster than Hatch-Waxman litigation but does not provide the advantages of a streamlined generic approval process. The bill would apply similarly to patents on biologics. The bill would preserve Hatch-Waxman as the standard path for generic manufacturers to challenge brand patents, while keeping IPR as an option where other interests come into play. It would not have any impact on the use of IPR by the tech community. A copy of the bill text is available [here]. ###
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) signed a bipartisan letter urging the Trump Administration to stabilize the Medicare Advantage program, which provides quality health care to 21 million seniors and individuals with disabilities. The senators wrote to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma requesting she considers how to strengthen the program, innovate with technology and ensure predictability for enrollees. “Millions of our constituents depend on Medicare Advantage for quality, patient-centered health care,” the senators wrote. “Beneficiary enthusiasm for the program remains strong, with more than one in three seniors enrolled…For plan year 2020, we encourage the Administration to implement policies that promote innovation, provide predictable funding to support long-term, value-based arrangements and ensure that any substantive changes include sufficient time for thorough evaluation and stakeholder engagement.” The full text of the letter is available HERE and below: Dear Administrator Verma: We write to express our strong support for Medicare Advantage and the high-quality care it provides to more than 21 million seniors and individuals with disabilities. We appreciate the Administration’s recognition of the value of Medicare Advantage and its work to encourage innovation for these private health plans. As annual updates are considered for 2020, we ask you to continue to strengthen and grow this proven part of the Medicare program by proposing policies that provide stability and predictability. Millions of our constituents depend on Medicare Advantage for quality, patient-centered health care. Beneficiary enthusiasm for the program remains strong, with more than one in three seniors enrolled. This is due, in part, to private plans’ ability to leverage best practices in care delivery, use robust data analytics, and implement proven value-based care and care management models. Medicare Advantage enrollees report a 91 percent satisfaction rate, with 74 percent of enrollees in plans rated four Stars and above. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently announced average Medicare Advantage premiums are estimated to decrease by six percent in 2019. Meanwhile, beneficiary enrollment has increased by eight percent in the past year and 79 percent since 2010, a testament to the affordability, high-quality care coordination, disease management and community-based programs, and supplemental benefits such as vision and dental coverage provided by Medicare Advantage plans. Further, bipartisan efforts are helping to reduce beneficiary costs by increasing the use of telemedicine, promoting value-based insurance design, and expanding benefits that address social determinants of health by including transportation, nutrition, and other non-medical needs that enhance quality of life. For plan year 2020, we encourage the Administration to implement policies that promote innovation, provide predictable funding to support long-term, value-based arrangements, and ensure that any substantive changes include sufficient time for thorough evaluation and stakeholder engagement. ###
02.06.2019	The GEAR UP for Success Act improves the GEAR UP Program by increasing state and local flexibility to better meet students’ needs WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored bipartisan legislation that would improve the GEAR UP federal grant program by giving grant recipients increased flexibility to cater to local students’ needs, reducing administrative burdens for grant recipients, and ensuring a more fair and competitive application process. The GEAR Up for Success Act was led by John Cornyn (R-TX) and Joe Manchin (D-WV) and also co-sponsored by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Kamala Harris (D-CA), and Jacky Rosen (D-NV). North Carolina is currently the recipient of five GEAR UP grants: Appalachian State University $2.7 million per year that covers 9,500 students over 8 school districts in Western North Carolina $1.4 million per year that covers 5,150 students over 3 school districts in Western North Carolina UNC System Schools $4.1 million per year that covers 22,000 students over 11 school districts in rural North Carolina Fayetteville State University $1.2 million per year that covers 1,500 students in 4 middle schools and 4 high schools Iredell-Statesville Schools $1 million per year that covers 1,700 students in 5 middle schools “The GEAR Up initiative is important for low-income and underrepresented students to become aware of their college opportunities,” said Senator Tillis. “North Carolina has a large GEAR UP footprint that has a proven record of success, and I hope we can pass this legislation to allow those in need to have the opportunity for higher education.” “Our local schools should be able to use grants to cater specifically to their students’ needs,” Sen. Cornyn said. “This legislation will bring even greater local control in the GEAR UP program, from which many students in Texas have already benefited. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure students don’t fall behind, improve college completion rates, and ensure decisions rest with those who know our students best.” “Preparing students to pursue higher education is necessary if we as a nation are to have a civilly engaged, world changing generation of citizens,” Sen. Manchin said. “During the 2017-18 academic year, West Virginia GEAR UP students spent more than 39,000 hours engaged in activities that promote academic achievement, career exploration, college awareness and ultimately increased participation in postsecondary education. I am proud to introduce this measure and am excited to see how these West Virginians and Americans will shape our world into an even better one than we already have.” “GEAR UP and its strong network of colleges, high schools, and middle schools help young people develop the confidence to take advantage of the opportunities awaiting them,” said Sen. Collins. “GEAR UP serves thousands of Maine students in more than 50 schools across the state, providing individuals with the resources they need to further their education. I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing legislation to reauthorize this important program.” Representatives Will Hurd (R-TX-23) and Susan Davis (D-CA-53) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. Background: The GEAR Up for Success Act would amend the Higher Education Opportunity Act to: Give school districts and other local entities increased flexibility to design programs to address local needs; Empower state and local leadership on the GEAR UP scholarship component; Improve GEAR UP research and evaluation at the local and national levels; Reduce administrative burdens for GEAR UP grantees; and Close loopholes to ensure a fair and competitive application process. The GEAR UP Program is a competitive grant program that helps low-income and historically underrepresented students achieve college and career readiness, improve high school graduation rates and postsecondary enrollment rates, and raise awareness of postsecondary options among student and families. GEAR UP engages students early, accelerates their readiness through supplemental programs, and expands the capacity of schools to create “college going” cultures. Nationally, GEAR UP outcomes have shown positive student gains for participating students. GEAR UP students graduate from high school at a higher rate than their peers – regardless of ethnicity or income – and attend college at a higher rate. ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) welcomed North Carolina natives Pastor Andrew Brunson and Norine Brunson as his guests to the State of the Union. Throughout 2018, Senator Tillis worked to help secure the release of Pastor Brunson, who was facing an effective life sentence in Turkey, accused of crimes he did not commit. VIDEO: Download video of Senator Tillis and Pastor Brunson HERE. Watch the video HERE. “It’s an honor to have Andrew and Norine Brunson accompany me to the State of the Union, nearly one year after I first met Pastor Andrew Brunson in a Turkish prison, where he faced an effective life sentence,” said Senator Tillis. “The Brunsons demonstrated tremendous grace and unshakable faith during Andrew’s nearly two-year imprisonment and house arrest. One of my proudest moments as a U.S. Senator was the work we did to help secure Andrew’s release, and I couldn’t be more thrilled that he is back with his family and here with me tonight.” ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to the State of the Union address: “I appreciated President Trump’s call for more bipartisan cooperation. The American people are sick and tired of people on the far-right and far-left drowning out those in the middle who want to get things done. We have an opportunity to produce major bipartisan results like modernizing America’s infrastructure, securing our borders and fixing our broken immigration system, and ensuring our veterans, servicemembers and military families receive the support they need and deserve. Now is the time for Democrats and Republicans to find common ground, not to bow down to the fringes of either party. I intend to continue to work across the aisle on commonsense solutions, and I urge all my colleagues to do the same and prove that a divided Congress can produce results.” ###
02.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that North Carolina natives Pastor Andrew Brunson and Norine Brunson will be his guests to the State of the Union address on Tuesday, February 5th, 2019. Throughout 2018, Senator Tillis worked to help secure the release of Pastor Andrew Brunson, who was facing an effective life sentence in Turkey, accused of crimes he did not commit. “The Brunsons demonstrated tremendous grace and unshakable faith during Andrew’s nearly two-year imprisonment and house arrest. His plight caused Americans from every corner to pray for his release and for leaders in both political parties to work together to apply pressure on the Turkish government to secure his return to American soil,” said Senator Tillis. “It’s an incredible feeling that nearly one year after I first met Pastor Andrew Brunson in a Turkish prison, where he faced an effective life sentence, I now have the honor of welcoming him and his wife, Norine, as my special guests to the State of the Union.” ###
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored legislation to require the President and Congress to enact annual balanced budgets. S.J.Res.3 is a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution requiring the President to submit, and Congress to approve, a balanced budget each year. The legislation has been referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I often ask our military leaders what keeps them up at night. Time and time again, their answer is the rapidly growing national debt and the uncertainty it brings for the future,” said Senator Tillis. “That should be evidence enough to get the $22 trillion national debt under control before it is too late, and I urge Congress to take up this balanced budget legislation to ensure we spend the American people’s hard-earned tax dollars responsibly.” The joint resolution also includes certain spending waivers for use during wartime or imminent danger to national security. A copy of S.J.Res.3 is available here. ###
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) signed a bipartisan letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler urging the agency to develop federal drinking water standards for perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS), including the chemical know as GenX, as part of the agency’s national management plan for this class of chemicals. The letter led by Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) also requests that the EPA provide briefings on the agency’s efforts on this issue, as well as regular updates on the progress of those efforts. The Senators’ letter comes in response to a report that the agency does not plan to establish enforceable drinking water standards for the chemicals, which have been linked to a variety of adverse health implications. GenX, a chemical used in manufacturing nonstick coatings and other industrial purposes, is a member of the PFAS class of chemicals and has been detected in the Cape Fear River, which serves as the primary source of drinking water for Bladen, Brunswick, New Hanover, and Pender counties. The Senators wrote, “As you are aware, PFAS chemicals have emerged as a widespread contaminant in drinking water sources in several communities across the nation. While the risks associated with PFAS exposure are still being uncovered, studies have linked these unregulated emerging contaminants to a number of adverse health effects. On May 19, 2016, the EPA established lifetime health advisory levels for PFOA and PFOS. These health advisories, however, are non-enforceable and deprive states of much-needed federal guidance on how to determine and implement effective drinking water standards for PFOA and PFOS chemicals.” The letter goes on to explain that in the absence of federal standards, states have been forced to establish their own drinking water regulations for PFAS. The lack of coordination among states has led to a patchwork of conflicting drinking water standards and guidelines across nine states, which have varying maximum contaminant levels and have raised concerns in impacted communities that are questioning whether their regulations are sufficient. In their letter, the Senators continued, “Without enforceable drinking water standards for PFOA and PFOS, it is doubtful that a national management strategy will sufficiently confront the challenges PFAS chemicals pose to states and affected communities. This decision would also fail to consider ongoing interagency efforts to determine the human health implications of contamination from PFAS, including the nationwide study being conducted by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR).” In closing, the Senators called on the EPA to commit to developing federal drinking water standards for PFOA and PFOS, to provide briefings to the Senators’ offices on the agency’s efforts on this issue and to deliver regular updates on the agency’s progress. The letter is also signed by Senators Hassan (D-NH), Stabenow (D-MI), Carper (D-DE), Udall (D-NM), Murray (D-WA), Casey (D-PA), Leahy (D-VT), Cantwell (D-WA), Reed (D-RI), Heinrich (D-NM), Brown (D-OH), Sanders (I-VT), Manchin (D-WV), Menendez (D-NJ), Gillibrand (D-NY), Warren (D-MA) and Peters (D-MI). The letter can be read in full here. ###
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) cosponsored legislation introduced by Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Deb Fischer (R-NE) and 10 other colleagues to allow federal law enforcement to detain illegal immigrants criminally charged with killing or seriously injuring another person. The legislation was re-introduced in honor of Sarah Root, who was tragically killed 3 years ago today. On January 31, 2016, the night of her graduation, Sarah Root, a twenty-one year-old Iowan from Council Bluffs, was struck and killed in Omaha, Neb., by Edwin Mejia, who entered the country illegally and was driving drunk – three times over the legal limit. “Three years after Sarah Root’s tragic and preventable death, it is alarming that the illegal immigrant who killed her remains at large, and that cannot be repeated in future cases,” said Senator Tillis. “We cannot continue to allow illegal immigrants who are dangerous criminals to remain at large in our communities. This legislation will prevent these injustices in the future and ensure illegal immigrants who are charged with killing or seriously injuring another person will be in federal custody and removed from the United States.” “It is wholly unacceptable that someone who is here illegally and is responsible for the death of another human being is not considered an enforcement priority nor is detained by ICE. We have an obligation to the Root family, and to the American people, to ensure that no person falls victim to this injustice again. Sarah’s Law brings us one step closer to restoring justice in our broken immigration system by allowing ICE to detain and hold these criminals accountable,” said Senator Ernst. “The tragic death of Sarah Root three years ago and the ongoing search for her killer underscore the serious attention border security and immigration enforcement require in America. Sarah’s life was cut short by an undocumented immigrant who disregarded the rule of law and decided to get behind the wheel after drinking. The Obama Administration refused to take custody of Sarah’s killer because it didn’t consider him a priority, allowing him to disappear into the shadows. The Roots have been robbed of their daughter, and at least for now, they have been robbed of justice. Our legislation, named in Sarah’s memory, will ensure that those who harm or kill Americans will be taken into custody and removed while also ensuring that victims and their families get the information they deserve from the government as they pursue justice,” said Senator Grassley. “Our family is very grateful for Senator Ernst and her willingness to continue to push for Sarah's Law. It means a lot to us that she is reintroducing this bill on the third anniversary of Sarah's death. This law is to make sure no other family has to go through what our family has. Sarah's killer is still on the run and if this law was in place when she was killed we wouldn't be looking for her killer today – he would be in custody and serving his time,” said Michelle Root, mother of Sarah Root. Following state criminal charges of motor vehicle homicide and outreach by local law enforcement, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) used its discretion to decline to issue a detainer on Edwin Mejia, Sarah’s killer. Subsequently, Mejia posted bond, disappeared and now, three years later, still remains at-large. About Sarah’s Law: Sarah’s Law would amend the mandatory detention provisions of the Immigration and Nationality Act to require the federal government to take custody of anyone who entered the country illegally, violated the terms of their immigration status or had their visa revoked and is thereafter charged with a crime resulting in the death or serious bodily injury of another person. The legislation also requires ICE to make reasonable efforts to identify and provide relevant information to the crime victims or their families. Under this law, Mejia would have been detained by law enforcement and not allowed to flee from justice. The Root family would have been kept up-to-date on Mejia’s status and federal immigration authorities’ efforts to remove him from the United States. In January 2017, President Trump implemented major parts of Sarah’s Law via Executive Order, which included prioritized detention of criminal illegal immigrants and the creation of the Office of Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement. Passage of Sarah’s Law would codify the order into law, to prevent future administrations from withdrawing President Trump’s executive order, or deprioritizing the detention of illegal immigrants who commit crimes involving death or serious bodily injury, and restricting information to victims of such crimes. To read the text of the bill, click here. ###
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) introduced the Threat Assessment, Prevention, and Safety (TAPS) Act of 2019 (S. 265), bipartisan legislation that would create a task force of experts to provide recommendations for a national strategy to keep communities safe from targeted violence through threat assessment and management. Specifically, the legislation would help provide resources, training, and assistance in establishing and operating locally driven threat assessment and management units. “We cannot allow mass casualty events to become the new normal in America, and it is imperative that we take strong proactive steps to prevent them,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan TAPS Act utilizes an innovative approach that is proven to be effective, creating a uniform program to identify threats and provide states with the opportunity to receive the training and resources necessary to save lives and keep our communities safe.” “We must proactively engage with experts in the field of threat assessments in order to help prevent future tragedies,” Senator Rubio said. “We have the expertise to implement systems to identify and stop dangerous individuals before they commit an act of violence, but we have yet to fully and effectively develop and utilize it to prevent future attacks. By bringing threat assessment experts together and utilizing evidence-based behavioral threat assessment and management processes, this bill will help equip our communities with the tools they need to prevent future tragedies. I want to thank Senators Sinema and Tillis for leading this effort with me in the Senate and Congressman Babin for his continued leadership in the House.” “We must provide law enforcement with the tools they need to keep Arizona families safe and secure,” said Senator Sinema. “I will work every day to protect Arizonans from senseless, tragic acts of violence.” Representative Brian Babin (R-TX) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. A one-pager of the legislation is available here. The TAPS Act of 2019 will: Develop guidelines and best practices that can be utilized across government; Provide States the training, resources, and support they need in order to stand up community-based, multidisciplinary behavioral threat assessment and management units; and Establish a temporary task force made up of experts in behavioral threat assessment and management to make recommendations to Congress for a National Strategy for preventing targeted violence. Endorsing Organizations: The Association of Threat Assessment Professionals (ATAP), Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association (FLEOA), Georgia International Law Enforcement Exchange (GILEE), National District Attorneys Association (NDAA), North Carolina Association of Chiefs of Police, North Carolina State Bureau of Investigations (NCSBI), Peace Officers Research Association of California (PORAC), San Diego County District Attorney, San Diego County Office of Education, The Association of University and College Counseling Center Directors (AUCCCD), The University of California Council of Chiefs of Police. ###
01.30.2019	VA’s proposed access standards will determine veterans’ eligibility for new Veterans Community Care Program established in ‘VA MISSION Act’ WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs reaching a major milestone in the implementation of the VA MISSION Act, landmark legislation passed last year that strengthens health care services at the VA. “The publication of the new access standards required by the VA MISSION Act, which greatly improve upon the arbitrary parameters set forth by the VA Choice Act, will apply veteran-centric eligibility criteria based on a veteran’s needs and circumstance,” said Senator Tillis. “Empowering veterans to make decisions about their own health care is not only the right thing to do, it is a critical step in allowing the VA to continue to modernize and meet the needs of an increasingly diverse veteran community. I commend Secretary Wilkie and the VA for this important step, and I look forward to working with him as we continue to make care better and more accessible for all veterans.” In the new law, the VA’s existing community care programs were streamlined into one Veterans Community Care Program to help ensure veterans receive efficient, timely and quality care, whether inside the VA system or from providers in their communities. The law instructs the Secretary of the VA to establish standards for veterans seeking care within the VA. If the VA is unable to meet certain designated access standards, veterans will be given the option to receive care in the community. Today, the VA announced the proposed new access standards to determine a veteran’s eligibility for community care that will take effect in June. The announcement is on track with a March deadline for the VA to provide a report to Congress detailing these access standards. Tillis was a strong advocate for the VA MISSION Act, bipartisan legislation that included two provisions authored by Senator Tillis that allows the VA to use a third-party entity to electronically process health care claims from medical providers and authorizes the VA to implement pilot programs for new and innovative payment and delivery models for VA health care that will allow the Department to modernize and adapt to the ever-changing needs of the veteran population. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act, legislation that would provide responsible management of the wild horse population around Corolla, North Carolina and the Outer Banks. Representative Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives in previous Congresses and has been a long time champion of protecting the Corolla wild horse population. “A cherished part of our state’s history and an admired attraction, thousands of tourists visit North Carolina’s beaches each year to witness the majestic nature of the Corolla horses,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation will take the necessary and proper steps in protecting the health and safety of the wild animals and their habitat, while encouraging continued tourism and economic investment for our local coastal communities.” The Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of North Carolina, Currituck County and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to craft a new management plan to care for the wild horses that inhabit the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The Corolla wild horses do not exist anywhere else in the world. Their lineage can be traced back to the arrival of Spanish explorers on the Outer Banks in the 16th century. They are Colonial Spanish mustangs that have survived in the wild for the last four centuries and now roam across Currituck County, North Carolina. This legislation is supported by the Humane Society and American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. ###
01.28.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored bipartisan legislation to combat the epidemic of murdered and missing Native women and girls by improving the federal government's response to addressing the crisis. Savanna’s Act would increase coordination among all levels of law enforcement, increases data collection and information sharing, and empowers tribal governments with the resources they need in cases involving missing and murdered indigenous women and girls wherever they occur. The legislation was introduced by Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV) and also co-sponsored by Senators John Hoeven (R-ND), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Jon Tester (D-MT), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), and Jeff Merkley (D-OR). Specifically, the legislation aims to bridge the gap of the limited data on the number of missing Native women by directing the U.S. Department of Justice to formulate new guidelines for the reporting of violent crimes against indigenous people. The bill improves tribal access to certain federal crime information databases by mandating that the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Interior consult with Indian tribes on how to further improve these databases and access to them. It also requires certain federal agencies to solicit recommendations from tribes on enhancing the safety of Native women, as murder rates against indigenous women are ten times the national average. “The number of cases involving the kidnap or murder of indigenous women that go unsolved is unacceptable, and it is clear better coordination is needed among all levels of law enforcement to stop this epidemic,” said Senator Tillis. “Savanna’s Act unanimously passed the Senate last year and there is no reason it can’t do the same again, and I will work with my colleagues across the aisle to ensure we get it across the finish line and signed into law this Congress.” “Senator Heitkamp was a true leader on this issue and an advocate for indigenous peoples throughout her tenure in the Senate. I’m proud to reintroduce this bill and continue our efforts to bring much needed attention and coordination to the issue of murdered and missing Native women,” said Senator Murkowski. “In Alaska many rural communities lack public safety and are often hundreds of miles away from the nearest community with a Village Public Safety Officer (VPSO) or State Trooper. Compound that with the fact Alaska lacks a unified 911 system, which makes accessing resources even more challenging in many rural communities. Enacting this legislation will allow for greater partnerships between law enforcement at all levels and ensure they have accurate data from which to work. It will also ensure that law enforcement has the resources and cultural understanding to wholly and effectively address this epidemic. We have a duty of moral trust toward our nation’s first people and we must all be part of the solution.” “It is long past time that Congress took action to help curb the tragic epidemic of violence toward Native American women,” said Senator Cortez Masto. “I’m proud to join Senator Murkowski in reintroducing Savanna’s Act, which gives local and Tribal law enforcement the federal resources they need to finally seek justice for the thousands of missing and murdered Native American women and their grieving families.” Bill Highlights: Improves tribal access to certain federal crime information databases and mandates that the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Interior consult with Indian tribes on how to further develop these databases and access to them. Requires the DOJ, Interior, and HHS to solicit recommendations from tribes on enhancing the safety of Native women and improving access to crime information databases and criminal justice information systems during the annual consultations mandated under the Violence Against Women Act. Requires the creation of standardized guidelines for responding to cases of missing and murdered Native Americans, in consultations with tribes, which will include guidance on inter-jurisdictional cooperation among tribes and federal, state, and local law enforcement. Requires statistics on missing and murdered Native women, and recommendations on how to improve data collection, to be included in an annual report to Congress. Background: In October of 2017, former U.S. Senator Heidi Heitkamp introduced Savanna’s Act, cosponsored by Senator Murkowski, the first piece of major legislation specifically addressing Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls. The legislation is named for Savanna LaFontaine-Greywind, who was abducted and killed last year in Fargo, North Dakota. It passed the U.S. Senate unanimously in December of 2018. ###
01.25.2019	“The end of the partial government shutdown provides much-needed relief to federal workers who have demonstrated tremendous dedication to the country throughout this political stalemate. “It is vital that we do not end up in the same spot three weeks from now, which will require all sides to demonstrate a willingness to take heat from both the far-left and far-right and find common ground. From my many discussions with my Democratic colleagues over the last several weeks, it’s clear that a bipartisan deal is within reach that would secure our borders and make much-needed reforms to our nation’s broken immigration system. The big question is whether Democratic leaders, including Speaker Pelosi, are paying lip service about border security and immigration reform or whether they’re actually serious about their promise to work on a compromise. We’ll soon find out.” ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), co-chairs of the Senate North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Observer Group, issued the following joint statement in response to the Greek parliament’s vote ratifying the Prespes Agreement, which recognizes the renamed Republic of North Macedonia. The agreement ends a 27-year dispute between the nations and will allow The Republic of North Macedonia to be included in the next NATO enlargement round and join the transatlantic alliance. “Greece’s vote to ratify and recognize The Republic of North Macedonia is a significant step toward securing peace and prosperity in the region, and will have broader implications by opening the door to the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Balkans,” said Tillis and Shaheen. “Finding compromise and ending this dispute through diplomacy and peace should be an example to the entire region, and to the global community.” ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr sent a letter to U.S. General Services Administration (GSA)Administrator Emily Murphy urging the GSA to secure temporary, leasable space in Wilmington for employees displaced from the Alton Lennon Federal Building in Wilmington due to Hurricane Florence and to restore and reopen the Alton Lennon Federal Building as soon as possible. To date, more than 44 federal employees have been displaced because of the building’s closure, including a federal magistrate judge who holds court in Wilmington. The federal court has a temporary lease agreement and access to space in the New Hanover County Courthouse until April 2019, and the GSA has indicated it will be unable to renovate and reopen the Alton Lennon Federal Building by the lease’s expiration. If this is accurate, the federal district court will be unable to hold court in Wilmington after April 1, 2019, unless it is possible to have a temporary presence in the Alton Lennon Federal Building or another space. “As you are likely aware, the Alton Lennon Federal Building was severely damaged during Hurricane Florence and has been closed for the foreseeable future,” wrote the Senators. “These federal employees provide crucial services to the people of Wilmington and the surrounding counties.” “We are specifically concerned about the closure of the federal courtroom in Wilmington,” the Senators continued. “Accordingly, we ask that you continue to work to ensure the court may administer justice in New Hanover County. We also ask that you work to expeditiously renovate and reopen the Alton Lennon Federal Building.” Read the full letter HERE. ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Senate voting on two separate proposals to end the shutdown: “President Trump’s proposal to re-open the government and take a positive step to secure our borders and provide a degree of certainty to the DACA and TPS populations is a good faith effort to compromise and end the current political stalemate. “The President’s request for increased border security is reasonable, ensuring we have the personnel, technology, and infrastructure needed to have 21stcentury border security and effectively combat human and drug trafficking. It would also set the stage for a major immigration reform deal to be stuck in the future, one that could finally provide long-term certainty to DACA recipients, including a merit-based path to citizenship, an initiative I’ve been leading for the last several years. “In addition to ending the shutdown, the President’s compromise would also reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act, appropriate additional funds for North Carolina’s Hurricane Florence recovery efforts and bring federal relief to the state faster, and provide more than $30 million for North Carolina State University to build the much-needed Plant Sciences Laboratory. “While this proposal is not perfect, it’s a good starting point to build consensus, and I encourage my Democratic colleagues to vote in favor of advancing to the bill so all senators can propose amendments to improve it and build the bipartisan support it needs to pass and end the partial shutdown. “The reason I plan to vote against Senator Schumer’s proposal is because it’s the exact opposite of a good faith proposal and makes no attempt to try to bridge the gap between President Trump and Democrats. The President has already made clear he would veto it. I’m interested in re-opening the government, not political posturing. “In the event both proposals fail, my hope is that Democratic leaders will finally be willing to come to the negotiating table and strike a bipartisan deal. The President has already shown he is willing to accept less than perfect in order to achieve the good, even at the cost of receiving criticism from some of his supporters. It’s time for Democratic leaders to start doing the same.” ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored the Pay Our Coast Guard Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator John Thune (R-SD) that would ensure the U.S. Coast Guard receives funding during the government shutdown. As a branch of the Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Coast Guard has been severely affected by the shutdown, including approximately 42,000 active-duty, reservist and civilian personnel that are currently not getting paid to ensure the maritime safety, security and stewardship of the nation. North Carolina is home to Coast Guard Base Elizabeth City, the largest employer in Northeastern North Carolina and home to the largest USCG aviation facility in the nation. “North Carolina is home to thousands of U.S. Coast Guard personnel that are currently going without a paycheck due to the partial government shutdown,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation will immediately give the Coast Guard the funding it needs and ensure it never happens again.” This bill provides continuing appropriations to the U.S. Coast Guard for any period during which interim or full-year appropriations for the Coast Guard are not in effect. The appropriations are provided to the Coast Guard for: pay and allowances for members of the Coast Guard, civilian employees, and contractors; the payment of a death gratuity, funeral travel, and the temporary continuation of the basic allowance for housing for dependents of members of the Coast Guard dying on active duty; and retiree pay. The appropriations are provided until the enactment of specified Coast Guard appropriations legislation. ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Brian Schatz (D-HI) sent letters to the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) seeking more information on how they plan to prepare law enforcement officials to effectively access and analyze digital evidence in support of criminal investigations. The Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) recently reported law enforcement agencies are facing significant challenges impeding their ability to effectively access and use digital evidence to support criminal investigations. Central among these challenges is insufficient training and technical support to help law enforcement understand how legally to identify, handle, access, and analyze such evidence—a problem more far-reaching than accessing encrypted devices or data. The CSIS report found that nearly one-third of law enforcement professionals cited difficulties in identifying which service providers had access to digital evidence as their largest challenge, followed by difficulties in obtaining evidence from providers, and a lack of resources needed to access and analyze data from devices. A 2018 study sponsored by BJA similarly found that “needs related to facilitating better communication and understanding between law enforcement and service providers” and “better investigator access to information and training on requesting remote digital evidence” ranked high among law enforcement’s challenges. “While traditional evidentiary sources and methods remain critically important for prosecutions of criminal cases at the local, state, and federal levels, law enforcement officials increasingly must rely on digital evidence—including mobile communications devices, social media accounts, internet browsing histories, and myriad other data sources—to generate leads, identify suspects, and build and prosecute cases,” wrote the Senators. “As the need to use digital evidence grows and access to the myriad types of digital information available to law enforcement agencies becomes more technically complex, stronger coordination and more effective training for law enforcement personnel will prove invaluable, especially as access to and use of certain digital evidence raise issues of privacy or due process.” “We share a commitment to ensuring U.S. law enforcement personnel are equipped with the best tools and training necessary to leverage digital evidence in their investigations,” the Senators continued. “As such, we seek your assistance in providing information about how your department is working to combat these challenges.” Read the letter to the BJA here. Read the letter to the DHS here. Read the letter to the FBI here. ###
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Angus King (I-ME) sent a bipartisan, bicameral letter to Congressional Leadership urging them to provide a meaningful solution for the H-2B temporary guest worker program in any government funding agreement. “As all of you are aware, we have been working in a bipartisan, bicameral fashion for years to find an acceptable, permanent legislative solution to the problems plaguing this program. Our work has had one goal: to provide the appropriate amount of non-immigrant, temporary workers needed to supplement our American workforce and sustain our economy,” wrote the Congressional members. “If significant and permanent H-2B cap relief is not provided, there will be severe consequences for seasonal businesses and our economy generally. Several seasonal businesses denied access to the program due to the insufficient cap have already been forced to scale back their operations, cancel or default on contracts, lay off full-time U.S. workers, and, in some cases, shutter their operations entirely,” the Congressional members continued. “Continuing with the status quo of failing to reform the H-2B program will only result in more closures or scale backs for these businesses. In any agreement to end the current partial lapse in government funding, we owe our constituents, and seasonal business owners relying on this vital program, a thoughtful and lasting legislative solution to the H-2B visa shortage.” Recent filings show, that the statutory cap of 66,000, which was set more than three decades ago, is wholly inadequate to meet the demands of today’s seasonal businesses. Due to the strong national economy, employers have struggled to find U.S. workers for seasonal positions which are, on average, 6-9 month jobs. As such, there has been a marked uptick in the number of seasonal employers that, as a last resort, turn to the H-2B guest worker program for the employees they need to sustain their businesses during peak times. Shortly after midnight on January 1, 2019, the Department of Labor’s iCERT system, through which employers seeking H-2B workers request temporary labor certifications –a necessary step in the H-2B application process—received a record number of requests and almost immediately crashed. In the brief moments before system failure, iCERT received in excess of 97,000 applications for the 33,000 available visas for the second half of the fiscal year. Joining Tillis and King are Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), Susan Collins (R-ME), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Chris Coons (D-DE), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Todd Young (R-IN), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Doug Jones (D-AL), Rob Portman (R-OH), Tina Smith (D-MN), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Mark Warner (D-VA), Joe Manchin (D-WV), James Risch (R-ID), John Barrasso (R-WY), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Tim Scott (R-SC), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK). The letter is being led by Representatives Andy Harris (R-MD-1) and Chellie Pingree (D-ME-1) in the House of Representatives. Click HERE to read the letter. ###
01.19.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the President’s proposal to end the partial government shutdown through a compromise on border security funding and protections for DACA and TPS recipients: “I commend President Trump for his leadership in proposing a commonsense compromise to end the current political stalemate. The President’s framework is a fair and pragmatic approach, providing adequate funding to secure our borders and offering relief to DACA and TPS recipients, goals sought by both Democrats and Republicans. It also sets the stage for a major immigration deal in the future, one that could secure our borders once and for all and provide long-term certainty for the DACA and TPS population. “It’s now time for Speaker Pelosi to decide whether she is finally willing to compromise with the President and end the shutdown, or whether she will continue to pander to the extreme elements of her base at the expense of the rest of the country.” ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced a bipartisan Senate resolution that designates April 2019 as “Countering International Parental Child Abduction” month and instructs the federal government to educate state and local law enforcement about the issue and how to combat it. According to the Department of State, from 2008 to 2015 more than 9,000 American children were taken abroad by a parent to obstruct their (usually) former spouse from seeing their child. International child abduction has devastating long-term impacts on both the children and their left-behind parents. Research shows that an abducted child is at risk of significant short- and long-term problems, including anxiety, eating problems, nightmares, mood swings, sleep disturbances, and aggressive behavior. Their left-behind parents face similar struggles. The resolution is co-sponsored by Senators Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Patty Murray (D-WA), John Cornyn (R-TX), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Marco Rubio (R-FL). “Every year hundreds of American-citizen children across the nation are abducted abroad in order to obstruct their left-behind parent’s custody rights,” said Senator Tillis. “The federal government has tools to prevent the abduction and secure the return of our citizen-children but has consistently failed to use them. I hope this resolution demonstrates to the executive branch that the Senate is serious about ending international parental child abduction and that we will hold their feet to the fire until every single American child is returned home.” “It’s hard to imagine a more devastating situation for parents than their children being abducted and taken to a foreign country,” said Senator Feinstein.“Unfortunately, this happens more frequently than one would expect and it’s incredibly difficult for parents to get their children back. Our resolution raises awareness of this important issue.” “The U.S. Senate stands with the parents enduring one of the most difficult experiences imaginable – fighting for the return of an abducted child. I’ve had the joyous opportunity to help reunite Kentuckians separated by international parental abduction, and I will continue to work with my colleagues, the administration, and stakeholders so we can make more of these successful outcomes possible,” said U.S. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. “Abducting a child and taking them abroad is dangerous and has life-long consequences on both the child, and the left-behind parent,” said Crapo.“Working to ensure the safety and well-being of children is critical and our government must use its resources to prevent international parental child abduction, while at the same time, work to bring back to the United States those children who have been abducted.” “As a former prosecutor, I have seen firsthand the danger and tragedy of child abduction,” Klobuchar said. “This bipartisan resolution is an important reminder for all of us to work together with families in the fight to bring these children home.” “International parental abduction cases are tragic and leaves a parent heartbroken and uncertain of ever seeing their child again,” Rubio said. “It is critical that we make these American children, who have been abducted to a foreign country by one parent, a priority and that the U.S. uses all tools available to ensure their safe return.” “Few Americans know what international parental child abduction is, which is precisely why we need to pass this resolution and raise awareness among law enforcement, child welfare officials, and the general public,” said Sen. Menendez. “When someone takes their child to a foreign country for the explicit purpose of denying another parent their lawful right as a mother or father, it is ultimately the child who suffers most. I strongly support this bipartisan resolution which makes clear that the United States can and must do better to protect the welfare of children hurt by the trauma of international parental abduction.” Earlier this month, Senators Tillis and Feinstein sent a letter to Secretary Pompeo urging him to make more relentless and effective efforts to bring abducted American children back home to the United States by using all of the tools and resources at the State Department’s disposal. Read the resolution here. ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to bolster U.S. government efforts to prevent genocide and other human rights atrocities around the world was signed into law. The legislation, named in honor of the courageous, inspiring Holocaust survivor and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel, strengthens the U.S. government’s capability to prevent, mitigate, and respond to genocide and other mass atrocities wherever they may occur. The Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act (S. 1158) establishes a Mass Atrocities Task Force within the State Department to adequately monitor, analyze and address atrocities worldwide by coordinating multiple agencies across the U.S. government; identifying gaps in U.S. policy; consulting with NGOs and other groups dedicated to atrocity prevention. The bill also recommends that the Director of National Intelligence include atrocity crime information in the Director’s annual report to Congress on U.S. national security threats, and authorizes training for U.S. Foreign Service Officers in recognizing and reporting on early signs of atrocities and transitional justice measures. “The United States is a leader in preventing genocide and other human rights violations around the world, and we must reaffirm our commitment to those efforts now more than ever,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to be a part of this bipartisan legislation that will strengthen our government’s effectiveness in combatting these atrocities, and I will continue to work with my colleagues across the aisle in the new Congress on this important issue.” The full bill text is at this link. The legislation: Affirms the importance of strengthening U.S. efforts around mass atrocities through interagency tools like the Atrocities Prevention Board (APB); States that preventing genocide and mass atrocities are core U.S. national security interests and calls on the Administration to pursue a government-wide strategy to: strengthen U.S. diplomatic, risk analysis/monitoring, early warning, and response capacities around atrocity crimes; improve the use of U.S. foreign assistance to address the root causes of violent conflict; strengthen support to transitional justice mechanisms and local civil society groups in countries at risk of or experiencing mass atrocities; prioritize preventative diplomacy through unilateral, bilateral, and multilateral mechanisms; Requires specialized training for Foreign Service Officers who will be deployed to a country experiencing or at risk of mass atrocities; and Mandates annual reporting to Congress of the Administration’s efforts to prevent and respond to mass atrocities and an assessment of countries and regions at risk of such violence. ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored legislation to ensure federal workers that are deemed “essential” and continue to work are paid despite the partial government shutdown. The Shutdown Fairness Act authorizes federal agencies affected by the current government shutdown to pay the dedicated personnel that are still working every day to serve the people of the United States. “Federal workers who are expected to continue working through a government shutdown should be paid, plain and simple,” said Senator Thom Tillis.“The Shutdown Fairness Act will authorize federal agencies to pay their personnel that are still working, the very least we can do while we continue to work towards ending this government shutdown.” The legislation was introduced by Senators Ron Johnson (R-WI) and Susan Collins (R-ME) and is also cosponsored by Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Todd Young (R-IN), Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Kevin Cramer (R-ND). Background on the Shutdown Fairness Act Provides pay to an estimated 420,000 personnel currently working without pay, including personnel from: Commerce, Justice, Homeland Security, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, State, Transportation, Treasury, Forest Service, NASA, and SEC. Authorizes the use of unappropriated funds to pay personnel previously designated as “excepted” in accordance with section 124 of OMB Circular No. A-11. This is similar to the 2013 Pay Our Military Act, passed by the 113th Congress. “Excepted” individuals include those who are performing emergency work, or performing work involving the safety of human life or protection of property. ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to impose term limits on members of Congress. The amendment would limit U.S. senators to two six-year terms and members of the U.S. House of Representatives to three two-year terms. “It is past time for members of Congress to amend the Constitution and impose long-needed term limits on its members,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to co-sponsor this legislation and bring long-needed accountability to members of Congress, and I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to build support for ratification of this amendment.” Senator Tillis has supported term-limits dating back to his time as a member of the NC General Assembly, self-imposing a four-term limit while campaigning for his first term in 2006. As Speaker of the House, Senator Tillis supported legislation that would have created term-limits on the Speaker of the House and Pro-Tempore that passed the North Carolina House of Representatives. The amendment was introduced by Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) and is also co-sponsored by Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL), Mike Lee (R-UT), David Perdue (R-GA), Mike Braun (R-IN), Ben Sasse (R-NE), and Steve Daines (R-MT). The amendment may be viewed here. ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) was selected to be on the deputy whip team for Senate Majority Whip Sen. John Thune (R-SD) for the 116th Congress. “This is a dynamic team, and I will rely on each of these men and women over the next two years. I’m thrilled to have the experience of Sen. Cornyn and those who have served as deputy whips in the past, as well as an opportunity to welcome our new members, Sen. McSally and Sen. Romney,” Senator Thune said. “Last Congress, Senate Republicans worked together to implement reforms to help working families and increase opportunities for American workers. With the team we have put in place, I am confident we will continue to successfully deliver on the promises we made to the American people to improve their everyday lives.” “I want to thank Senate Majority Whip Thune for asking me to be on the deputy whip team once again for the 116th Congress. The American people are looking to Congress for bipartisan results that move our country forward, and I will continue to work with my Senate colleagues on both sides of the aisle to build support for legislation that accomplishes that goal,” Senator Tillis said. Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) will lead the team as chief deputy whip. Also serving as deputy whips are Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Cornyn (R-TX), Cory Gardner (R-CO), James Lankford (R-OK), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Rob Portman (R-OH), Mitt Romney (R-UT), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Todd Young (R-IN). ###
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), chairs of the Senate NATO Observer Group, issued the following joint statement to reiterate the strong support for NATO in the United States Senate: “NATO’s broad bipartisan support in the Senate has been repeatedly expressed through the re-establishment of the Senate NATO Observer Group and through key votes underscoring the U.S. commitment to transatlantic relationships,” said Tillis and Shaheen in a joint statement. “Progress has been steadily made to ensure all NATO members are paying their fair share of dues, and it's imperative that the United States work with allies to strengthen the transatlantic bonds that have kept us safe for 70 years and modernize NATO to respond to hybrid warfare and other threats to global security. For these reasons, the Senate stands ready to defend NATO and we look forward to the next enlargement round with the hope of welcoming the Northern Republic of Macedonia into the Alliance.” Tillis and Shaheen re-established the Senate NATO Observer Group earlier this year with an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. Tillis and Shaheen are both members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. ###
01.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored the Constitutional Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, legislation that will allow individuals with concealed carry privileges in their home state to exercise those rights in any other state with concealed carry laws, while abiding by that state’s laws. The legislation was introduced by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and currently has 30 co-sponsors in addition to Tillis. “Law-abiding citizens who choose to exercise their constitutionally protected Second Amendment rights and live in states with concealed carry privileges should be able to exercise those rights in other states with concealed carry laws,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation protects and promotes the rights of lawful gun owners while respecting state sovereignty, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this legislation through Congress.” Background on the Constitutional Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act: Protecting Fundamental Constitutional Rights: Allows law-abiding citizens to exercise their fundamental right to self-defense while they are traveling or temporarily living away from home. Allows individuals with concealed carry privileges in their home state to conceal carry in any other states that also allow concealed carry. Treats state-issued concealed carry permits like drivers’ licenses where an individual can use their home-state license to drive in another state, but must abide by that other state’s speed limit or road laws. Respecting State Sovereignty: Does not establish national standards for concealed carry. Does not provide for a national concealed carry permit. Does not allow a resident to circumvent their home state’s concealed carry permit laws. If under current law an individual is prohibited by federal law from carrying a firearm, they will continue to be prohibited from doing so under our bill. Respects state laws concerning specific types of locations in which firearms may not be carried and types of firearms which may not be carried by the visiting individual. Protects states’ rights by not mandating the right to concealed carry in places that do not allow the practice. Broad Support: Last Congress, identical legislation had 40 cosponsors. In the 113th Congress, a nearly identical amendment received 57 votes in the Senate, including 13 Democrats. ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on President Trump’s address to the nation regarding border security: “For decades, both parties have promised the American people they would secure our nation’s borders, promises that have gone unfulfilled. With the government partially shut down and the stakes high, if Congress can’t reach a commonsense compromise on border security and immigration now, it’s sending a message to the American people that it never can. “President Trump has made clear that he will not sign a funding bill that contains inadequate border security funding. He’s called on both parties to work together in good faith and that’s what I’m committed to doing. We must be willing to compromise to end the gridlock and produce a positive outcome for the country. If both sides cast aside the most extreme voices on the far-left and far-right, I believe a solution is well within reach to re-open our government, secure our borders, and make badly-needed reforms to our nation’s broken immigration system.” ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to reauthorize the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCAA), which provides funding for Children’s Advocacy Centers that serve child victims and help law enforcement hold perpetrators accountable, was signed into law by President Donald Trump. “Children’s Advocacy Centers play an important role supporting children who are victims of child abuse and assisting law enforcement officials in prosecuting those responsible,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to co-sponsor this bill that takes another important step towards protecting North Carolina’s most vulnerable and at-risk children, and I hope this Congress continues taking steps to protect victims of crime and their families.” Children’s Advocacy Centers employ a multi-disciplinary team of trained professionals to conduct forensic interviews of children who have been victims of abuse. These interviews are designed to be admissible in court while also preventing children from being re-traumatized by having to tell their accounts multiple times. Use of Children’s Advocacy Centers leads to faster criminal charging decisions in sexual abuse cases, increased felony prosecutions of child sexual abuse, and lower average per-case costs. The bill has garnered widespread support from the nation’s top advocacy groups, including the National Children’s Alliance, National Association of Prosecuting Attorneys, National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, Fraternal Order of Police, and National District Attorneys Association. The bill is also backed by the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the North East Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Midwest Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Western Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Sergeants Benevolent Association, the National Children’s Advocacy Center, and the Southern Regional Children’s Advocacy Center. ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Chris Coons (D-DE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Cory Booker (D-NJ) announced they will re-introduce the bipartisan Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act this week. The legislation would protect the current and any future Special Counsels from inappropriate removal or political pressure. The bill passed the Senate Judiciary Committee last Congress with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 14-7. The Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act: Codifies existing Department of Justice regulations to ensure that the Special Counsel can only be fired for good cause by a senior Justice Department official, and the reason must be provided in writing. Provides the Special Counsel a 10-day window in which he can seek expedited judicial review of his removal to determine whether the firing was for good cause. If the firing is ultimately determined to have violated the good-cause requirement, the removal will not take effect. Preserves the staffing, documents, and materials of the investigation while the matter is pending. “When we introduced the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act last year, I stated that I do not believe President Trump intends to remove Special Counsel Robert Mueller. I still believe that is true. However, I also believe this bipartisan legislation is good government policy with enduring value across the current and future Administrations,” said Senator Tillis. “This bill’s protections will help ensure that our Justice Department will have the independence it needs to conduct fair and impartial investigations with appropriate reporting to Congress. This will, in turn, reaffirm the American people’s confidence in our nation’s rule of law and the principle that no one is above the law. We were able to build a bipartisan base of support for this legislation last year, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to build the additional support required to advance it through the Senate.” “This is a time when Republicans and Democrats need to stand up and protect the rule of law in this country,” said Senator Coons. “This bipartisan bill is the best way to ensure that Special Counsel Mueller, and future special counsels, can complete their work without interference, and to make clear that no one is above the law.” “I have every confidence Mr. Mueller will be allowed to finish the job. However, there needs to be institutional protections for special counsels both now and in the future. Our bill allows judicial review of any decision to terminate a special counsel to make sure it’s done for the reasons cited in the regulation rather than political motivation. I think this will serve the country well. I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues on this legislation,” said Senator Graham. “One of the core principles of our justice system is that nobody is above the law,” said Senator Booker. “Our bipartisan bill defends that fundamental principle by protecting Special Counsel Robert Mueller, and future special counsels, from political interference. It’s a common-sense, bipartisan bill that provides the appropriate and necessary checks and balances on Presidential power in order to avoid a constitutional crisis.” ###
01.07.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) that would, for the first time, create a public health infrastructure across the country to combat Alzheimer’s disease and preserve brain health was signed into law by President Trump. “Successfully getting this legislation signed into law has a deep personal meaning for me, as I was a caregiver for my grandmother during her battle with Alzheimer’s disease,” said Senator Tillis. “The BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act will create the framework necessary to preserve brain health for millions of Americans, and I am proud to be a part of the fight to combat, and hopefully one day end, this terrible disease.” More than five million Americans are living with Alzheimer’s, and the United States spends more than $277 billion per year, including $186 billion in costs to Medicare and Medicaid. In North Carolina, more than 170,000 people are living with the disease, and over 466,0000 family members and friends are providing care. Without further action, the number of Americans with Alzheimer’s is expected to triple to as many as 14 million by 2050, costing the nation more than $1.1 trillion per year. The Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act will apply a public health approach to reduce risk, detect early symptoms, advance care, improve data, and ultimately change the trajectory of this devastating disease. Headed by the Centers for Disease and Prevention (CDC), it will authorize $20 million annually over the next five years to establish: Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Public Health Centers of Excellence dedicated to promoting effective Alzheimer’s disease and caregiving interventions as well as educating the public on Alzheimer’s disease, cognitive decline, and brain health. The centers would implement the CDC’s Healthy Aging Public Health Road Map, and would take key steps to support health and social services professionals as well as families and communities. Cooperative Agreements with the CDC that would be awarded to State Health Departments to help them meet local needs in promoting brain health, reducing risk of cognitive decline, improving care for those with Alzheimer’s, and other key public health activities. Data Grants to improve the analysis and timely reporting of data on Alzheimer’s, cognitive decline, caregiving, and health disparities at the state and national levels. The BOLD Act is supported by 183 organizations and individuals, including the Alzheimer’s Association, Alzheimer’s Impact Movement, and Maria Shriver, founder of The Women’s Alzheimer’s Movement. ###
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – President Donald Trump signed bipartisan legislation co-introduced by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to ensure the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reimburses veterans for missed or underpaid GI Bill housing benefits into law. The Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act was introduced to address the VA’s failure to fully comply with updated Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) rates set by the Forever GI Bill. The improper payments resulted from IT systems that had not been properly updated and lack of internal processes to get the VA the necessary information about payment rates. The Forever GI Bill directed VA to calculate BAH rates based on the zip code of where a student takes the majority of classes, rather than on a zip code in which the school’s main campus is located. The implementation of this change before the IT system had been updated, in addition to a realignment of VA and DOD housing allowance rates, led to delayed and improper payments for student veterans. “I am proud of the work we did on a bipartisan basis to get this important legislation through Congress and signed into law,” said Senator Tillis. “Thousands of veterans rely on receiving proper GI Bill housing benefits to pay their bills and we must ensure we deliver on the promise we gave them. I look forward to reviewing the plan from the VA to correct this error and quickly reimburse the veterans who were underpaid or did not receive payments.” Joining Senator Tillis to introduce the legislation were Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Jon Tester (D-MT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Brian Schatz (D-HI), and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT). The bill would require the VA to: End improper payments as soon as possible; Establish a team of specialists who will be responsible to report to Congress a detailed plan to correct this error; Provide a report to Congress by July 2020 that identifies how many beneficiaries were impacted and to what extent, aggregated by state; and Certify the department is fully compliant with the law. Anyone requiring assistance with their GI Bill benefit or experiencing financial hardship due to a delay in payment are encouraged to contact the VA Education Call Center at 1-888-442-4551 or online at https://gibill.custhelp.va.gov/app/utils/login_form/redirect/ask. They may also contact Senator Tillis’ office at 919-856-4630 or at tillis.senate.gov and someone will assist them directly. ###
01.03.2019	CHARLOTTE, N.C. – Senator Thom Tillis is urging residents of North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District to contact his office if they need any assistance with a federal department or agency. “Given the uncertainty facing North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District, all residents should know my Charlotte office is open and ready to help them resolve any issues they may be having with the federal government,” said Senator Tillis. “From assisting veterans seeking timely appointments at the VA to resolving issues seniors are having with their Social Security or Medicare benefits to helping families get expedited passports, my office does everything in its power to help North Carolinians.” Constituents can reach Senator Tillis’ Charlotte Office by calling 704-509-9087 or visiting www.tillis.senate.gov. Senator Tillis’ office has closed nearly 20,000 cases for North Carolinians, including: Closing more than 4,000 cases on behalf of veterans, resolving a wide range of issues from helping secure appointments at the VA to resolving pending disability claims. Closing nearly 2,000 cases for North Carolinians who were having issues with their Social Security or Medicare benefits. Closing nearly 1,500 immigration-related cases for North Carolinians who were having issues with the Department of State and United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. Assisting nearly 2,000 North Carolinians with getting expedited passports. ###
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last year, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) continued to work across the aisle to produce bipartisan results. Tillis was successful in getting a number of his priorities codified into law, including protecting veterans and holding VA executives accountable, securing more than a billion dollars in federal funds to help North Carolinians affected by natural disasters, and reforming Department of Defense personnel policies, including improved education and healthcare benefits for servicemembers, their families, and DOD civilian employees. A look back at some of Tillis’ bipartisan accomplishments in 2018: Tillis & Klobuchar Bipartisan Legislation to Help Veterans Exposed to Toxic Burn Pits Signed Into Law – During the War on Terror, the burning of waste like plastic, aerosol cans, electronic equipment, human waste, tires, and batteries on military bases exposed many servicemembers to a variety of potentially harmful substances. In response, Senators Tillis and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced and successfully passed legislation that would create a Center of Excellence in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) focused on researching the health effects associated with burn pits and treating veterans who become sick after exposure. Tillis Works to Improve and Pass Landmark Bipartisan Criminal Justice Reform Legislation – Senator Tillis has been a longtime advocate of criminal justice reform, recognizing that it can strike the balance between reducing crime and making our justice system more equitable, when done right. As North Carolina Speaker of the House in 2011, he spearheaded the passage of the Justice Reinvestment Act, sweeping criminal justice reform legislation. Senator Tillis has worked to replicate those changes on the federal level, and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley praised Tillis for his work to improve the First Step Act, bipartisan legislation that was recently signed into law. Tillis-Warren bipartisan legislation protecting veterans from predatory home lending signed into law – Since its inception, the VA home loan program has successfully insured more than 20 million home loans to help veterans become homeowners. However, a small number of lenders were abusing the program by utilizing misleading advertising tactics and engaging in a practice known as “churning” – the refinancing of a home loan over and over again to generate fees and profits for lenders at the direct expense of veterans and their families, often without their knowledge. To fix the problem, Senators Tillis and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation that would protect veterans from targeted predatory home loan practices. The Tillis-Warren legislation was codified into law in 2018. Click here to watch a video of Senators Tillis and Warren discussing their bipartisan bill. Tillis, North Carolina Delegation Secure Florence Disaster Relief Funding – In the wake of Hurricane Florence making landfall in North Carolina, Senator Tillis immediately began working with Senator Burr and the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to secure disaster relief funding for the areas affected by the storm. Tillis successfully secured an initial down-payment of up to $1.18 billion in disaster relief funding for North Carolina just three weeks after Florence made landfall, and Tillis continues to work with his colleagues and Congressional leaders on securing additional funding. Tillis Secures Upgrades To North Carolina Military Installations, Important Policy Improvements for Servicemembers and Military Families in NDAA – As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, Senator Tillis played a vital role in developing the bipartisan 2019 National Defense Authorization Act, which included more than a dozen provisions authored by Senator Tillis to improve the lives of our servicemembers and military families, make critical improvements to North Carolina’s military installations, and provide the largest pay raise for servicemembers in nine years. Among Senator Tillis’ provisions included in the NDAA: Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (DOPMA) Reform Addressing opioid abuse Impact Aid to educational agencies Extend Title IX protections to victims of juvenile sexual assault and harassment Combatting domestic violence and child abuse Expanding military spouses employment opportunities $241 million in construction funding for North Carolina’s military bases Tillis Helps Secure the Release of Pastor Brunson – Throughout 2018, Senator Tillis worked to help secure the release of Pastor Andrew Brunson, a North Carolina native, who was facing an effective life sentence in Turkey, accused of crimes he did not commit. In March 2018, Senator Tillis visited Pastor Brunson in a Turkish prison and Tillis returned three weeks later for the first hearing of his trial. On April 20th, Senator Tillis led a bipartisan letter signed by 71 senators to President Erdogan calling for his release and Tillis spoke on the Senate floor nearly every week the Senate was in session to call for his release and bring attention to his plight. Senator Tillis took legislative action to apply pressure on Turkey, working on a bipartisan basis to secure language in the FY19 NDAA that would effectively delay the transfer of F-35s to Turkey. The Turkish Government finally released Pastor Brunson in October 2018. Tillis Secures Full Reimbursement of $35.2 Million Owed to Swain County – In the early 1940s, the federal government flooded several communities in Swain County to build the Fontana Dam. In 1943, the federal government promised to rebuild the 30-mile North Shore Road. For over six decades the government failed to deliver on that promise and, in 2007, agreed to a cash settlement of $52 million. After waiting more than a decade, Senator Tillis helped secure the remaining $35.2 million owed to Swain County from the North Shore Road settlement. This settlement will be essential in the development and upkeep of Swain County for future generations. Swain County will not have access to the principal amount, but will be able to collect interest and use the funds for economic development and other projects. Tillis Bipartisan Legislation to Help Veterans Applying for Commercial Driver’s Licenses Becomes Law – The brave men and women that serve in the U.S. military learn a wide-range of skills applicable to jobs once they enter the civilian workforce, but too often face unnecessary barriers that make it harder for them to find jobs. Senators Tillis, John Cornyn (R-TX) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) successfully pushed legislation into law that allows active-duty military, reservists, and veterans to apply the experience they gained serving our nation in a civilian capacity and not force them to go through a duplicative credentialing process to obtain a commercial driver’s license. Tillis Bipartisan Legislation Holding VA Executives Accountable Signed Into Law – There are numerous instances within the VA where Senior Executive Service (SES) employees used their leadership positions as leverage to be reassigned to another position for their own personal gain, or were reassigned, rather than disciplined, for poor performance. As a result, Senators Tillis and Angus King (I-ME) introduced the VA Senior Executive Accountability (SEA) Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation that will strengthen accountability of senior executives at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The legislation was codified into law in 2018. Tillis Bipartisan Legislation Holding VA Executives Accountable Signed Into Law – There are numerous instances within the VA where Senior Executive Service (SES) employees used their leadership positions as leverage to be reassigned to another position for their own personal gain, or were reassigned, rather than disciplined, for poor performance. As a result, Senators Tillis and Angus King (I-ME) introduced the VA Senior Executive Accountability (SEA) Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation that will strengthen accountability of senior executives at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The legislation was codified into law in 2018. Tillis & Warren Successfully Urge IRS to Protect Lower-Income Military Retirees from Losing Retirement Benefits – In October of 2017, the IRS expanded its application of the Federal Payment Levy Program (FPLP) to include military payments so they could impose a levy on retirement payments to veterans in an effort to recoup back taxes. But unlike its application of the FPLP to other federal benefits, the IRS did not apply a low-income filter to exempt military retirees who would suffer economic hardship from having their payments levied. In response, Senators Tillis and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) argued and successfully changed the policy so that the IRS applied the low-income filter to military retirees - the same way the IRS applies the filter to lower-income Americans receiving Social Security benefits - so that lower-income military retirees are not denied critical benefits they need to stay afloat financially. Tillis Provisions Included in Bipartisan Legislation to Expand Veterans’ Access to Care – Senator Tillis was a strong advocate for the landmark VA MISSION Act, bipartisan legislation that strengthens health care services at the VA while streamlining the department’s community care programs to ensure veterans receive efficient, timely and quality care, whether inside the VA system or from providers in their communities The legislation includes two provisions authored by Senator Tillis that allows the VA to use a third-party entity to electronically process health care claims from medical providers and authorizes the VA to implement pilot programs for new and innovative payment and delivery models for VA health care that will allow the department to modernize and adapt to the ever-changing needs of the veteran population. Tillis & Shaheen Re-establish Senate NATO Observer Group – At a time when the NATO alliance is more important than ever, Senator Tillis and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) announced the re-establishment of the Senate North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Observer Group. This re-established Observer Group, which is co-chaired by Senators Tillis and Shaheen, has an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability, NATO enlargement and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. Tillis and Burr Secure $147 Million Infrastructure Grant for Eastern North Carolina – Senator Tillis worked with Senator Burr and the NC delegation to secure a $147 million grant for key infrastructure projects across Eastern North Carolina’s highway corridors. The grant, which will be the largest infrastructure project in the state, will help widen up to 25 miles of road along I-95 and upgrade the remaining sections of U.S. 70 to interstate grade, allowing the freeway to become I-42. Tillis and Burr Secure Additional $189 Million for Hurricane Matthew Recovery – Following the destruction caused by Hurricane Matthew in 2016, Senator Tillis worked with Senator Burr and the North Carolina delegation to secure funding for rebuilding efforts in North Carolina and successfully negotiated an additional $189 million for recovery efforts. These funds were secured by the North Carolina delegation in the Senate budget agreement passed in February and brought the total funds North Carolina received to over $1.4 billion through Congressional appropriations and grants. Tillis Works Across the Aisle To Get The Bipartisan Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act Signed Into Law – Following the passage of Dodd-Frank, many financial institutions across the county were unable to handle the one-size-fits-all model of regulations imposed on them, no matter their size. As a result, many of these institutions were forced to close or consolidate, greatly reducing the access to capital for consumers and small business owners. For example, in March of 2008, North Carolina had 102 banks headquartered in the state. Due to accelerated consolidation after the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the number of North Carolina-headquartered banks fell to 50 as of March 2018. In response, Tillis worked with his colleagues on the bipartisan Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, to provide relief for smaller financial institutions from Dodd-Frank regulations that were meant for the biggest, most complex institutions, while also ensuring a safe financial system. Tillis Bipartisan Legislation to Help American Consumers Signed Into Law – The residential ceiling fan market is roughly $1.8 billion, with 15 million units moved annually, and there were two efficiency requirement regulations on ceiling fans that would begin enforcement one year apart from each other: light bulbs in January 2019 and motors in January 2020. The staggered timing of the regulations would have wasted time and tens of millions of dollars in total compliance costs would ultimately limit affordability and availability for American consumers. Senators Tillis and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) introduced and passed bipartisan legislation that makes a simple change to synchronize the implementation of both regulations on the single enforcement date in 2020, avoiding wasteful costs that could have been passed onto Americans families. Tillis Secures $53 Million for State Veterans Home Construction in North Carolina – Last year, Senator Tillis led an appropriations letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations to urge them to provide robust funding for the VA State Home Construction Grant Program. As a result, Senator Tillis secured $53 million to fund three North Carolina State Veterans Home construction projects through the VA State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program. Tillis Provisions Leveling the Playing Field for Public HBCUs Included in Farm Bill – HBCUs have been facing an outdated provision that prohibited 1890 land grants (all HBCUs) from carrying over more than 20% of all extension funding. To eliminate this unfair and constraining funding limit, Senator Tillis introduced bipartisan legislation that was included in the Farm Bill to give HBCUs the same financial flexibility that other land grants currently enjoy. Tillis Co-Introduced Legislation To Spur Investment In Rural Businesses And Create Rural Jobs Included in Farm Bill – In an effort to expand access to much-needed resources and investment for rural entrepreneurs to start and expand local businesses, Senator Tillis introduced bipartisan legislation that was included in the Farm Bill that creates a new grant program to invest in local efforts to launch new companies and create new jobs in rural communities. Tillis Provisions Helping North Carolina Ag and Textiles Included in Bipartisan Farm Bill – 2018 was one of the most challenging in recent memory for North Carolina agriculture. From depressed commodity prices to a second devastating hurricane in two years, North Carolina farmers needed certainty and predictability, and Senator Tillis worked with his colleagues on the bipartisan Farm Bill on behalf of North Carolina’s farmers. Tillis-championed provisions in the Farm Bill include: Continued full funding for programs that help keep NC cotton and textiles competitive. $10 million in authorized funding for the newly established Rural Innovation Stronger Economy Grant Program (RISE) to create jobs in rural communities with additional provisions that allow investment in business incubators, makerspaces, and job training centers, and that expand access to capital for rural entrepreneurs. $300 million in funding for North Carolina’s livestock and poultry industries to adequately defend against and respond to the threat of foreign animal diseases. Improvements to crucial risk management tools, such as crop insurance, that allow North Carolina farmers to manage unpredictable risks such as adverse weather. ###
01.02.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) urged Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to make more relentless and effective efforts to bring abducted American children back home to the United States by using all of the tools and resources at the State Department’s disposal. Every year, several hundred American children are abducted by one parent and brought to a foreign country, where they are isolated from their other parent, family members, and friends. Abduction can have a profound impact on a child’s mental, physical, and emotional well-being. In their letter to Secretary Pompeo, Senators Tillis and Feinstein noted that in 2014, Congress passed the Sean and David Goldman International Child Abduction Prevention and Return Act, which gave the State Department a variety of tools to pressure foreign governments to bring abducted children back home. These tools range from official public condemnations to the withdrawal of development assistance. However, the Senators also noted that since the legislation became law, the State Department has used demarches—which are simple diplomatic communications— as the sole means of attempting to secure a child’s return, with little results to show for it. “The 2018 [State Department] annual report and subsequent action report demonstrate the State Department is still failing to use all of the tools necessary to secure the return of our American children even though multiple hearings the Senate and House have rejected the demarches-only approach,” wrote Senators Tillis and Feinstein. “This approach is clearly failing. The number of children kidnapped from and then returned to the U.S. has shown no measurable improvement over the years. Simply issuing demarches, raising cases with foreign government officials and empty threats are not American bringing children home.” “…We write to you today to again urge the Department of State to use all the tools and resources at its disposal to bring these abducted children home,”continued Senators Tillis and Feinstein. “As United States Senators, we cannot simply sit by and watch the State Department continue to issue ineffective demarches while countries continue to shelter those who abduct our citizen-children. We are committed to ensuring the return of every American child abducted abroad and we will not stop working on their behalf.” Read Senator Tillis and Feinstein’s full letter to Secretary Pompeo here. ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, bipartisan legislation supported by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) addressing issues with the Coastal Barrier Resources maps passed the Senate and now heads to the President’s desk. The Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of 2018 makes technical corrections to the Coastal Barrier Resources maps that are adversely affecting areas along North Carolina’s southern coast. “This legislation will partially correct a longstanding issue that has prevented many of our coastal residents from getting the federal resources they need,” said Senator Tillis. “While this legislation doesn’t fully resolve the error created when the maps were originally drawn, it is a significant improvement, and I remain committed to making sure that we fully resolve the original mapping error.” The Coastal Barrier Resources Act (CBRA) was signed into law in 1982 and works to preserve our nation’s barrier islands by barring federal funds and financial assistance from being used there. The legislation maintains these protections for our nation’s barrier islands, while correcting portions of the map that were erroneously included in the CBRA zones. Senator Tillis previously introduced S.1745 to revise the boundaries of John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System Unit located in North Topsail Beach, North Carolina. ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the President for signing the 2018 Farm Bill into law. The bipartisan legislation included multiple wins for North Carolina’s farmers, including legislation he co-sponsored that delists hemp as a controlled substance, allowing NC’s hemp farming industry to continue to grow. The bill also includes the Carryover Equity Act (S.2384), legislation co-sponsored by Tillis which allows HBCUs the same financial flexibility that other land grants currently enjoy by eliminating an outdated provision that prohibited 1890 land grants (all HBCUs) from carrying over more than 20% of all extension funding. “The bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill is a win for America’s farmers following a tough year consisting of trade disputes and natural disasters,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud the final version of this legislation contained multiple provisions I fought for on behalf of North Carolina’s farmers, including legislation to spur investment in rural businesses and to keep North Carolina’s textile and cotton industries globally competitive. I am also glad the Carryover Equity Act to give HBCUs the same financial flexibility that other land grants enjoy was included. I’m grateful to Chairman Roberts for his leadership in developing and building support for this important bipartisan legislation and to President Trump for signing it into law.” Tillis-championed provisions in the Farm Bill include: The Rural Jobs and Investment Act, bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Senators Tillis, Cassidy and Gillibrand. The bill spurs investment in rural business and creates rural jobs by creating a new grant program, the Rural Innovation Stronger Economy (RISE) program. Administered by USDA, the program will provide grant funding to rural entrepreneurs and job accelerators. Additionally, the bill expands rural businesses access to capital. The Carryover Equity Act, bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Tillis which allows HBCUs the same financial flexibility that other land grants currently enjoy by eliminating an outdated provision that prohibited 1890 land grants (all HBCUs) from carrying over more than 20% of all extension funding. The Hemp Farming Act of 2018 bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Tillis which delists hemp from as a controlled substance, allowing for the continued growth of North Carolina’s hemp farming industry. Expansion of USDA’s ability to conduct pilots on mobile technologies for accessing SNAP program benefits. Maintaining cotton and textile programs which support the continued competitiveness of North Carolina’s cotton and textile industries. Funding and provisions to protect NC livestock industry from the threat of foreign animal diseases - $300 million in mandatory funding for research, testing, and a vaccine stockpile. Funding for the Foreign Market Development program, the Market Access Program, and the Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops program all of which are designed to promote U.S. agricultural exports. Securing an update to what is known as the 10 Acre Rule. Many NC farms are “patchworked” together meaning lots of small parcels compile a larger, complete farm. However, existing commodity support program eligibility rules prevent farmers that patchwork their parcels to make up more than 10 acres total from participating. ###
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate unanimously passed bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to aid in the fight against human trafficking. The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017 would renew existing programs that make federal resources available to human trafficking survivors and establish new prevention, prosecution and collaboration initiatives to help bring the perpetrators to justice. The bill was unanimously passed in the House of Representatives earlier this year and now must be signed by President Trump before becoming law. “We should be doing everything in our power to stop human traffickers and give victims the justice they deserve,” said Senator Tillis. “The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017 will make resources available to survivors of human trafficking and streamline the federal response to prevent and prosecute those responsible for these reprehensible actions.” Education and public information is a critical first line of defense against human trafficking. This bill promotes the screening of human trafficking victims by ensuring that school resource officers and other school personnel receive training on how to identify and respond to victims. It also calls for advanced training of federal investigators who pursue human traffickers. The legislation also allows prosecutors to enjoin conduct that violates human trafficking statutes, and allows the U.S. Secret Service to offer investigative and forensic assistance to other law enforcement agencies to combat human trafficking. The legislation additionally improves coordination among federal agencies through consolidation of federal agency data reporting at the FBI and by requiring the Homeland Security Department to submit annual assessments of the human trafficking investigations. A fact sheet on the legislation can be found here. ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the unanimous Senate passage of the Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act, bipartisan legislation he co-introduced to ensure the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reimburses veterans for missed or underpaid GI Bill housing benefits. The legislation was introduced to address the VA’s failure to fully comply with updated Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) rates set by the Forever GI Bill. The improper payments resulted from IT systems that had not been properly updated and lack of internal processes to get the VA the necessary information about payment rates. The Forever GI Bill directed VA to calculate BAH rates based on the zip code of where the student takes the majority of classes, rather than on the zip code in which the school’s main campus is located. The implementation of this change before the IT system had been updated, in addition to a realignment of VA and DOD housing allowance rates, led to delayed and improper payments for student veterans. “I want to thank my Senate colleagues for quickly passing the legislation to ensure student veterans receive the proper GI Bill payments,” said Senator Tillis. “I strongly urge the House to pass this legislation before the end of the year so we can address this issue and make GI beneficiaries whole again.” Joining Senator Tillis to introduce the legislation were Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Jon Tester (D-MT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Brian Schatz (D-HI), and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT). The bill would require the VA to: End improper payments as soon as possible; Establish a team of specialists who will be responsible to report to Congress a detailed plan to correct this error; Provide a report to Congress by July 2020 that identifies how many beneficiaries were impacted and to what extent, aggregated by state; and Certify the department is fully compliant with the law. Anyone requiring assistance with their GI Bill benefit or experiencing financial hardship due to a delay in payment are encouraged to contact the VA Education Call Center at 1-888-442-4551 or online at https://gibill.custhelp.va.gov/app/utils/login_form/redirect/ask. They may also contact Senator Tillis’ office at 919-856-4630 or at tillis.senate.gov and someone will assist them directly. ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Personnel, issued the following statement: “Jim Mattis is the definition of an American Patriot. From his enlistment in the Marine Corps to his service as Secretary of Defense, he has always served our nation with honor and integrity. He has helped transform the Pentagon over the last two years, prioritizing the personnel, training, readiness, and modernization of our Armed Forces. America is safer and more secure today than it was at the beginning of his tenure because of his tremendous leadership, and I am grateful for his service to our nation.” ###
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Administration’s intention to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria: “While I support the President’s goal of removing American troops from harm’s way, we need to make sure the withdrawal of America’s presence from Syria is done the right way, at the right time. We cannot afford to repeat the mistake of the Obama Administration’s decision to prematurely withdraw from Iraq, which led to the rise of ISIS. I have concerns that withdrawal from Syria at the current time could lead to the resurgence of ISIS and provide a boost to Russia and Iran, giving those regimes a green light to expand their malign activities in the region. As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I will be asking administration officials for details about the plan, including how it aligns with America’s national security strategy.” ###
12.19.2018	Tillis Worked to Improve and Build Support for the Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded passage of the First Step Act, once in a generation bipartisan legislation that reforms America’s criminal justice system. Senator Tillis worked hand in hand with Chairman Grassley, his Senate colleagues, and federal, state and local law enforcement on changes that would build additional support for the bipartisan legislation. A summary of the update can be found HERE. “The First Step Act is the most significant reform to our broken criminal justice system in a generation,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I was proud to work with Chairman Grassley and my Senate colleagues to help improve this legislation and build the support needed to get it across the finish line. Passing criminal justice reform produced historic results in North Carolina, and I look forward to those benefits being replicated on the federal level.” Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley praised Senator Tillis for his work to improve the First Step Act: “Sen. Tillis has been instrumental in advancing bipartisan criminal justice reform. His continued engagement has helped to promote policy that reduces crime and recidivism, saves tax dollars, improves fairness in sentencing and supports law enforcement,” said Chairman Chuck Grassley. The comprehensive package aims to reduce crime by helping low-risk inmates prepare to successfully rejoin society through participation in proven recidivism reduction and professional development programs. It also improves fairness in prison sentences by recalibrating certain mandatory minimum sentences, granting greater discretion for judges in the sentencing of low-level, nonviolent drug crimes and clarifying congressional intent on sentencing enhancements for certain crimes involving firearms. It also preserves the maximum potential sentences for violent and career criminals. The legislation also allows petitions for retroactive application of the Fair Sentencing Act to be considered on an individual basis to reduce sentence disparities between crack and powder cocaine offenses. Senator Tillis has been a longtime advocate of criminal justice reform, recognizing that it can strike the balance between reducing crime and making our justice system more equitable, when done right. As North Carolina Speaker of the House in 2011, he spearheaded the passage of the Justice Reinvestment Act, sweeping criminal justice reform legislation. The law places an emphasis on rehabilitation and reducing the likelihood of returning to prison, requiring those incarcerated on felony charges to be supervised for 9 to 12 months following their release. The law has resulted in a reduction in North Carolina’s prison population and a significant, double-digit decrease in the recidivism rate. The N.C. Department of Public Safety estimates that the law has also saved hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars over the last several years. Text is available HERE ###
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored a bipartisan resolution calling for a prompt multinational freedom of navigation operation in the Black Sea and the cancellation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline in response to Russia’s recent aggressive actions in the Kerch Strait and the Sea of Azov. “Russian aggression in Ukraine and throughout Eastern Europe has gone on for far too long,” said Senator Tillis. “Their most recent actions in the Kerch Strait and the Sea of Azoz are unacceptable and I am proud to be a part of this resolution calling for an appropriate response.” Tillis serves as the co-chair of the Senate NATO Observer Group and has strongly supported imposing sanctions on the Russian government for its various transgressions across the world, including meddling in the elections of the United States and other Western democracies, unlawfully invading Crimea, and assassinating journalists and dissidents. Full text of the resolution can be found here. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement following the U.S. Solar Market Insight Report from Wood Mackenzie Power & Renewables and the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) that section 201 solar tariffs played a role in the decline of utility-scale solar installations in the third quarter: “The growth of solar energy in North Carolina has created thousands of jobs, generated billions of dollars of investment, and fostered economic development. Since the imposition of tariffs, North Carolina has experienced an exponential decrease in solar investment and projects planned. I have worked to highlight the negative impact tariffs are having on the economic growth provided by our solar industry and have urged the Administration to reconsider the scope of this tariff through the exclusion process. I will continue to advocate for the exclusion of advanced technologies that have the capability to modernize our grid and make the American solar energy industry globally competitive.” For the first time since 2015, quarterly additions of utility-scale solar photovoltaics (PV) fell below 1 gigawatt (GW), highlighting the impact of the tariffs and the uncertainty surrounding them in late 2017 and early 2018. As a result, the U.S. solar market was down 15 percent year-over-year in the third quarter of the year. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded passage of bipartisan legislation to reform the process to pursue claims of sexual harassment or other workplace discrimination experienced on Capitol Hill is headed to the president’s desk. The legislation would reform the dispute resolution process, protect workers, increase transparency and hold Members of Congress accountable. “It is my hope this important legislation sends a message that sexual harassment or workplace discrimination is unacceptable not only in the United States Congress but in every industry across the country. Workers deserve to have a safe work environment and no one ever feels threatened to come forward with a dispute,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation will bring a more transparent dispute process to Capitol Hill so Americans have faith that Members of Congress are being held accountable for bad actions and workers are protected in the workplace.” This legislation would change the way harassment claims are handled in Congress by eliminating the required 30-day “counseling” period, the required 30-day mediation phase, and the 30-day “cooling off” period. The legislation would allow a victim to immediately pursue an administrative hearing or file a civil action. It would also hold Members of Congress personally liable by requiring them to reimburse the Treasury for awards and settlements stemming from acts of harassment they personally commit, including Members who leave office. Specifically, the legislation would: Hold Members of Congress personally liable by pay for awards and settlements stemming from acts of harassment and related retaliation they personally commit, including Members who leave office. Eliminate the required 30-day “counseling” period, the required 30-day mediation phase, and the 30-day “cooling off” period. Provide employees with access to a dedicated advocate who will provide consultation and assistance regarding proceedings before the Office of Compliance. Require public reporting of awards and settlements, including identifying if a Member of Congress was personally liable. Require awards or settlements to be automatically referred to the Committee on Ethics for claims against Members of Congress and senior staff. Extend protections under the Congressional Accountability Act to unpaid staff, including interns, detailees and fellows, and other Legislative Branch staff. Provide opportunities for employees to work remotely or request paid leave without fear of retribution. Require a survey of staff each Congress to examine the workplace culture on Capitol Hill. Provide additional support for state, district and regional Legislative Branch staff to ensure they have the same access to Office of Compliance resources, training opportunities, guidance and advice as Washington D.C. based legislative branch workers. Require the Office of Compliance to establish an electronic system for taking in claims by victims, tracking those claims throughout the process, and generating reports on various details of claims. ###
12.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded Senate passage of bipartisan legislation he co-introduced to bolster U.S. government efforts to prevent genocide and other human rights atrocities around the world. This bill, named in honor of the courageous, inspiring Holocaust survivor and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel, strengthens the U.S. government’s capability to prevent, mitigate, and respond to genocide and other mass atrocities wherever they may occur. The Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act (S. 1158) would establish a Mass Atrocities Task Force within the State Department to adequately monitor, analyze and address atrocities worldwide by coordinating multiple agencies across the U.S. government; identifying gaps in U.S. policy; and consulting with NGOs and other groups dedicated to atrocity prevention. The bill also recommends that the Director of National Intelligence include atrocity crime information in the Director’s annual report to Congress on U.S. national security threats, and authorizes training for U.S. Foreign Service Officers in recognizing and reporting on early signs of atrocities and transitional justice measures. “The United States must continue to be a leader in preventing genocide and other human rights violations around the world,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation will strengthen our government’s effectiveness in combatting these atrocities, and I hope this legislation is quickly taken up by the House so it can be signed into law.” The full bill text is at this link. The legislation: Affirms the importance of strengthening U.S. efforts around mass atrocities through interagency tools like the Atrocities Prevention Board (APB); States that preventing genocide and mass atrocities are core U.S. national security interests and calls on the Administration to pursue a government-wide strategy to: strengthen U.S. diplomatic, risk analysis/monitoring, early warning, and response capacities around atrocity crimes; improve the use of U.S. foreign assistance to address the root causes of violent conflict; strengthen support to transitional justice mechanisms and local civil society groups in countries at risk of or experiencing mass atrocities; prioritize preventative diplomacy through unilateral, bilateral, and multilateral mechanisms; Requires specialized training for Foreign Service Officers who will be deployed to a country experiencing or at risk of mass atrocities; and Mandates annual reporting to Congress of Administration efforts to prevent and respond to mass atrocities and an assessment of countries and regions at risk of such violence. Joining the bill as cosponsors were U.S. Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD), Todd Young (R-IN), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the Senate’s unanimous passage of bipartisan legislation he co-introduced that secures new protections for minors and improves accountability measures in the federal juvenile justice grant program. “I applaud the Senate on passing this important bipartisan legislation to support juvenile justice and delinquency prevention because I’ve seen the direct result of that progress in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Reauthorization Act is a commonsense, bipartisan compromise that will produce those outcomes on the federal level, and I urge the House of Representatives to pass this same legislation quickly so it can be signed into law.” In 2011, as North Carolina Speaker of the House, Tillis spearheaded the passage of the Justice Reinvestment Act, sweeping criminal justice reform legislation. Tillis has been continued to lead on criminal justice reform at the federal level, and is currently working to build support and pass the First Step Act out of Congress. Earlier this week, legislation Tillis co-sponsored protecting victims of child abuse unanimously passed the Senate. The legislation, called the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2018, takes steps to reduce the unnecessary incarceration of youth, improves safeguards for minors who encounter the justice system and strengthens services that encourage a smooth transition back into society. This bill is a bicameral compromise that blends the previous Senate and House versions. The original Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act was enacted in 1974 to ensure the safety of at-risk youth who enter the juvenile justice system, and assist states with delinquency prevention programs and activities. The program has not been updated since 2002 and is long overdue to be reauthorized. The bill improves the existing law by: Improving treatment for juvenile offenders with mental illness and substance abuse issues; Encouraging states to make efforts to identify, report and reduce racial and ethnic disparities for youth who enter the juvenile justice system; Supporting alternatives to incarceration, such as problem-solving courts; and Strengthening oversight of the federal grant program and holding states accountable for failing to meet core grant requirements to protect the safety of minors in the justice system. This bill is expected to be taken up in the House of Representatives on suspension and quickly sent to the President for signature to become law. ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the unanimous passage of the Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act, bipartisan legislation he co-sponsored that would, for the first time, create a public health infrastructure across the country to combat Alzheimer’s disease and preserve brain health. The BOLD Act now heads to the House of Representatives for consideration. “This legislation has a deep personal meaning for me, as I was a caregiver for my grandmother during her battle with Alzheimer’s disease,” said Senator Tillis. “We should be moving heaven and earth to combat this terrible disease, and the BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act will create the framework necessary to preserve brain health for millions of Americans.” More than five million Americans are living with Alzheimer’s, and the United States spends more than $277 billion per year, including $186 billion in costs to Medicare and Medicaid. In North Carolina, more than 170,000 people are living with the disease, and over 466,0000 family members and friends are providing care. Without further action, the number of Americans with Alzheimer’s is expected to triple to as many as 14 million by 2050, costing the nation more than $1.1 trillion per year. This legislation would apply a public health approach to reduce risk, detect early symptoms, advance care, improve data, and ultimately change the trajectory of this devastating disease. Headed by the Centers for Disease and Prevention (CDC), it would authorize $20 million annually over the next five years to establish: Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Public Health Centers of Excellence dedicated to promoting effective Alzheimer’s disease and caregiving interventions as well as educating the public on Alzheimer’s disease, cognitive decline, and brain health. The centers would implement the CDC’s Healthy Aging Public Health Road Map, and would take key steps to support health and social services professionals as well as families and communities. Cooperative Agreements with the CDC that would be awarded to State Health Departments to help them meet local needs in promoting brain health, reducing risk of cognitive decline, improving care for those with Alzheimer’s, and other key public health activities. Data Grants to improve the analysis and timely reporting of data on Alzheimer’s, cognitive decline, caregiving, and health disparities at the state and national levels. The BOLD Act is cosponsored by a total of 57 Senators and supported by 183 organizations and individuals, including the Alzheimer’s Association, Alzheimer’s Impact Movement, and Maria Shriver, founder of The Women’s Alzheimer’s Movement. Representatives Brett Guthrie (R-Ky.) and Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.) introduced a companion bill in the House of Representatives, which is cosponsored by 251 members. ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley praised Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) for his work to improve the First Step Act, bipartisan legislation to reform America’s criminal justice system. Senator Tillis worked with Chairman Grassley his Senate colleagues on changes that would build additional support for the bipartisan legislation. The revised legislation further clarifies eligibility for earned time credits following successful completion of evidence-based recidivism reduction programs, and expands on the existing list of disqualifying offenses. The changes address points raised by some law enforcement groups and provides for additional transparency in the Bureau of Prisons’ risk assessment framework. “Sen. Tillis has been instrumental in advancing bipartisan criminal justice reform. His continued engagement has helped to promote policy that reduces crime and recidivism, saves tax dollars, improves fairness in sentencing and supports law enforcement,” said Chairman Chuck Grassley. “I look forward to building on our work together to pass the First Step Act.” “I want to thank Chairman Grassley for being willing to discuss changes to the First Step Act that would improve the bill and help build support among members of the Senate so we can pass historical criminal justice reform at the federal level,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “One of my proudest moments as Speaker of the House in North Carolina was passing the Justice Reinvestment Act, a landmark state law that implemented a number of commonsense, bipartisan reforms that resulted in reduced crime, fewer prisons, and lower recidivism rates in North Carolina. The First Step Act is our opportunity to replicate those successes across the country, and I am proud to work on this bipartisan compromise that has widespread support throughout the Senate and I will continue to work to get it across the finish line.” The comprehensive package aims to reduce crime by helping low-risk inmates prepare to successfully rejoin society through participation in proven recidivism reduction and professional development programs. It also improves fairness in prison sentences by recalibrating certain mandatory minimum sentences, granting greater discretion for judges in sentencing of low-level, nonviolent drug crimes and clarifying congressional intent on sentencing enhancements for certain crimes involving firearms. It also preserves the maximum potential sentences for violent and career criminals. The legislation also allows petitions for retroactive application of the Fair Sentencing Act to be considered on an individual basis to reduce sentence disparities between crack and powder cocaine offenses. Senator Tillis has been a longtime advocate of criminal justice reform, recognizing that it can strike the balance between reducing crime and making our justice system more equitable, when done right. As North Carolina Speaker of the House in 2011, he spearheaded the passage of the Justice Reinvestment Act, sweeping criminal justice reform legislation. The law places an emphasis on rehabilitation and reducing the likelihood of returning to prison, requiring those incarcerated on felony charges to be supervised for 9 to 12 months following their release. The law has resulted in a reduction in North Carolina’s prison population and a significant, double-digit decrease in the recidivism rate. The N.C. Department of Public Safety estimates that the law has also saved hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars over the last several years. A summary of the update can be found HERE. Text is available HERE. ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Tom Cotton (R-AR), and David Perdue (R-GA) wrote a letter to Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin requesting an update on the progress being made by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) to reform the systematically important designation process for nonbank financial companies. In November of 2017, the U.S. Department of the Treasury maderecommendations on ways to improve FSOC’s designation processes for nonbank financial companies. Passage of Dodd-Frank in 2010 established FSOC with the authority to determine that certain nonbank financial companies shall be supervised by the Federal Reserve and subject to enhanced prudential standards. This additional oversight and regulation, including capital requirements and a mandate to submit living wills to the Federal Reserve and FDIC, pose burdensome compliance costs on companies with the designation. To address concerns about transparency and the analytical process FSOC applies in making decisions about particular firms, the U.S. Treasury recommended in their report that FSOC prioritize its efforts to address risks to financial stability through a process that emphasizes an activities-based or industry-wide approach and implement a process for assessing and addressing potential risks to financial stability. “We are grateful for the work of you and your staff on the Treasury Department’s November 2017 Report of Financial Stability Oversight Council Designation,” wrote the Senators. “While we still agree that Congress should make statutory changes, in the interim we believe meaningful reforms can and should be made administratively. Now that we have exceeded the one-year anniversary of the Report’s publication, we would value an update on the implementation of the recommended reforms.” Click HERE to read the letter. ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the unanimous Senate passage of bipartisan legislation he co-sponsored to reauthorize the Victims of Child Abuse Act (VOCAA), which provides funding for Children’s Advocacy Centers that serve child abuse victims and help law enforcement hold perpetrators accountable. “Children’s Advocacy Centers play an important role supporting children who are victims of child abuse and assisting law enforcement officials in prosecuting those responsible,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank my Senate colleagues for unanimously passing this important legislation to reauthorize the Victims of Child Abuse Act and protecting our most vulnerable children in North Carolina and across the country.” Children’s Advocacy Centers employ a multi-disciplinary team of trained professionals to conduct forensic interviews of children who have been victims of abuse. These interviews are designed to be admissible in court while also preventing children from being re-traumatized by having to tell their accounts multiple times. Use of Children’s Advocacy Centers leads to faster criminal charging decisions in sexual abuse cases, increased felony prosecutions of child sexual abuse, and lower average per-case costs. The bill has garnered widespread support from the nation’s top advocacy groups, including the National Children’s Alliance, National Association of Prosecuting Attorneys, National Association of Police Organizations, National Sheriffs' Association, Fraternal Order of Police, and National District Attorneys Association. The bill is also backed by the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the North East Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Midwest Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Western Regional Children’s Advocacy Center, the Sergeants Benevolent Association, the National Children’s Advocacy Center, and the Southern Regional Children’s Advocacy Center. ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) to expand access to much-needed resources and investment for rural entrepreneurs to start and expand local businesses was included in the Farm Bill that passed the Senate earlier this week. The legislation now heads to the House of Representatives for a final vote. “Rural communities in North Carolina and across the country face limited access to capital to be able to start and expand their small businesses, resulting in lost economic activity and job creation in areas that need it most,” said Senator Tillis. “We should be doing everything we can to take advantage of the opportunities in these parts of the country, and I am proud the Rural Jobs and Investment Act was included in the Farm Bill to expand the resources rural entrepreneurs need to build companies and create new jobs.” The legislation creates a new grant program to invest in local efforts to launch new companies and create new jobs in rural communities. The grant program would invest up to $2 million per award to community-driven initiatives to help improve the local economies of rural areas by doing the following: Helping rural entrepreneurs and businesses connect to new markets; Providing skills training to prepare workers for quality jobs and providing businesses with the workforce they need for success; Investing in infrastructure upgrades required to support new business growth, including the deployment of high-speed internet service; Turning more research and development at universities and other research institutions into new companies and business growth; and Revitalizing downtowns with new innovation centers to serve as spaces for mixed-use housing, business development, training, and co-working. This bipartisan legislation would also expand the use of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Community Facilities Program to invest in business incubators, makerspaces, and job training centers to provide additional resources for communities to support their entrepreneurs. The Community Facilities Program provides direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants to improve public services and public facilities in rural communities. In addition, the bill would expand access to capital for rural entrepreneurs by encouraging investment in rural areas. Currently, the USDA has one program to help address these capital challenges, the Rural Business Investment Program, but this program is limited in the types of industries that it can invest in, as well as the amount of capital it can attract. This bipartisan bill has been endorsed by the American Farm Bureau, Farm Credit Council, National Association of Counties, National Association of Development Organizations, National Cooperative Business Association, and the Rural Community Assistance Partnership. ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Representative Bill Flores (R-TX) introduced the Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act of 2018 in the Senate and House of Representatives. The legislation would help ensure that alternative procedures for challenging drug patents do not tilt the playing field contrary to Hatch-Waxman’s design and make sure that drug manufacturers have the proper incentives to continue developing life-saving medications. “The biotechnology and life sciences industry undertakes tremendous risk and costs to develop new, life-saving drugs, with the vast majority of products never making it to the market at great expense to the manufacturer. These drugs save millions of lives every year and are a critical component of our nation’s healthcare system. While it is important to call out bad actors who price gouge, we must allow sufficient time and balance so companies can continue to develop life-saving drugs and help people with the countless illnesses and diseases that affect millions of Americans,” said Senator Tillis. “The Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act of 2018 will restore a proper balance in the market so that companies will continue to spend billions of dollars to develop life-saving and life-altering treatments. I want to thank Senator Hatch for his leadership on this issue and I look forward to building support for this bill within the Senate.” “As the coauthor and namesake of Hatch-Waxman, I have a keen interest in ensuring we have a well-functioning generic drug industry,” said Senator Hatch. “This means making sure that generic companies are able to develop drugs while also ensuring that brand companies have sufficient protections in place to recoup their investments. Hatch-Waxman struck a careful balance that achieved these goals and in doing so helped to create the modern generic drug industry. The Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act, which I’m pleased to be introducing today with Senator Tillis and Representative Flores, will help preserve that careful balance going by ensuring that newer, alternative procedures for challenging drug patents do not give one side an unintended advantage.” “The Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act ensures that America remains a leader in developing life-saving and accessible therapies, cures and treatments for patients,” said Representative Flores. “It restores an effective balance between the interests of brand-name and generic drug manufacturers so that innovation and competition will continue to flourish. “It is fulfilling to work with Senators Hatch and Tillis to modernize the Hatch-Waxman Act so that hardworking American families continue to benefit from health care innovation.” Background The Hatch-Waxman Integrity Act of 2018 would require a generic manufacturer wishing to challenge a brand-name drug patent to choose between the Hatch-Waxman framework, which affords certain advantages such as being able to rely on the drug innovator’s safety and efficacy studies for FDA approval, and inter partes review, or IPR, which is cheaper and faster than Hatch-Waxman litigation but does not provide the advantages of a streamlined generic approval process. The bill would apply similarly to patents on biologics. The bill would preserve Hatch-Waxman as the standard path for generic manufacturers to challenge brand patents, while keeping IPR as an option where other interests come into play. It would not have any impact on the use of IPR by the tech community. A copy of the bill text is available [here]. A detailed summary of the bill is available [here]. ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) supported the passage of the bipartisan Farm Bill Conference Report, which includes several provisions secured by Senator Tillis. The bipartisan report passed the Senate and will now head to the House for final passage. “This year has truly been one of the most challenging in recent memory for North Carolina agriculture. From depressed commodity prices to a second devastating hurricane in two years, North Carolina farmers need the certainty and predictability that this bipartisan measure will provide,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank the Chairman for his leadership and commitment to delivering a bipartisan bill.” Tillis-championed provisions in the Farm Bill include: Continued full funding for programs that help keep NC cotton and textiles competitive. $10 million in authorized funding for the newly established Rural Innovation Stronger Economy Grant Program (RISE) to create jobs in rural communities with additional provisions that allow investment in business incubators, makerspaces, and job training centers, and that expand access to capital for rural entrepreneurs. $300 million in funding for North Carolina’s livestock and poultry industries to adequately defend against and respond to the threat of foreign animal diseases. Improvements to crucial risk management tools, such as crop insurance, that allow North Carolina farmers to manage unpredictable risks such as adverse weather. ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded President Trump for signing the Amy, Vicky, and Andy Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act into law. The bipartisan legislation recognizes the unique kind of harm caused by child pornography and requires restitution in a manner that will support victims. The legislation helps child pornography victims seek restitution from defendants and gives victims the chance to receive a one-time fixed compensation payment from the existing Crime Victims Fund. The bill also allows victims access to the images depicting them, which can be important for victim identification, expert testimony, forensic review, and treatment. “Victims of child pornography deserve justice for the traumatic experiences they live through, and we must do everything we can to help make these individuals whole again,” said Senator Tillis. “The Amy, Vickey, and Andy Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act will allow those harmed by child pornography to receive support in their recovery and begin healing from these horrific acts.” The bill passed in the Senate by unanimous consent in January. With the help of Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-SC), the House sponsor of the bill, and House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), the House of Representatives passed an amended version of the bill by unanimous consent. In November, the Senate passed the amended bill by unanimous consent, and today, it was signed by the President into law. Additionally, the Amy, Vicky, and Andy Act has been endorsed by the National Organization for Victim Assistance, National Association of Attorneys General, National Crime Victims Law Institute, National District Attorneys Association, National Center for Victims of Crime, National Association of VOCA Assistance Administrators, National Crime Victims Bar Association, CHILD USA, RAINN, APSAC in partnership with The New York Foundling, Enough is Enough, Thorn, Academy on Violence and Abuse, DV LEAP, Utah Crime Victims Legal Clinic, Utah Coalition against Sexual Assault, and the Children’s Justice Fund. Background The Amy, Vicky, and Andy Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act includes the following provisions: Findings that focus on the unique nature of child pornography crime and how it harms victims A more relevant and predictable definition of “full amount of a victim’s losses” Restitution Child pornography production: victims receive full amount of their total losses Child pornography trafficking: victims receive from each defendant a minimum of $3,000 Compensation Victims of child pornography trafficking are entitled to receive a one-time payment of $35,000 in defined monetary assistance (which is indexed to inflation) from a Child Pornography Victims Reserve (CPVR) within the federal Crime Victims Fund (CVF) Caps fees for attorneys representing a victim seeking defined monetary assistance at 15% The court must assess defendants in child pornography cases to contribute to the CPVR: up to $17,000 for possession, up to $35,000 for distribution, and up to $50,000 for production crimes The CPVR will be capped at $10 million Victims of child pornography trafficking will enjoy the same priority in restitution payments as victims in other restitution statutes Child pornography victims have equal rights with criminal defendants to review the child pornography depicting them at a government facility or court for the purposes of furnishing expert testimony The Department of Justice must deliver a report to Congress within two years after passage about the Act’s implementation including an assessment of the funding levels for the Child Pornography Victims Reserve ###
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-introduced bipartisan legislation to ensure the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reimburses veterans for missed or underpaid GI Bill housing benefits. The legislation was introduced to address the VA’s failure to fully comply with updated Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) rates set by the Forever GI Bill. The improper payments resulted from IT systems that had not been properly updated and lack of internal processes to get the VA the necessary information about payment rates. The Forever GI Bill directed VA to calculate BAH rates based on the zip code of where the student takes the majority of classes, rather than on the zip code in which the school’s main campus is located. This requirement, in addition to a realignment of VA and DOD housing allowance rates, led to delayed and improper payments for student veterans. “Reports of veteran students receiving delayed or inadequate GI Bill payments are concerning, and this misstep should be corrected as soon as possible,” said Senator Tillis. “While the VA has already started taking important steps to address this ongoing issue, it is important for Congress to continue exercising rigorous oversight to ensure that all GI Bill beneficiaries are made whole.” Joining Senator Tillis to introduce the legislation were Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Jon Tester (D-MT), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Jerry Moran (R-KS). The bill would require the VA to: End improper payments as soon as possible; Establish a team of specialists who will be responsible to report to Congress a detailed plan to correct this error; Provide a report to Congress by July 2020 that identifies how many beneficiaries were impacted and to what extent, aggregated by state; and Certify the department is fully compliant with the law. Anyone requiring assistance with their GI Bill benefit or experiencing financial hardship due to a delay in payment are encouraged to contact the VA Education Call Center at 1-888-442-4551 or online at https://gibill.custhelp.va.gov/app/utils/login_form/redirect/ask. They may also contact Senator Tillis’ office at 919-856-4630 or at tillis.senate.gov and someone will assist them directly. ###
12.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, introduced a resolution to establish a John S. McCain III Human Rights Commission, modeled after the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives. If passed, the resolution would create a bipartisan commission to examine human rights violations through regular hearings and briefings, and promote human rights initiatives in the Senate. Joining Senators Tillis and Coons in introducing the resolution were Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Todd Young (R-IN), Ed Markey (D-MA), and Marco Rubio (R-FL). “Our late friend and colleague John McCain understood that promoting and defending human rights was a cornerstone of America’s foreign policy and an inherent way of advancing American values, from leading the passage of the Magnitsky Act to sanctioning authoritarian regimes that hold contempt for human life,” said Senator Tillis. “It’s an honor to join Senator Coons in proposing the establishment of the McCain Human Rights Commission, which will carry on John McCain’s legacy of shining a light on human rights abuses across the world and building bipartisan coalitions to take action.” “Senator McCain was a remarkable man who used his role in the Senate to advocate for human rights and to stand up for people around the world who were denied basic freedoms. He embodied our country’s values and understood the critical role of the United States in promoting human rights across the globe,” said Senator Coons. “I am hopeful that we can advance this legislation and honor Senator McCain’s legacy by establishing a bipartisan commission here in the Senate that is dedicated to raising awareness about human rights abuses and promoting human liberty around the world.” "John McCain understood the importance of American international leadership on human rights, and establishing this commission is an important and appropriate way to honor him and reinforce the central role of human rights in American foreign policy," said Senator Young. “This proposed commission would honor Senator John McCain, who dedicated his life to promoting and protecting the democratic and moral values that we as Americans cherish,” Senator Rubio said. “In the Senate, he was a tireless champion for the God-given rights of all people and worked to expose violations of human dignity in the darkest corners of the world. Today, on the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, I am proud to join my colleagues in continuing that work in the days ahead.” The text of the resolution is available here. ###
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored the First Step Act, bipartisan legislation to reform America’s criminal justice system. The First Step Act combines prison reform proposals that overwhelmingly passed in the House of Representatives earlier this year with sentencing reform provisions from the broadly bipartisan Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, which was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee in February. The comprehensive package aims to reduce crime by helping low-risk inmates prepare to successfully rejoin society through participation in proven recidivism reduction and professional development programs. It also improves fairness in prison sentences by recalibrating certain mandatory minimum sentences, granting greater discretion for judges in sentencing of low-level, nonviolent drug crimes and clarifying congressional intent on sentencing enhancements for certain crimes involving firearms. It also preserves the maximum potential sentences for violent and career criminals. The legislation also allows petitions for retroactive application of the Fair Sentencing Act to be considered on an individual basis to reduce sentence disparities between crack and powder cocaine offenses. “One of my proudest moments as Speaker of the House in North Carolina was passing the Justice Reinvestment Act, a landmark state law that implemented a number of commonsense, bipartisan reforms that resulted in reduced crime, fewer prisons, and lower recidivism rates in North Carolina. With the First Step Act, we now have the opportunity to implement similar, once in a generation criminal justice reforms at the federal level,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “These commonsense reforms will make our communities safer, modernize outdated and unfair sentencing laws and provide federal prisoners with the tools they need to return to society and become productive members of our communities. Chairman Grassley’s leadership has been unparalleled, and his relentless efforts to forge a bipartisan compromise on such a difficult issue should be applauded. I look forward to working with Chairman Grassley to build support for the First Step Act.” The First Step Act is endorsed by a number of law enforcement groups, including the nation’s largest police group. It’s also now supported by 172 former federal prosecutors including two former Republican U.S. attorneys general, two former deputy attorneys general and a former director of the FBI along with sheriffs from 34 states across the country. The National Governor’s Association, which represents the governors of all 50 states, also praised the bill. And a broad coalition of conservative, progressive and faith groups also support the bill. More information on the legislation can be found here: Bill text Fact sheet Section-by-section summary ###
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) announced they have secured three BUILD Transportation grants totaling more than $60 million for North Carolina: GoTriangle will receive $20 million. The project will construct a new bus facility and structured parking to create a multimodal transit center in downtown Raleigh. The project includes an off-street bus transfer facility, pedestrian bridge, BRT platform and other BRT infrastructure, on-street pedestrian improvements and wayfinding, traffic signal prioritization, and new rolling stock. The City of Hickory will receive $17 million for infrastructure investment and road improvements. The project will develop an approximately 1.7-mile bicycle and pedestrian trail and a bridge over US 321, and construct a 1.2-mile complete streetscape loop in downtown Hickory that will add designated space for bicycles and pedestrians. The North Carolina Department of Transportation will receive $23 million for Growing Rural Economy and Agriculture through Transportation and Technology Enhancement or Replacement in North Carolina (GREATTER-NC). The project will replace approximately 77 bridges in need of repair across 17 rural counties. The project sponsor will also add broadband capabilities for transportation applications to appropriate bridges during construction. Senator Thom Tillis: “These grants will be a tremendous help to the Triangle, the City of Hickory, and rural communities across North Carolina, allowing for improvements to our state’s transportation, infrastructure, and safety. I’m thankful to Secretary Chao for recognizing North Carolina’s infrastructure priorities and making a major investment through BUILD grants.” Senator Richard Burr: “I am grateful to Secretary Chao and the Department of Transportation for awarding North Carolina these vital grants to strengthen and improve infrastructure across the state. This new funding will help build 77 bridges and expand broadband access in rural communities, create new pedestrian and bike trails in the City of Hickory, and get the GoTriangle project closer to its goal of building a new, modern transportation hub for a fast-growing area.” GoTriangle President and CEO Jeff Mann: “This is an exciting day for GoTriangle, the City of Raleigh and our entire region because this facility is an important part of the transit network we are building together. We want to sincerely thank Senators Tillis and Burr as well as Congressman Price for their strong leadership and partnership in helping secure this grant that will enhance bus connectivity and spur new economic, job and housing opportunities for our community.” Hickory Mayor Hank Guess: “The $17 million BUILD grant is a major federal investment that will improve Hickory’s infrastructure and better connect our region. I’m grateful for Senators Tillis and Burr for working directly with the City of Hickory over the last year, their support was instrumental in securing the grant.” N.C. Department of Transportation Secretary James Trogdon: “NCDOT is pleased to have been chosen for a BUILD transportation grant. These funds will replace bridges in many rural communities that depend heavily upon the agriculture industry which is great news.” BUILD Transportation grants are for investments in surface transportation infrastructure and are awarded on a competitive basis for projects that will have a significant local or regional impact. BUILD funding can support roads, bridges, transit, rail, ports or intermodal transportation. ###
12.03.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis is continuing his bipartisan effort to support North Carolinians recovering from Hurricanes Florence and Michael with a direct appeal to Senate leadership urging support for disaster assistance for North Carolina farmers and the state’s agriculture community. In a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Tillis requested that Congress provide supplemental disaster funding to help with recovery from billions in agricultural losses from Hurricanes Florence and Michael. Joining Tillis were Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Doug Jones (D-AL), David Perdue (R-GA), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Tim Scott (R-SC), whose states were also affected by the September and October hurricanes. “We believe it is our duty as Members of Congress to step in and assist farmers and others who are in need,” the letter states. “We ask that as leaders of the United States Senate you direct this body to work with the House of Representatives to include emergency appropriations for those states affected by Hurricanes Florence and Michael in the next appropriations bill the Senate considers.” “Cotton was ruined during a crucial harvest period, destroying what promised to be a historically high yield. Peanuts, sweet potatoes, and a multitude of other fruits and vegetables that were not yet harvested rotted in the soil. High winds leveled acres of timber stands and pecan trees and demolished poultry, pork, and cattle barns, killing and dispersing animals and livestock,” the letter continued. Full text of the letter can be found here. ###
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of former President George H. W. Bush: “George H.W. Bush will be long remembered for dedicating his life to protecting and bettering the country he loved, from his heroic service as a Navy pilot during WWII, to his steady leadership as President, playing a pivotal role to end the Cold War. “He always made the tough decisions and put the nation’s interests first. A true testament to his character was his ability to befriend his old political rivals, a reminder that despite our differences, more unites the American people, including its leaders, than divides us. “Susan and I send our condolences to the Bush family and join the rest of the nation in honoring a great American.” ###
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s Congressional delegation received Governor Cooper’s disaster funding request as it continues its work to secure additional Hurricane Florence recovery funding from congressional appropriators to assist in rebuilding efforts in areas affected by the storm. The North Carolina Congressional delegation previously secured more than a billion dollars for the state’s long-term recovery in legislation passed in October. Click HERE to read the letter. “North Carolina suffered wide-spread devastation from Hurricane Florence, causing billions of dollars in damages to communities across our state,” said Senator Tillis. “The effort by Governor Cooper and the North Carolina state government to assess the damages caused by Hurricane Florence and submit a timely disaster funding request compliments the months-long work by the North Carolina Congressional delegation to ensure we receive additional federal relief to recover from this devastating storm.” “I stand with North Carolina’s Congressional delegation in supporting Governor Cooper’s request for additional disaster relief funding to help our fellow North Carolinians still hurting from Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Burr.“This additional funding is critical for helping our state get back on its feet soon and rebuilding after historic destruction. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Tillis, Governor Cooper, and our colleagues in the House to ensure North Carolina gets the Federal support it needs.” “Hurricane Florence was one of the most devastating storms in our state’s history. The disaster funding request letter, submitted by Governor Roy Cooper today, builds upon our delegation’s bipartisan work to deliver critical resources to help communities still struggling in the aftermath of the storm,” said Congressman Rouzer. “I applaud the state’s efforts and look forward to continuing our work, at all levels of the government, to help our state rebuild stronger than ever.” “As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I greatly appreciate Governor Cooper’s leadership in developing a disaster funding request based on sound data and analysis that will help guide our efforts in Washington,” said Congressman Price. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and my House and Senate delegation colleagues to secure necessary funding for North Carolina’s full recovery.” “I’ve made it a priority to secure critical funds to help our neighbors impacted by Hurricane Florence and will continue to work in a bipartisan manner with our Governor, our two Senators and our House delegation, said Congressman Hudson.” “I thank Governor Cooper for his steadfast leadership as our state works to rebuild from Hurricane Florence,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield “Today, Governor Cooper provided Congress with a thoughtful and comprehensive request for federal assistance in North Carolina’s Hurricane Florence recovery efforts. In the waning days of the 115th Congress, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to secure vital federal funding needed to help North Carolina recover even stronger than before.” “Hurricane Florence inflicted billions of dollars in damage, caused catastrophic flooding and upended the lives of families across North Carolina,” said Congressman Holding. “Individuals and businesses hurt by the storm are in need of relief. In October, Congress initially authorized a down payment for disaster relief while we awaited a full assessment of the damage. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the Carolinas have the resources needed to rebuild and recover from Hurricane Florence.” “Hurricane Florence was truly devasting to many families throughout North Carolina, ultimately causing billions of dollars in damage,” said Congresswoman Adams. “I thank Governor Cooper for his leadership during the ongoing recovery efforts and I proudly stand by his funding request, which will ensure that our state has the resources needed to make a full recovery.” ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, issued the following statement in response to Vice President Pence’s criticism of Burma’s treatment of the Rohingya: “As co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, we have repeatedly condemned the persecution of the Rohingya Muslims in Burma’s Rakhine State and called on the Government of Burma to release Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo. We applaud Vice President Pence for affirming the United States’ commitment to a free and independent press and delivering a strong criticism of the treatment of the Rohingya during his meeting with Burmese State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi at the ASEAN Summit on Wednesday. We join the Vice President in calling on the Government of Burma to hold the perpetrators of violence against the Rohingya accountable, and we are grateful to the people of Bangladesh for welcoming the more than 700,000 Rohingya who have been forced to flee their homes. We remain committed to supporting these refugees and urge the Government of Bangladesh to ensure that any repatriation of refugees to Burma is voluntary, safe, and dignified. The Government of Burma should take immediate steps to improve conditions for the Rohingya and other ethnic and religious minorities in Burma, including providing a pathway to citizenship for the Rohingya.” ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the FDA’s recent announcement on tobacco and vapor products: “I applaud the FDA’s commitment to developing a robust plan to combat underage use of e-vapor products. However, I hope the FDA revisits some of its actions affecting traditional products that have been marketed for decades. The FDA must remain committed to using a science-based regulatory framework in order to effectively reduce risks and minimize collateral damage that would ultimately limit options available to adults seeking an alternative to smoking.” ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Tim Scott (R-SC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Kamala Harris (D-CA) have introduced S. 3648, the Hurricanes Florence and Michael and California Wildfire Tax Relief Act, to aid victims of recent natural disasters. “The historic hurricanes that hit Florida and the Carolinas this year devastated communities across the Southeast,” said Senator Burr. “Homes were destroyed, businesses swept away and savings wiped out. It is critical that Congress act quickly to provide tax relief for those still struggling to rebuild their lives and livelihoods. This legislation provides several important tax breaks for eligible individuals and businesses that will help lessen the burdens they face and allow them to rebuild their futures. “ “Hurricane Florence had a devastating impact on North Carolina, creating financial hardship for many families across the state,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing bipartisan legislation that would provide much-needed relief for families and small businesses who have been hit by recent natural disasters, including North Carolinians affected by Hurricane Florence.” “Hurricanes Florence and Michael brought unimaginable devastation to South Carolina and surrounding states,” said Senator Graham. “This tax relief package will afford South Carolinians, and other Americans who have been impacted by disaster, greater flexibility in utilizing retirement account assets for immediate disaster-related needs. It’s similar to the legislation we passed to support Texans suffering in the wake of Hurricane Harvey in 2017. I applaud Senator Burr’s leadership on this issue and urge Congress to pass our legislation immediately.” “I’ve been working to ensure that Floridians who were affected by Hurricane Michael receive the support they need from the federal government, and one of the best ways to do that is to provide tax relief so that they can use their money to recover,”said Senator Rubio. “I am proud to work with my colleagues from other states experiencing natural disasters, including Senator Burr, to introduce this bill so that Americans affected by Hurricane Michael can continue rebuilding their lives and communities.” “It’s heartbreaking to see our communities devastated by wildfire and hurricanes,” said Senator Feinstein. “Our bipartisan bill will help families recover by providing them with much-needed tax relief as we begin to rebuild in the aftermath of these natural disasters.” “The wildfires that tore across California this year claimed precious lives, devastated communities, destroyed thousands of homes, and forced hundreds of thousands of Californians to evacuate,” said Senator Harris. “The road to recovery for these communities won’t be easy, and we have a responsibility to give them the federal support they desperately need. Today, I am proud to join with my colleagues to provide these families working to rebuild their lives with much-needed tax relief.” BackgroundThe Hurricane Florence and Michael and California Wildfire Tax Relief Act:· Allows more taxpayers to claim a deduction for personal casualty losses by removing requirement to itemize; · Removes penalties on certain hardship withdrawals from retirement accounts;· Encourages employers in hard-hit areas to retain employees;· Allows taxpayers to use earned income from the preceding year when claiming Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit;· Suspends limits on charitable contributions to disaster relief efforts.· Expands Opportunity Zones to hardest-hit areas. You can read a copy of the bill here. ###
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Tim Scott (R-SC) formally requested the next Senate appropriations bill include additional disaster relief for areas struggling in the wake of Hurricane Florence. In a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Richard Shelby (R-AL) and Vice Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-VT), the Senators praised the Committee’s quick response following the hurricane, which led to a $1.68 billion down payment passed in October. “Thanks to your assistance, state agencies across the Carolinas are already establishing plans to rebuild the hardest hit communities over the coming months and years,” the letter states. However, the letter adds, in the last two months, “A total of 51 counties have been declared disaster areas in North Carolina, including 34 for individual assistance, and in South Carolina, 19 counties have been declared, including 8 for individual assistance. Many of the communities affected by Hurricane Florence were also impacted by other severe flooding events within the last three years, further complicating the recovery and rebuilding efforts. In total, our states suffered combined damage totaling over $20 billion.” “It will take years for many communities to recover, requiring the combined efforts of state and federal agencies,” the letter continues. “In the near future we will provide the Senate Appropriations Committee and relevant subcommittees with funding requests and programmatic changes needed to further recovery efforts,” the Senators added. “It is our hope and request that emergency appropriations for states affected by Hurricane Florence be included in the next appropriations bill the Senate considers.” To read the entire letter, click here. ###
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the Corporate Governance Fairness Act, bipartisan legislation that would strengthen corporate governance and help ensure that investors may confidently rely on the advice of proxy advisory firms by requiring the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to regulate all major proxy advisory firms under the Investment Advisers Act (IAA). This advice is critical for investors as they decide how to vote their shares on important corporate governance matters, such as director elections or whether to sell the company. Joining Senator Tillis to introduce the bipartisan legislation are Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), David Perdue (R-GA), Doug Jones (D-AL), John Kennedy (R-LA) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND). “Proxy advisory firms play a crucial role in recommending investment decisions to investors, and it is important that clients can safely rely that the information being provided is in their best interest,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan Corporate Governance Fairness Act would hold proxy advisory firms accountable and strengthen the transparency of corporate governance matters so when investors might be voting on a new board member or deciding whether to sell a company they are invested in, they have all the information available.” The SEC is scheduled to hold a roundtable discussion on proxy advisory firms on November 15, and the bipartisan sponsors of the Corporate Governance Fairness Act are sending a strong signal that they want robust oversight of proxy advisory firms. The Corporate Governance Fairness Act would direct the SEC to conduct periodic examinations, which must include a serious review of the conflicts of interest policies of registered proxy advisory firms and whether firms knowingly made false statements to any of its clients. It also requires the SEC to consult with all relevant stakeholders and report back periodically to the Senate Banking Committee and the House Financial Services Committee with recommendations for any additional investor protections beyond continued access to proxy advisory firms so that investors have the tools to make informed investment decisions and exercise their rights as shareholders. Proxy advisory firms are an essential tool for investors, and the senators want to ensure they are well-regulated and held accountable as fiduciaries to the investors who rely on their advice. The Corporate Governance Fairness Act is supported by the Consumer Federation of America; SEC Investor Advisory Committee Member John Coates; the New York Stock Exchange; and the Society for Corporate Governance. “This is a thoughtful and balanced bill that brings the benefits of government oversight to the proxy advisory business while recognizing, and strengthening, the fiduciary duty that these firms owe to their investor clients. The Consumer Federation of America strongly supports its adoption,” said Barbara Roper, Director of Investor Protection for the Consumer Federation of America. “This well-considered bill would improve oversight of proxy advisors without impairing their ability to assist fiduciaries in carrying out their important roles in corporate governance,” said Harvard Law School Securities Regulation Professor John Coates, who is also a member of the SEC Investor Advisory Committee. “We strongly support this bipartisan bill that advances the regulation of proxy advisory firms under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Working together, the Corporate Governance Fairness Act strikes an important balance between the interests of our issuers and the value that proxy advisory firms offer to institutional investors. It will also place the oversight of these firms in the hands of the SEC, and ensure that the information that they provide to their institutional clients is factual and unbiased,” said Stacey Cunningham, President of the New York Stock Exchange. Darla Stuckey, President & CEO of the Society for Corporate Governance stated: “The Society applauds the bipartisan introduction of the Corporate Governance Fairness Act and commends the members of the Senate Banking Committee for coming together to provide real reform that strengthens America's capital markets, our public companies, and their shareholders. At a time when the influence of proxy advisory firms reaches all-time highs, the CGFA will provide the transparency and fairness to both investors and public companies that are the hallmarks of American capital markets. The Society for Corporate Governance supports the enactment of this bill.” ###
10.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) appeared on Meet the Press and discussed Saudi Arabia’s explanation on Khashoggi, health care reform, and the national debt. Click HERE to watch the full interview. Tillis on if he finds Saudi Arabia’s explanation on Khashoggi credible: “No, not at this point. We have to get to the bottom of this and figure out who in Saudi Arabia gave the order to do this and hold them accountable, even if that includes the Crown Prince. We need to work with Turkish officials to get as much information as we can so we can draw a conclusion and give the appropriate consequence and hold those who committed this horrible act accountable.” Tillis on the Saudi-U.S. relationship if the Crown Prince was involved and remains in power : “I don’t think we can have one. We can’t have someone who would authorize this sort of an act to be in a position of power in a nation that it is very important to us, but we need to explore the limits of our relationship if he is found to be involved. I know the State Department and Intelligence Community are taking this seriously and we are putting a lot of resources towards finding the truth. If the facts lead to the Crown Prince being involved, it will be very problematic for our relationship with them moving forward.” Tillis on health care and mandatory spending: “It is a false narrative to say Republicans want to get rid of protections for pre-existing conditions, and I filed a bill to protect those in the event that the courts deem the Affordable Care Act unconstitutional. We have to make changes to our health care system so it becomes sustainable for the long-term just like we need to for Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. Democrats are not mentioning the numerous reports that say if we stay on the current trajectory we are going to have a crisis. No one wants to take away these programs for those who need it, but we have to have sustainable solution and we need 60 votes to get that done.” Tillis on the U.S debt: “We can’t go further in debt, and I voted against the most recent spending bill because it was just too much money being spent. We have to make the American people recognize we have a powder keg of dynamite with our debt. We are reaching a point where the interest being paid on our debt could exceed the amount we spend on our military, so we need to balance our books and budget just like American families.” ###
10.13.2018	Pastor Andrew Brunson is finally back on American soil and reunited with his wonderful family. I was honored to welcome Andrew and Norine at the White House today. The two-year diplomatic and political nightmare is now over, which will help turn the page and hopefully lead to a stronger relationship between the U.S. and Turkey.
10.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the release of Pastor Andrew Brunson: “North Carolina native Pastor Brunson will soon return home to the United States, where he will be reunited with his family. While the Brunson family has been caught in the middle of a diplomatic and political nightmare for the last two years, their unwavering optimism and faith kept them strong during this very difficult and stressful time. Despite the anguish Pastor Brunson has had to endure locked away in prison with his fate uncertain, I was personally inspired when I watched him stand up in a Turkish courtroom during his trial – facing an effective lifetime sentence – and announce that he harbored no animosity or bitterness towards the individuals who falsely accused him. That is a testament to his incredible character and devotion to the principles of his faith, which he shared with the Turkish people for more than twenty years. “When I first met with Pastor Brunson in a Turkish prison earlier this spring, he told me his greatest fear was that the American government would accept the indictment and forget about him. I told him we would never allow that to happen, and over the last several months, Americans from every corner of the country have prayed for his release, and leaders from both parties have worked together behind the scenes. Securing Pastor Brunson’s release was truly a bipartisan, all-hands-on-deck effort. I’m grateful for the efforts of President Trump, the State Department, and my colleagues in the Senate. We pursued a number of diplomatic and policy channels that kept the pressure on. The Turkish Government ultimately made the right decision, which will undoubtedly help improve U.S.-Turkey relations moving forward. While the outcome took longer than anyone would have liked, Pastor Brunson is finally coming back home as a free man.” Background On March 26, 2018 Senator Tillis traveled to Turkey to meet with Pastor Brunson at Buca Prison in Izmir, Turkey. On April 16th, Senator Tillis traveled back to Turkey to attend Pastor Brunson’s trial, where he faced up to 35 years in prison. Following the hearing, on April 20th, Senator Tillis led a bipartisan letter signed by 71 senators to President Erdogan calling for his release. In the letter to President Erdogan, the Senators noted that the indictment “is an absurd collection of anonymous accusations, flights of fantasy, and random character assassination…It is an insult not only to an unjustly imprisoned individual, but to the traditions of Turkish jurisprudence.” On April 26th, Senators Tillis, James Lankford (R-OK) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced a bill to prevent the transfer of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft to Turkey. The bill would also block Turkey’s role as a maintenance depot for the aircraft. Under the US-led, multinational Joint Strike Fighter program, Turkey was expected to purchase more than 100 aircraft. On May 24th, Senators Tillis and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) announced they had secured a provision, based in-part on the legislation introduced on April 26th, in the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. On July 19th, Senator Tillis and a bipartisan group of senators introduced a bill demanding Turkey end the unjust detention of U.S. citizens and rejecting international loans to Turkey until the harassment and detention of U.S. citizens comes to an end. On July 24th, Senator Tillis announced that the final FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) included a provision introduced by Senators Tillis and Shaheen that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress assessing the Government of Turkey’s participation in the F-35 program. The provision was a direct response to the Turkish government’s wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, and Turkey’s troubling intention to purchase the S-400 system from Russia. The provision explicitly states that Congress finds that the Turkish government is unlawfully and wrongfully detaining Andrew Brunson and Serkan Golge, and is denying them due process rights consistent with international norms. Congress overwhelmingly passed the legislation, which President Trump subsequently signed into law. On August 1st, the Trump Administration announced it was imposing financial sanctions on the Government of Turkey due to their detainment of Andrew Brunson. ###
10.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), James Lankford (R-OK), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) issued the following joint statement on Pastor Brunson’s release: “We are pleased that Pastor Andrew Brunson will finally be released from Turkish custody and will return to the United States as a free man. Pastor Brunson will be reunited with his loving family, whose relentless advocacy for his release helped inspire us and many others to the cause. The President, Vice President, State Department, and Congress have been truly committed to getting Pastor Brunson home. We encourage Turkish authorities to also release the others we have been advocating for who are wrongfully detained. In the end, the Government of Turkey did the right thing, a decision that will help strengthen the longstanding friendship between our two nations, as well as the NATO alliance.” ###
10.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), James Lankford (R-OK), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) issued the following joint statement on Pastor Brunson’s hearing date scheduled for tomorrow: “Pastor Andrew Brunson and his family have been through an incredibly trying ordeal for the last two years. Their faith and strength have been an example to us all. It is our greatest hope that the Pastor will finally be allowed to return home to his family in the United States after his hearing tomorrow. This significant step would not only allow the Brunson family to move forward with their lives, but it would help improve U.S.-Turkey relations for the long-term. Ultimately, the United States and Turkey are NATO Allies and have a number of mutual concerns regarding regional security and stability. It is time that we close this ugly chapter in our relations and move from discussing the release of innocent Americans and U.S. Embassy staff to working together as Allies on issues of mutual concern.” ###
10.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to speak on North Carolina native Andrew Brunson, who has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. Pastor Brunson has his next hearing scheduled for tomorrow. Click HERE to watch the floor speech. Tillis on Pastor Brunson:“I'm here to talk about a man named Pastor Brunson, a North Carolina native who has been imprisoned in Turkey since October 7, 2016. He's a Presbyterian minister that in 2016 under the emergency orders in Turkey, President Erdogan ended up ordering the arrest of many people, including Pastor Brunson. The two-year anniversary was last Sunday, and I called Pastor Brunson to speak with him to see how he and his wife Norine were doing. He told me he is still worried about the very real possibility that he could get convicted up to 35 years in prison.” Tillis on the hearing tomorrow:“Tomorrow is what many of us believe may be the last time that he's in a courtroom. I hope that President Erdogan and their judicial system find justice for Pastor Brunson, and what that justice looks like to me, regardless of whatever conclusion the Turkish courts draw -- innocence or guilt – is they simply complete the judicial process in Turkey and return Pastor Brunson and his wife back to the United States, specifically western North Carolina.” Tillis on support within Congress for his release:“After I visited Pastor Brunson in a Turkish prison about six months ago, I heard that he was concerned once the indictment was issued against him that the American people would read that indictment and just forget about him. It was important to me to go to Turkey, go to that Turkish prison just outside of Izmir, Turkey, look him eye to eye, and tell him I would not forget about him. Since that meeting and after that, we have had over 70 members of the U.S. Senate on both sides of the aisle sign on to a letter to send a very clear message to Pastor Brunson that we're not going to forget him, but also send a very clear message to Turkey that there will be consequences if we have a miscarriage of justice in this case.” Tillis on if Pastor Brunson remains imprisoned:“If his hearing is continued again, or he's found guilty and sentenced to 35 years in prison, I'll have to take a different action. It is an action very similar to what we took putting a provision in the National Defense Authorization really questioning our long-term relationship with Turkey in terms of sharing technology with the joint strike fighter. When we went through that process, we identified a number of other measures that I believe could get strong support in the House and Senate that would take our relationship with Turkey in the wrong direction. I want Turkey to be a strong NATO ally and trading partner, and I want the Turkish people to have a vibrant economy. I sincerely hope we don’t have to go down this path, and I hope Turkey’s leaders will do the right thing and let the Brunson’s come home.” ###
10.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr issued the following statement regarding North Carolinians who are applying for federal disaster assistance: “We’ve recently heard stories of North Carolinians who were denied federal assistance for losses associated with Hurricane Florence. Our offices are now requesting additional information from FEMA and local officials to get a better sense of specifics surrounding these reported cases. While not every North Carolinian who suffered property damage will be eligible for federal assistance, we want to make sure everyone who is eligible for assistance receives it. We encourage any North Carolinian having issues with their application for federal assistance to contact our offices by calling 704-509-9087 (Tillis) or 336-631-5125 (Burr).” Background:Residents from North Carolina who are initially denied disaster assistance can appeal the decision to FEMA. The offices of Senators Tillis and Burr have been assisting North Carolinians with the FEMA application process, and residents are encouraged to contact their offices if they have any questions or are not receiving timely or satisfactory responses. Senators Tillis and Burr led the North Carolina Congressional delegation’s successful efforts to secure a significant down payment for the state’s long-term recovery in legislation passed last week. Senators Tillis and Burr will continue to work with Congressional leaders to ensure North Carolina has the long-term resources necessary to rebuild from Hurricane Florence. ###
10.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, released the following statement: “We are closely following the concerning reports about the disappearance of journalist Jamal Khashoggi after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul one week ago today. Freedom of the press is a fundamental democratic value, and it sends a chilling message to journalists and those who support democracy around the world when voices of dissent are silenced. As co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, we urge Saudi authorities to immediately investigate and verify Jamal’s location.” ###
10.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement following the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be on the Supreme Court of the United States: “Judge Brett Kavanaugh is one of the most eminently qualified individuals to be nominated to serve on the Supreme Court in recent memory. He has spent the last decade serving on the U.S. Court of Appeals, earning a reputation for being a mainstream and fair-minded jurist with excellent judicial temperament. He will be an outstanding Supreme Court justice. “When the President nominated Judge Kavanaugh, I made a simple request to my Democratic colleagues to keep an open mind and treat him fairly during the confirmation process. Senate Democrats have failed to do so, opposing his confirmation within seconds of his nomination and then using the next several months to malign his character (including calling him and his supporters evil) and employ every tactic at their disposal to delay his confirmation. “For Democrats, this was never about being fair, conducting proper vetting, or taking their advise and consent duties seriously; it was all about denying a Supreme Court seat to Judge Kavanaugh or any other qualified individual who would have been nominated by the President in order to fire up their base on the eve of an election. That couldn’t have been made more evident after they received Dr. Ford’s letter, took no action for nearly two months, and then shamefully violated her request for privacy by strategically leaking her letter to the media at the 11th hour when it was most politically advantageous for them. “Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee responded by treating all credible allegations seriously, conducting an extensive, evidence-based investigation that included public hearings, statements from named witnesses, transcribed interviews from those willing to provide them, and evidence both sides submitted to assist senators in reaching a conclusion. Finally, the committee requested that the FBI conduct its seventh background investigation on Judge Kavanaugh. “This thorough FBI background investigation did not find any contemporaneous information that corroborated the very serious allegations made against Judge Kavanaugh dating back to his years as a high school and college student. Due process and fairness depend on evidence, and after considering everything, including the FBI report, the hearings, and all the facts available, I maintained my support for Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation.” ###
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on future Supreme Court confirmations: “Roles will be eventually reversed when a Democratic president nominates a Supreme Court justice. For the good of the nation, Republicans must resist the urge to reciprocate the politics of personal destruction when that time comes. The toxic search and destroy tactics employed by Senate Democrats during the Kavanaugh confirmation have debased the integrity of the Supreme Court, disgraced our political discourse, and upended innocent lives. It revealed the dark and disturbing depths one side is willing to go to win at all costs, regardless of the collateral damage – including lasting harm to our nation, our institutions, and our citizens. If Republicans ever decide to emulate the Democrats’ search and destroy playbook, they can count me out. Doing so would stoop Congress to a level we should never see again. America needs and deserves better.” ###
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement following the confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be on the Supreme Court of the United States: “Judge Brett Kavanaugh is one of the most eminently qualified individuals to be nominated to serve on the Supreme Court in recent memory. He has spent the last decade serving on the U.S. Court of Appeals, earning a reputation for being a mainstream and fair-minded jurist with excellent judicial temperament. He will be an outstanding Supreme Court justice. “When the President nominated Judge Kavanaugh, I made a simple request to my Democratic colleagues to keep an open mind and treat him fairly during the confirmation process. Senate Democrats have failed to do so, opposing his confirmation within seconds of his nomination and then using the next several months to malign his character (including calling him and his supporters evil) and employ every tactic at their disposal to delay his confirmation. “For Democrats, this was never about being fair, conducting proper vetting, or taking their advise and consent duties seriously; it was all about denying a Supreme Court seat to Judge Kavanaugh or any other qualified individual who would have been nominated by the President in order to fire up their base on the eve of an election. That couldn’t have been made more evident after they received Dr. Ford’s letter, took no action for nearly two months, and then shamefully violated her request for privacy by strategically leaking her letter to the media at the 11th hour when it was most politically advantageous for them. “Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee responded by treating all credible allegations seriously, conducting an extensive, evidence-based investigation that included public hearings, statements from named witnesses, transcribed interviews from those willing to provide them, and evidence both sides submitted to assist senators in reaching a conclusion. Finally, the committee requested that the FBI conduct its seventh background investigation on Judge Kavanaugh. “This thorough FBI background investigation did not find any contemporaneous information that corroborated the very serious allegations made against Judge Kavanaugh dating back to his years as a high school and college student. Due process and fairness depend on evidence, and after considering everything, including the FBI report, the hearings, and all the facts available, I maintained my support for Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation.” ###
10.03.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis of North Carolina released the following statements regarding the passage of the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill, which includes $1.68 billion in disaster relief funding for North and South Carolina following Hurricane Florence: “This funding is an important step on the long road to recovery for the thousands of North Carolinians affected by Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Burr. “With $1.14 billion allocated for North Carolina, and another $540 million for South Carolina, our constituents can start to rebuild their homes, businesses and livelihoods. I look forward to working with Governor Cooper and state and local officials to ensure this money is distributed quickly and efficiently to get North Carolina back on solid ground as soon as possible. This bill also includes a version of legislation I introduced that would require the Secretary of Transportation to develop minimum standards for service and emotional support animals for air travel. I look forward to working with the Transportation Department in order to successfully implement these needed reforms.” “The inclusion of $1.68 billion in disaster relief funding, including our $1.14 billion request for North Carolina, is an important down payment to begin recovering from the devastation left behind from Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Tillis. “Federal assistance will be the key to North Carolina’s recovery over the coming months and years, and I will continue to work with the entire North Carolina Congressional delegation to ensure families have the resources needed to rebuild their homes and businesses and our great state can rebuild our infrastructure. I am also glad this legislation includes reforms to FEMA programs to expedite assistance for recipients of FEMA aid and simplify federal requirements for individuals and state, local, and Indian tribal governments. We must ensure North Carolinians receive assistance as soon as possible, and this legislation is a positive first step in a long road ahead.” Background Information Senators Burr and Tillis, along with the rest of the North Carolina Congressional Delegation, wrote to the president to request an expedited major disaster declaration as Hurricane Florence made landfall near Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina on September 14, 2018. The following week, North and South Carolina’s Senators joined together to write to appropriators to include the necessary funding to begin recovery efforts as soon as possible. North Carolina’s Congressional Delegation letter to President Trump can be found here, and Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Tim Scott’s (R-SC) letter to Senate Appropriations Committee leaders can be found here. ###
10.03.2018	Landmark Legislation Heads to President’s Desk WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in favor of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, bipartisan legislation to combat the national opioid crisis. The sweeping legislation is the result of bipartisan work by five committees in the Senate and eight committees in the House of Representatives. “The opioid epidemic has reached every corner of America and devastated communities for too long. It is heartbreaking that more North Carolinians die every day to overdose than car crashes, and it is a trend that must be reversed,” said Senator Tillis. “This consensus legislation will help our communities fight back through education, prevention, and treatment, and I am proud Congress came together once again to combat this devastating crisis.” In 2016, Tillis co-sponsored the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), a sweeping addiction recovery bill aimed at addressing the nation’s growing heroin and opioid addiction epidemic. Separately, Congress has appropriated $8.5 billion this year towards fighting the opioid crisis, after the FY2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill Congress passed in March included $4.7 billion to fight the opioid crisis and the FY2019 Health and Human Services Appropriations bill Congress passed in September included $3.8 billion to fight the crisis. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act will help states and communities use these funds to better address the opioid crisis. Below are 10 key provisions of the legislation: 1. STOP Act—to stop illegal drugs, including fentanyl, at the border 2. New non-addictive painkillers, research and fast-track 3. Blister packs for opioids, such as a 3 or 7 day supply 4. Extends support for Medicaid patients seeking treatment from 15 to 30 days, covering all substance use disorders 5. TREAT Act—permanently allows more medical professionals to treat people in recovery to prevent relapse and overdoses 6. Prevent “doctor-shopping” by improving state prescription drug monitoring programs 7. More behavioral and mental health providers 8. Support for comprehensive opioid recovery centers 9. Help for babies born in opioid withdrawal and for mothers with opioid use disorders 10. More early intervention with vulnerable children who have experienced trauma Full legislative text is available here. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the trilateral trade agreement between the United States, Mexico, and Canada: “I applaud the Trump Administration on reaching an agreement with Mexico and Canada to replace the outdated NAFTA and ensure our alliances with our neighbors remain strong. Agriculture is the number one industry in North Carolina, and it is vital we provide certainty to the industry and the millions of jobs the U.S. agricultural industry it supports. This agreement is a step in the right direction for North Carolina’s farmers, businesses, workers, and consumers, and I look forward to reviewing the details in the coming weeks.” ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), co-chairs of the NATO Observer Group, issued the following statement ahead of Sunday’s referendum where the Macedonian people will vote on a change to their constitution that will clear a path toward NATO accession. The Senators’ remarks echo statements made by Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Secretary General of NATO Jens Stoltenberg and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany: “As the Macedonian people prepare to vote in this weekend’s referendum, we wish to send them a message that the U.S. Senate NATO Observer Group stands ready to welcome you should you choose to join the most successful military alliance in history,” said the Senators. “The NATO Observer Group will work closely with our government and the government of the future Republic of Macedonia to expeditiously shepherd the country’s accession protocols through the Senate process. The Macedonian people have long been on a path toward prosperity and security and have faced many hurdles along the way. On Sunday, however, it will be their choice and their choice alone to decide how to proceed. We hope that every voice will be heard—free from outside pressure or foreign influence—on this incredibly important vote.” Senators Tillis and Shaheen re-established the Senate NATO Observer Group earlier this year with an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. Senators Tillis and Shaheen are both members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. ###
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on today’s hearing: “Allegations of sexual misconduct must be taken seriously, which means both parties must be heard and receive due process, regardless of whether the allegation is made in the context of a criminal complaint or a Senate confirmation. I went in today’s hearing with an open mind – without prejudging either side – and listened to both Dr. Ford and Judge Kavanaugh testify under oath. “I found Judge Kavanaugh’s testimony and denial of all allegations against him to be emphatic and unequivocal. As a federal judge, he is well aware he made every statement under threat of criminal penalty. “Likewise, I found Dr. Ford’s testimony to be sincere. Some have suggested that Dr. Ford is flat-out lying about being sexually assaulted. I completely reject this notion and strongly condemn the malicious and violent threats that have been made against Dr. Ford and her family. “In addition to the hearing today, the Senate Judiciary Committee conducted its own exhaustive investigation, which included statements from named witnesses, transcribed interviews from those willing to provide them, and evidence both sides submitted to assist Judiciary members with their advise and consent duties. “I believe Dr. Ford’s claim that she was sexually assaulted by someone, and it is the Senate’s responsibility to look at any evidence available in relation to the nominee. That includes considering the statements of the four witnesses she says were present, who have all denied or disputed Kavanaugh’s presence at the event in question, statements that were provided to the committee under the threat of felony. After listening to today’s testimony, and reviewing all the facts and evidence, I maintain my support for his confirmation. “For Democrats, this was never about supporting a fair process for Dr. Ford or Judge Kavanaugh; it was all about denying him a seat at the Supreme Court in order to fire up their base on the eve of an election. After taking no action for nearly two months, Democrats shamefully violated Dr. Ford’s request for privacy by leaking her letter to the media at the 11th hour and maligned Judge Kavanaugh’s character, proving they could care less about the collateral damage they created in their quest for campaign cash and votes. “The disgraceful behavior of Senate Democrats will be felt long after the current confirmation process. Democrats have outrageously made the claim that there is no longer a presumption of innocence in America. Every Democratic member of the committee called on Kavanaugh’s nomination to be withdrawn before he even had an opportunity to deny the accusations under oath before the American people. This is a chilling manifestation of partisanship erasing basic expectations of fairness and due process that have been cornerstones of our nation since its founding. This is an embarrassment and we must do better in the future. This cannot become the new normal.” Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ comments at the hearing. ###
09.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Richard Burr (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Tim Scott (R-SC) applauded the House for granting their request for a $1.68 billion down payment for Hurricane Florence disaster relief in the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill. The relief includes $1.14 billion for North Carolina and $540 million for South Carolina. The senators made the formal request for a $1.68 billion down payment in Community Development Block Grant - Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Program funding in a letter to appropriators earlier this week. The CDBG-DR grants would support a variety of disaster recovery activities in North Carolina and South Carolina, including housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, and infrastructure repair. View the senators’ letter to appropriators here. “This has been a truly Team Carolina effort, beginning before Florence even made landfall. We have had productive meetings and conversations with Congressional leaders to secure disaster relief and an initial down payment,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I’m pleased our $1.68 billion request, including $1.14 billion of relief for North Carolina, was included in the House bill, and we’ll continue to work together with Senate leadership to see through that a major down payment is included in the final legislation. This is only the beginning of our efforts to ensure North and South Carolina have federal resources to recover from the devastation caused by Florence and that hardworking families, small businesses, and farmers have the assistance they need to rebuild and get back on their feet.” “The $1.68 billion in disaster relief we’ve secured will allow tens of thousands of North Carolinians who lost their homes and businesses to begin rebuilding their lives,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Because the funding comes through Community Development Block Grants, we will be able to better transition from an emergency response to long-term recovery efforts, knowing the path ahead of us is long and arduous. Throughout this process, I’ve been impressed by the coordination and rapid response from Local, State and Federal officials. I am grateful we’ve secured funding to continue this vital work.” “As South Carolina and North Carolina continue to deal with the aftermath of this historic hurricane, we understand that it will take a team effort to rebuild,” said Senator Lindsey Graham. “We face a long, tough road ahead. Those efforts have already begun and we are committed to ensuring our states have the tools they need to recover from this terrible storm. I want to thank my colleagues from the Carolina’s and look forward to our continued partnership.” “As rivers are still rising in South Carolina, I want to thank Team Carolina for coming together and working to ensure our states receive the resources they need from the federal level,” said Senator Tim Scott. “Disaster recovery is truly a team effort, and I know we will keep working to aid our families, farmers, small businesses and all those affected by Hurricane Florence.” ###
09.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr provided an update on North Carolina’s ongoing recovery from Hurricane Florence: “North Carolina is reeling from the destruction caused by Florence, and many of our communities are under the threat of more historic flooding as rivers crest. Federal assistance will be the key to North Carolina’s recovery over the coming months and years. Based on initial forecasts, we began engaging with Senate appropriators before Florence even made landfall, and over the last week we’ve had productive and encouraging conversations with President Trump, Leader McConnell, administration officials, Congressional appropriators and our House colleagues. We will continue to work diligently behind the scenes to ensure federal dollars flow to North Carolina as soon as possible to assist with the long-term efforts to rebuild homes, infrastructure, farms, roads and highways that were damaged or destroyed. The recovery process will be long and tough, but we are committed to providing North Carolina with all the federal support it needs.” ###
09.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr joined President Trump during his visit to North Carolina to assess the damage caused by Hurricane Florence. “We are now moving towards the next step, which is getting the initial funding for recovery. We’ve made a request, and we’ll be moving forward and working with Governor Cooper with trying to get the money in place for some of the initial recovery,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank all the volunteers as well who have come together, this is when North Carolina and America is at its best.” “I’ve been doing disasters in North Carolina as an elected representative for now 25 years, and I’ve never seen the preparation, the coordination, the collaboration between the federal, state, and local government like I’ve seen prior to this event,” said Senator Burr. “I am grateful for the federal component as well as the state emergency management folks and first responders, their collaboration is what is so great about this state.” Click HERE to watch their remarks. ###
09.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “Senate Judiciary Democrats deserve the criticism they are receiving from across the political spectrum for making a conscious decision to sit on this serious allegation for nearly two months without taking action. They have badly mishandled this and have done a disservice to the accuser, Judge Kavanaugh, and the American people. “Allegations of misconduct must be taken seriously. That requires a fact-based process that is fair and respectful to both the accuser and the accused. “The Senate Judiciary Committee is beginning an investigation and is inviting both individuals to appear before the committee next week to ensure the allegation is thoroughly vetted and both individuals have a chance to speak. I support this decision.” ###
09.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) appeared on CBS’ Face the Nation and Fox News Sunday to discuss Hurricane Florence response and recovery efforts.Click HERE to watch the CBS Face the Nation Interview. Click HERE to watch the Fox News Sunday Interview. Tillis on the current status in North Carolina: “North Carolina is doing as well as we can. Rivers are going to continue to overflow their banks over the next few days and I believe that could cause some of the worst parts of the storm to still occur. The rainfall and water levels for the some of the main rivers in North Carolina are at dangerously high levels, and we are already seeing a number of main roads closed down which presents a number of challenges for local communities and disaster relief.” Tillis on the government response to Hurricane Florence:“We are getting the resources we need. I think the FEMA assets were positioned as well as they could be to respond to the storm and the Red Cross has done an extraordinary job providing shelter to those in need. There are areas in Eastern North Carolina where flooding, downed power lines and downed trees are creating challenges for emergency response teams, but every report we are getting is we are working through them to restore power as quickly as possible and but it will likely be weeks before it is fully restored.” Tillis on the threat of floods this week:“It is difficult to understand what is ahead, but if Hurricane Matthew is any indication we will see parts of North Carolina be threatened later this week that may not be threatened right now. North Carolinians need to continue to take this seriously and listen to local authorities. Sadly we have experience with this with Hurricane Matthew, so federal, state, and local officials will continue to come together and I think North Carolina is as prepared to deal with this as any state in the country.” Tillis on the damage to North Carolina:“To give a comparison, Hurricane Matthew hit almost two years ago and we are still recovering. Hurricane Florence will likely produce impacts greater than Hurricane Matthew, particularly on industries like agriculture, the largest industry in North Carolina. The floods that will occur over the next few days may be even more damaging the initial impact of the storm, and the economic impact and cost to rebuild North Carolina will likely be in the billions of dollars.” ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s entire Congressional delegation, led by Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, sent a letter to President Trump requesting that the administration swiftly approve Governor Cooper’s request for an expedited Major Disaster Declaration as Hurricane Florence brings historic flooding and destruction to counties across North Carolina. “The severity of damage and number of areas impacted is rapidly increasing and is forecast to worsen drastically in the coming days,” the members wrote. “Accordingly, we sincerely appreciate your timely consideration of this expedited Major Disaster Declaration request.” “Although the totality of devastation will continue to unfold, it is imperative that North Carolina has the resources now to begin the recovery process,” the members continued. “We again respectfully request you approve this Major Disaster Declaration consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act to allow our local and state officials, in coordination with federal partners, to begin rebuilding our great state.” Full text of the letter to the President is below. September 14, 2018 Dear Mr. President, As Members of Congress representing the people of North Carolina, we write in support of Governor Cooper's request for an expedited Major Disaster Declaration for the State of North Carolina under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act for events occurring since September 14, 2018, and which are still occurring. The expedited Major Disaster Declaration is for both individual assistance and public assistance, including direct federal assistance for counties across North Carolina. Hurricane Florence has only begun to make landfall and has already inflicted tremendous damage across North Carolina’s coastal counties. The severity of damage and number of areas impacted is rapidly increasing and is forecast to worsen drastically in the coming days. Accordingly, we sincerely appreciate your timely consideration of this expedited Major Disaster Declaration request. Currently 76 counties have declared local states of emergency, 22 counties are under a hurricane warning with an additional 23 counties under tropical storm warnings. Due to evacuations, the state has already opened 131 shelters, housing over 6,900 residents. Additionally, 2,800 National Guardsmen have been activated and numerous search/rescue and high water rescue teams have been deployed. Although the totality of devastation will continue to unfold, it is imperative that North Carolina has the resources now to begin the recovery process. We thank you for granting our advanced emergency declaration request on September 10, 2018, and we commend your administration for its diligence and assistance thus far. We again respectfully request you approve this Major Disaster Declaration consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act to allow our local and state officials, in coordination with federal partners, to begin rebuilding our great state. Sincerely, Richard BurrThom TillisGeorge HoldingRichard HudsonWalter B. JonesDavid RouzerVirginia FoxxDavid E. PriceMark WalkerAlma AdamsG.K. ButterfieldTed BuddMark MeadowsPatrick McHenryRobert Pittenger ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke to Fox News about North Carolina’s preparation and planned response to Hurricane Florence. Click HERE to watch the full video. 00:43 - Tillis on preparations for Hurricane Florence:“We already had FEMA in place still recovering from Hurricane Matthew and we have had briefings from our emergency management experts. I think we are as prepared as we can be, but what can help be more prepared is to have any citizen who has been asked to evacuate to do so, for their own safety as well as the safety of our first-responders.” 1:13 – Tillis on the potential impact of Hurricane Florence:“I’m proud of the local elected officials that have taken the necessary steps to protect North Carolinians, including the Governor for issuing mandatory evacuations. Again, Hurricane Matthew was a category 1 storm when it made landfall and it caused hundreds of millions of dollars in damage, including loss of life. Hurricane Floyd was very similar as a category 2 storm. This is a very dangerous storm, the surge and rainfall estimates have not changed, and it is going to hit almost all of North Carolina. Everybody in the state needs to pay attention, seek cover, stay away from floods, and listen to your local law enforcement.” ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Executive Order signed by President Trump to impose sanctions against foreign individuals, entities, or governments that meddle in future U.S. elections: “I applaud the Trump Administration for taking a strong stand against election interference and sending a direct warning to foreign adversaries that are planning on interfering in the upcoming mid-terms. The Russian government’s interference in the 2016 election were hostile acts against America’s democratic system that were designed to cause division and discord within our nation, and we cannot allow such hostile acts to occur again. It is imperative that America remains united in punishing potential election meddlers and bad actors and that Republicans and Democrats work together to protect the integrity of our elections.” ###
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on Hurricane Florence, which is expected to impact North Carolina later this week: “Hurricane Florence is expected to be unlike any storm we have seen in recent times, bringing historic flooding and destruction to communities across our state. Our first responders, as well as local, state, and federal officials are already hard at work and preparing for the worst in order to mitigate losses. I urge all North Carolinians to comply with evacuation orders and make sure they and their families have an emergency plan in place and ready to be executed. While homes and material possessions can be repaired or replaced, human lives cannot. For the many North Carolinians whose homes are in the path of Florence’s destruction, please know that my office will be here for you every step of the way if or when you need to apply for federal disaster assistance. In the meantime, the safety of all North Carolinians must come first.” Important Post-Storm Information: Duke Energy announced today that one to three million North Carolinians could lose power due to Hurricane Florence. Below is information to report outages: Once the storm passes, Senator Tillis will begin working with federal officials to assess the damage. Those affected by the storm can apply for disaster assistance using the information below. ###
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s entire Congressional delegation, led by Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, sent a letter to President Trump requesting that the administration approve Governor Roy Cooper’s Emergency Declaration in advance of Hurricane Florence’s landfall. “Hurricane Florence poses an imminent and dangerous threat to North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state to once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources,” the members wrote. “An Emergency Declaration will provide the needed assistance to the state and local communities to allow them to properly prepare for the effects of Hurricane Florence. We respectfully request you approve this declaration and enable North Carolina to prepare for the potential disaster, consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act.” Full text of the letter to the President is below. September 10, 2018 Dear President Trump, As Members of Congress representing the people of North Carolina, we write in support of Governor Cooper's request for an Emergency Declaration under Section 501(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act. We respectfully request your immediate consideration and approval of this Emergency Declaration as the state prepares for Hurricane Florence. Since April 2018, North Carolina state and local emergency management agencies have responded to tornado damage in Guilford and Rockingham Counties and major flooding and mudslides in 34 of our western counties. Hurricane Florence poses an imminent and dangerous threat to North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state to once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources. An Emergency Declaration will provide the needed assistance to the state and local communities to allow them to properly prepare for the effects of Hurricane Florence. We respectfully request you approve this declaration and enable North Carolina to prepare for the potential disaster, consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act. Richard BurrThom TillisAlma AdamsMark MeadowsDavid E. PriceRichard HudsonWalter B. JonesDavid RouzerRobert PittengerGeorge HoldingTed BuddG. K. ButterfieldVirginia FoxxPatrick McHenryMark Walker ###
09.07.2018	S. 3388 –The Ensuring Coverage for Patients with Pre-Existing Conditions Act Claim: This bill would take away protections for patients with pre-existing conditions. The Facts: This bill does not take away patient protections. It ensures that patients have access to health care coverage regardless of their health status or preexisting conditions. This bill simply takes the Affordable Care Act language on protections for patients with preexisting conditions and inserts it into a different area of federal law; it does not strike down, weaken, or change a single provision from the Affordable Care Act. Claim: While this bill does prohibit insurers from denying coverage or charging patients with preexisting conditions a higher premium, it would still allow insurers to exclude pre-existing conditions from coverage. The Facts: This bill is an important starting point to make clear where Congress stands on protecting Americans with pre-existing conditions, and makes no changes to provisions in the Affordable Care Act. While there is no way to predict how the courts will rule on specific provisions of the ACA, the bill’s authors have stressed they are willing to modify their bill and reach across the aisle depending on the scope of the court’s ruling. Claim: This bill does not include (fill in the blank). The Facts: There are many Title I protections that were included in the Affordable Care Act that are not included in the Ensuring Coverage for Patients with Pre-Existing Conditions Act. The intent of this bill is not to recreate the Affordable Care Act elsewhere in the U.S. Code or serve as an alternative. The goal is to signal Congress’ commitment to protecting adequate and affordable coverage for Americans with preexisting conditions, and to serve as a framework for Congress to build upon should certain provisions of the ACA fall in Texas v US. It is impossible to predict what the outcome will be, and the bill’s sponsors remain committed to tweaking and/or expanding the bill text if the court’s ruling goes beyond the scope of the bill as introduced. Claim: This bill props up Obamacare The Facts: This bill does not prop up or protect the Affordable Care Act, nor does it represent a comprehensive replacement for the ACA, should a court find the ACA to be unconstitutional. This bill does not add to, remove, or amend a single provision of the ACA. This bill does highlight an area of agreement among many Senators, demonstrating a commitment to preserving protections for patients with preexisting conditions, in a way that could stand on its own regardless of the standing of the Affordable Care Act more broadly.
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) participated in the second round of questioning by Senate Judiciary Committee members during hearings on Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. Click HERE to watch the full video. 02:46 – “I would like to thank the Capitol Police officers who are working mandatory 16-hour shifts during these hearings. It is difficult for people in the room to see the work that they are doing, but the complex operation they are undertaking to keep us, as well as those exercising their First Amendment rights, safe is extraordinary.” 04:06 – “It is obvious Republicans and Democrats on the Judiciary Committee are at an impasse over your nomination, but it did not start this week during the hearings. It started before you were even nominated, because there are people on the other side of the aisle, including in this committee, who opposed your nomination on a fill-in-the-blank basis. They already made their decision before they saw the first document and they weren’t going to change their mind.” 06:36 – “Last night, a request was made by a member of this committee to release files that were deemed confidential by the committee. Our staff stayed up all night complying with the request, and this morning every member of this committee received notification that these files were cleared for public viewing. Every member of this committee had sufficient time to find out these files were released without the theatrics that happened in this chamber today. People didn’t need to be Spartacus, they didn’t have to invoke civil disobedience, because they got what they wanted. What happened today reminds me of something I am more likely to see at the Kennedy Center, but not really appropriate for what we are doing here.” 11:19 – “I don’t understand how someone with your track record can be viewed in such a divisive way. I don’t see how someone who has clearly judged on both sides of the issues, sometimes making Republicans mad and sometimes making Democrats mad, can be treated the way you have been treated. I think if we go back and examine it, this has been a political exercise more than anything else, and I think you should be very proud of your record as a judge.” ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) introduced the Health Care Staffing Improvement Act, bipartisan legislation to make common-sense changes in staffing policies at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and improve veterans’ care at VA health care facilities. Joining Senators Tillis and Merkley as original co-sponsors are Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR), Mark Warner (D-VA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH). At many VA health centers around the country, veterans face wait times of weeks or even months for an appointment. These severe roadblocks to providing timely and quality health care to veterans stem in part from policies that make the recruitment and retention of medical staff extremely difficult. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would reduce bureaucratic obstacles to make it easier for the VA to boost staffing at VA health centers and reduce wait times. The legislation would also make it easier for servicemembers who have served in medical roles to transfer directly into the VA system and make it easier to transfer or share medical staff and services across VA facilities. “For too long, the VA has struggled to recruit and retain frontline health care providers, further exacerbating the issues already plaguing the VA system,” said Tillis. “The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act directly addresses this problem by reducing bureaucratic barriers and by creating a streamlined process for transitioning servicemembers to bring their invaluable training and experience to the VA, which will make it easier for VA facilities across the nation to provide our veterans with the high quality care they need and deserve.” “Our veterans have stood up for us, and we must stand up for them,” said Merkley. “Long wait times put our veterans’ health in jeopardy and are simply unacceptable. It’s common sense to eliminate unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles, and to create a ‘docs-to-doctors’ pipeline so that servicemembers who have served in health care roles in the military can easily transition their service into the VA system.” The Health Care Staffing Improvement Act has also been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR). “Docs-to-Doctors” Program to Help Servicemembers Leaving the Military Transition to the VA To provide VA with a large pool of trained medical staff who are already serving their country, this program improves the ability of the VA to recruit veterans who served as health care providers while in the military by: Requiring that VA receive a list of servicemembers who served in a health care capacity while in the military or as part of the Coast Guard and have filed for separation in the previous 12 months; and Treating these veterans as applicants from within the VA to allow for a more expeditious hiring process. Uniform Credentialing Standards Currently, certain VA medical professionals have to “recredential” every time they change hospitals or provide services at a hospital outside of their VA regional healthcare system. VA health care providers report that this can take from six weeks to three months, or even longer. In a unified health care system like the VA, it needlessly limits the VA’s flexibility to have medical professionals provide services where they are most needed. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would require the VA Secretary to create uniform credentialing rules for medical professionals across the Veterans Health Administration. It is supported by the Disabled American Veterans (DAV), American Legion, and the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA). “DAV has long advocated for Congress and federal departments to work with state and local governments, employers, trade unions, and licensure and credentialing entities, to establish a clear process so that military training meets civilian certification and licensure requirements and allows veterans to take their vocational certifications and training directly into the civilian sector once they leave military service,” said Garry J. Augustine, DAV Washington Headquarters Executive Director. “If passed and signed into law, the Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act will eliminate employment barriers for military healthcare workers, allowing them to continue serving their fellow citizens by utilizing their top-notch vocational training without delay. We applaud Sen. Merkley for reintroducing this important legislation.” “Veterans from medical occupational fields should be able to count their military service and experience when transitioning to the civilian health care workforce,” said Brett Reistad, National Commander, The American Legion. “The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would streamline the process for separating veterans and help address the staffing shortage at VA medical facilities across the country. This bill, as currently written, is good for our veterans and good for America.” ###
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered his opening remarks during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court.Click HERE to watch the video. Tillis on Senate Democrats’ stall tactics:“We have had nearly every member in the minority on this committee either publicly state or participate in a press conference that they were going to vote against Judge Kavanaugh, with most of them announcing it within the first 24 hours. Now, they are asking for thousands of pages of documents, and they have been graciously provided those by Chairman Grassley. These members have had plenty of time to get through the documents, they are just trying to find stall tactics because they already know they are going to vote against him.” Tillis on Judge Kavanaugh’s Qualifications:“I think we have before us an eminently qualified judge, and I am personally insulted when members on the other side of the aisle suggest I am complicit in evil if I support the nominee. I am glad Judge Kavanaugh is before us, he has more than 300 opinions the members can review to ask about his legal knowledge and constitutional understanding. These opinions are the single most important factor on his resume, and I hope my colleagues have taken the time to review these cases.” Tillis on Judge Kavanaugh’s Record:“Moving forward, I hope we stop the theater and talk about what is really meaningful here. I believe Judge Kavanaugh is going to be confirmed to the Supreme Court, and I have no doubt on the court he will write opinions that I don’t agree with because Congress failed to find a law-abiding solution. I think if people objectively look at his record, they are going to be hard-pressed to find that he doesn’t have the experience needed to be a justice on the Supreme Court.” ###
08.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Allison Rushing, a native of North Carolina, to serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. “North Carolina native Allison Rushing has an incredible wealth of judicial experience and is regarded as one of the best legal minds in the country,” said Senator Tillis. “She will be an outstanding addition to the Fourth Circuit, and I look forward to advancing her nomination through the Senate Judiciary Committee.” “I’m pleased to see a respected and qualified North Carolinian, Allison Rushing, nominated to serve on the U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals,” said Senator Burr. ”A fellow Wake Forest Demon Deacon and Duke Law School graduate, Ms. Rushing is one of the most prominent appellate lawyers in the nation. She has clerked for then-Tenth Circuit Court Judge Neil Gorsuch, then-D.C. Circuit Court Chief Judge David Sentelle, and Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. Ms. Rushing brings the right experience and skill to the Fourth Circuit, and I look forward to supporting her nomination.” Allison Rushing is a partner with Williams and Connolly LLP. There, her practice focuses on appellate matters, constitutional issues, and regulatory challenges. Ms. Rushing is widely viewed as one of the best young appellate lawyers in the country: Legal 500 has praised Ms. Rushing for her “excellent writing advocacy skills,” The National Law Journal has recognized her stellar oral advocacy in the Federal courts of appeals, and Super Lawyers has recognized her as one of its “Rising Stars.” Ms. Rushing has argued before Federal courts of appeals and state appellate courts, in addition to briefing cases before the U.S. Supreme Court. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Rushing clerked for then-Judge Neil Gorsuch on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, then-Chief Judge David Sentelle on the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, and Justice Clarence Thomas on the Supreme Court of the United States. Ms. Rushing earned her B.A., summa cum laude, from Wake Forest University, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Duke University School of Law, where she served as executive editor of the Duke Law Journal. ###
08.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis issued the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: “America has lost John McCain – a true titan of the Senate who was one of our nation’s greatest war heroes and public servants. He will be long remembered for his principled leadership, courage, grit, and always putting country first. “It was an honor to call John McCain a friend and serve alongside him in the Senate, especially on the Armed Services Committee where he acted as a mentor to myself and the other members. “Susan and I are deeply saddened by John’s passing, and we send our condolences to Cindy and the McCain family, who have demonstrated incredible grace and strength during this difficult time.” ###
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Dean Heller (R-NV), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John Barrasso (R-WY), and Roger Wicker (R-MS) introduced the Ensuring Coverage for Patients with Pre-Existing Conditions Act, legislation that would guarantee Americans have equal health care coverage, regardless of their health status or pre-existing conditions. Oral arguments in Texas v. United States will begin on September 5th, and if the judge rules in favor of the plaintiffs, protections for patients with pre-existing conditions could be eliminated. This legislation amends the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) to guarantees the availability of coverage in the individual or group market, for all Americans, including those with pre-existing conditions, regardless of the outcome in Texas v. United States. The legislation prohibits discrimination against beneficiaries based on health status, including the prohibition against increased premiums for beneficiaries due to pre-existing conditions. Click HERE to read the legislation. “There are strong opinions on both sides when it comes to how we should overhaul our nation’s broken health care system, but the one thing we can all agree on is that we should protect health care for Americans with pre-existing conditions and ensure they have access to good coverage,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation is a common-sense solution that guarantees Americans with preexisting conditions will have health care coverage, regardless of how our judicial system rules on the future of Obamacare.” “Don’t let there be any confusion about it—Americans with pre-existing conditions are going to have protections against being denied coverage or charged more for their condition,” said Senator Alexander. “I’m glad to join my Republican colleagues to ensure these protections continue, and I look forward to finding more ways to expand insurance options for Americans with pre-existing conditions, such as through the new Department of Labor rule that will make lower cost employer insurance with patient protections available to the self-employed and more employees of small businesses.” “For decades, there’s been tremendous support at the grassroots of Iowa and nationwide to protect people with pre-existing conditions from losing their health insurance,” said Senator Grassley. “Experts say that as much as half of the population under age 65 has some type of pre-existing health condition. This legislation will give certainty that broadly supported protections for pre-existing conditions are here to stay no matter what. Support for the legislation will separate those who really want to protect people with pre-existing conditions and those who would rather have a political talking point to scare Americans who are already worried enough. I hope the former is more important.” “Nevadans and Americans throughout the country with pre-existing conditions should be protected – period,” said Senator Heller. “This legislation will make sure that Nevada’s most vulnerable have access to coverage, and I’m proud to join my colleagues to introduce it.” “I'm a doctor who took care of patients in Louisiana’s charity hospital system for over 25 years, many of them directly affected by this issue,” said Dr. Cassidy. “That's why I'm so committed to protecting people with pre-existing conditions, and this bill keeps that promise." “No matter where I go, or who I talk to, healthcare remains a huge concern for Alaskans. And one of the key pieces to care is ensuring that people with pre-existing conditions can purchase insurance,” said Senator Murkowski. “With the uncertainty of the outcome in the upcoming Texas v. United States case, this legislation is needed now more than ever to give Alaskans, and all Americans, the certainty they need that protections for those with pre-existing conditions will remain intact. I’m proud to support a bill that will make sure no one loses coverage.” ###
08.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to speak on North Carolina native Andrew Brunson, who has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. Click HERE to watch the floor speech.Tillis on Turkey’s sincerity on releasing Pastor Brunson:“When I talk to Turkish officials, they say, ‘you've got to respect our justice system, this just has to play out.’ But I really wonder if they're sincere, because several months ago President Erdogan, the President of Turkey, made a public statement saying, ‘how about this -- we'll give you your pastor if you give us our pastor.’…But let me tell you what's interesting about making that offer in the context of the other elected officials, including President Erdogan, saying we just have to let our legal process play out. How can you say your hands are tied but on the other hand make a hostage swap request or what they would request to be a hostage swap request?” Tillis on Turkey’s recent offer:“A week ago…there is a new exchange on the table. If we drop a case against the Turkish bank, which has risen to our level of jurisprudence so they're going to have to go through our legal process, they said, ‘if you drop that case in the U.S. judicial system -- then we'll release Pastor Brunson.’ Clearly, Turkey has the authority to release Pastor Brunson. Turkey has the authority to release a NASA scientist who happened to be visiting his family who's been in prison for almost three years now and has a seven-year sentence or another four and a half years ahead of him. They have the authority to release them.”Tillis on NATO allies:“Turkey is a NATO ally. No NATO ally in the history of the alliance has ever illegally detained a citizen from one of their partner countries, but that's exactly what's happened here since October of 2016. I hope that this is the last time that I have to come to this floor to talk about releasing Pastor Brunson. I hope next week, I'm coming to the floor thanking the Turkish leadership for doing the right thing, thanking them for letting Pastor Brunson and his wife Norine to come back to the United States and advocating with Turkey as a partner that's very important, but none of that can happen as long as Pastor Brunson and the others I've mentioned are illegally in prison.” ###
08.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Brock Long to support Governor Roy Cooper’s request to declare a major disaster declaration for the state of North Carolina as a result of the impacts from rain and flooding that occurred in western North Carolina from May 15, 2018 to May 31, 2018. The rain event beginning on May 15 caused flash flooding and damage across several counties in western North Carolina through May 20. Additionally, the region was hit with Subtropical Storm Alberto from May 24 to May 31, causing further damage and the loss of five lives due to the combined accumulation of substantial and prolonged rainfall. The Senators requested that the damage caused by both flooding events to be assessed based on the totality of the damage to ensure North Carolinians receive the federal recovery assistance they need. “The heavy rainfall that occurred in Western North Carolina in May resulted in substantial damages for many North Carolinians,” said Senator Tillis. “As the region continues to recover, I join Senator Burr in urging FEMA to consider the entirety of the severe weather Western North Carolina received when deciding the appropriate federal recovery assistance required to help rebuild.” “In May, western North Carolina was overwhelmed by back-to-back storms of flash floods and heavy rains,” said Senator Burr. “For the residents who weathered them, these storms weren’t individual rainfalls, but a major weather event from which they are still recovering. For that reason, I firmly believe that FEMA should consider both of these incidents and their aftermath as one disaster as it assists affected communities.” Click HERE to read the letter. ###
08.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) visited Camp Lejeune to meet the new commander of the Naval Medical Center, Captain Jeffrey Timby, and Colonel Scalise. Senator Tillis also participated in a roundtable with military members and spouses to discuss personnel issues affecting military families and toured military homes on Camp Lejeune. Click HERE to download interview about the visit. Click HERE to download B-roll of the visit. ###
08.01.2018	Includes $240 Million for Military Construction in NC, Provisions to End Domestic Violence and Child Abuse WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, applauded the Senate passage of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. The bipartisan legislation includes more than a dozen provisions authored by Senator Tillis, including a bipartisan provision he authored with Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit an assessment of the potential purchase by the Republic of Turkey of the S-400 air and missile defense system from the Russian Federation, as well as an assessment regarding Turkey’s participation in the F-35 program as long it continues to unlawfully detain Pastor Andrew Brunson, a native North Carolinian. Other provisions authored by Senator Tillis will improve the lives of our servicemembers and military families, make critical improvements to North Carolina’s military installations, and provide the largest pay raise for servicemembers in nine years. As Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, Senator Tillis chaired an open hearing on the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. On a bipartisan basis, Senator Tillis and his subcommittee colleagues passed an across the board 2.6% pay raise, for our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. Additionally, Senator Tillis worked on a bipartisan basis to secure a number of provisions in the FY19 NDAA to reform how the United States military manages, trains, retains and recruits its officer corps. Senator Tillis’ Personnel Subcommittee mark also addressed the opioid crisis, provided Impact Aid for local school districts, supported military spouses, and established policies and procedures to end juvenile sexual assault and harassment, domestic violence, and child abuse. “I’m proud of the bipartisan work we accomplished with the NDAA, demonstrating a commitment to our servicemembers and our national security,” said Senator Tillis. “I am pleased my bipartisan provision with Senator Shaheen to delay the sale of F-35s to Turkey so we send a clear message to President Erdogan that the United States expects Turkey to uphold its obligations as a NATO ally, including respecting the due process rights of American citizens who reside in or travel to Turkey. I’m also pleased the NDAA included $240 million to upgrade North Carolina’s military installations and a number of provisions I championed that modernizes the management of officers and establishes policies and procedures to end juvenile sexual assault and harassment, domestic violence, and child abuse.” Senator Tillis’ Priorities in the NDAA: Delaying Transfer of F-35s to Turkey Directs the Secretary of Defense to submit an assessment regarding Turkey’s participation in the F-35 program. This provision is a direct response to the Turkish government’s wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, and Turkey’s troubling intention to purchase the S-400 system from Russia. The legislation also contains a Sense of Congress that the Republic of Turkey continues to unlawfully and wrongfully detain United States citizens, including Andrew Brunson. Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (DOPMA) Reform Introduces the most comprehensive reform of the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act since its inception in 1980, which includes key provisions to better align officer management with the objectives included in the National Defense Strategy. These provisions will modernize DOPMA to provide the services with the authority and flexibility to better recruit, support and retain officers. Addressing Opioid Abuse Requires the DOD to establish and maintain a Prescription Drug Monitoring Program that will allow bi-directional information sharing for designated controlled substances. This language, which was included in the Personnel Subcommittee mark of the Senate NDAA, was a result of the SASC Personnel roundtable hosted by Senator Tillis in Fayetteville, NC that examined pain management practices in the DOD, VA and Civilian health care sectors. Establish a 3-year comprehensive pilot program to minimize early opioid exposure and to prevent opioid misuse and abuse. This program will maximize opioid safety across the entire continuum of care and seeks to prevent the progression to misuse or abuse of opioid medications. Impact Aid Authorizes $40 million in supplemental Impact Aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities. Juvenile Sexual Assault and Harassment Requires the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) to establish policies and procedures to extend the same Title IX protections to students at DODEA schools who are victims of sexual harassment. Domestic Violence and Child Abuse Includes provisions from S. 2846, the Military Family PROTECT Act, bipartisan legislation co-introduced by Senators Gillibrand and Tillis that would establish multidisciplinary teams for military installations on child abuse and domestic violence. Authorizes a pilot program on the prevention of child abuse and training on safe childcare practices among military families. Establishes a new punitive article in the Uniform Code of Military Justice prohibiting domestic violence. Military Spouses Expands authority for non-competitive appointments of military spouses by federal agencies. FY19 Military Construction Funding for North Carolina: Fort Bragg $20.257M – Special Operations Facility; Search Evade Rescue and Evacuation (SERE) Resistance Training Lab Complex $12.109M – Special Operations Facility; Replace Training Maze and Tower $10M – Dining Facility Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point $55M – Flightline Utility Modernization – Maintenance upgrades to runways in support of Marine Corps and national security requirements $60M - Aircraft Maintenance Hanger for the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility Camp Lejeune $51.3M – 2nd Radio BN Complex, Phase 2 New River $32.58M - Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic Replacement North Carolina Total Funding: $241,246,000 ###
07.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, attended the swearing-in ceremony for VA Secretary Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville and former Senior Advisor to Senator Tillis. “I was honored to attend the swearing-in ceremony for VA Secretary Robert Wilkie and I want to congratulate him and his wonderful family on this well-deserved accomplishment. Robert is one of the most honorable and decent human beings I’ve ever worked with, and anyone who knows him has seen his drive to serve his country and his passion for honoring our nation’s veterans and servicemembers, qualities that will be tremendous assets at the VA,” said Senator Tillis. “Secretary Wilkie received overwhelming bipartisan support from the Senate, and he will undoubtedly hit the ground running in order to improve morale at the VA and build close relationships with VSOs, members of Congress, and rank and file VA staff. I look forward to working closely with Secretary Wilkie to overhaul the VA and making it a more efficient and effective organization that delivers timely and high-quality care for all veterans.” Background on Robert Wilkie: Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, most recently served as the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, confirmed unanimously by the Senate in November 2017. Wilkie served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since Tillis took office in 2015 until late 2017, advising him on national security, military, and veterans affairs issues. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor to honor the life and legacy of philanthropist and UNC System President Emeritus C. D. Spangler, Jr. Click HERE to watch the speech. “I had the privilege of meeting Dick Spangler 11 years ago, and since that first meeting, I never left an encounter with him without learning something new. He loved North Carolina and the UNC system that he helped build into what it is today,” said Senator Tillis. “Dick truly was a mentor to me, and I want to offer my condolences to his wife Meredith and daughters Anna and Abigail. Even though he is no longer here, his advocacy will live on for decades to come and I am thankful for having some time to share with Dick Spangler.” “C.D. Spangler, Jr. was a great North Carolinian, and he will forever be a giant of our state. He will be remembered as a gifted business leader, a compassionate philanthropist, and above all as a public servant who answered the call of the University at a critical time in its history,” said UNC President Spellings. “He believed in the power of education to change lives and transform a state, and he made those possibilities into reality through his life’s work. North Carolina is the prosperous, growing state that it is because of principled leaders like Dick. My thoughts are with his wife Meredith, and his daughters Abigail and Anna. This state will forever be indebted and grateful that Dick dedicated his life to public service, public education, and the state he loved so much.” ###
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and James Lankford (R-OK) issued the following joint statement after a Turkish court in Izmir ordered American citizen Andrew Brunson to be moved from prison to house arrest: “Today’s decision by the Turkish Court system to move Pastor Andrew Brunson from prison to house arrest is a step in the right direction and will help alleviate some of the unacceptable hardship and anguish Pastor Brunson and his family have endured over the last 20 months. The Government of Turkey should now release Pastor Brunson and immediately return him to the United States, an action that would begin to restore the longstanding friendship between our two nations.” Pastor Andrew Brunson has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. In April, Pastor Brunson was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. Senators Tillis, Shaheen, and Lankford led a bipartisan letter signed by 71 senators to President Erdogan calling for his release. Senator Tillis has visited Turkey twice, including meeting with Pastor Brunson and attending his trial on April 16th. Senator Shaheen visited Turkey earlier this month and met with Pastor Brunson. On Monday, Tillis and Shaheen announced that the conference report for the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) includes a provision authored by the senators that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a report to Congress assessing the Government of Turkey’s participation in the F-35 program. The provision is in-part based on standalone legislation Senator James Lankford (R-OK) introduced with Tillis and Shaheen earlier this year, and is a direct response to the Turkish government’s wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, and Turkey’s troubling intention to purchase the S-400 system from Russia. Tillis, Lankford, and Shaheen have continued to fight for Brunson’s release. Last week, they introduced a bill to demand Turkey end the unjust detention of US citizens and would reject international loans to Turkey until the harassment and detention of US citizens ends. ###
07.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), applauded the overwhelmingly bipartisan confirmation of Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, NC and Senior Advisor to Senator Tillis from 2015 until late 2017, as VA Secretary. “I’m proud that Robert Wilkie – my friend and former staffer – was confirmed on a broad and bipartisan basis. Robert is a leader blessed with a public servant’s heart who has the right experience, skill-set, and genuine love for our servicemembers and veterans to be a great VA Secretary,” said Senator Tillis. “Robert has already demonstrated what he is capable of during his short tenure as Acting VA Secretary, quickly working to improve morale at the VA, earning strong reviews and trust from VSOs, members of Congress, and VA staff, and moving decisively to execute the electronic health record project, which is a critical part of the VA transformation initiative. I look forward to working closely with Robert to overhaul the VA and making it a more efficient and effective organization that delivers timely and high-quality care for all veterans. Among a number of priorities, Robert will be instrumental in leading the implementation of the MISSION Act to improve both the VA health care system and the Choice program, as well as the implementation of the Electronic Health Record Modernization.” Background on Robert Wilkie: Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, is the current Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, confirmed unanimously by the Senate in November 2017. Wilkie served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since Tillis took office in 2015 until late 2017, advising him on national security, military, and veterans affairs issues. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice.
07.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issues the following statement following the Republican National Committee selecting Charlotte to host the 2020 Republican National Convention: “I congratulate Charlotte on being selected to host the 2020 Republican National Convention, a follow-up to the resoundingly successful 2012 Democratic National Convention. This event will bring significant economic stimulus to the region and will be another great opportunity to showcase Charlotte on the world stage. I applaud Charlotte Mayor Vi Lyles, the Charlotte City Council, and the city's business and civic leaders for their leadership in pursuing this economic opportunity for our great city.” The 2012 DNC Convention in Charlotte was widely lauded, injecting an estimated $163 million into the local economy, generating millions in tax revenue, and producing positive press exposure for the city and region. ###
07.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), co-chairs of the Senate NATO Observer Group, spoke at an event hosted by the Center for Strategic and International Studies about the recent NATO Summit and discussed the role that bipartisan Congressional leadership plays in tackling transatlantic security challenges. Click HERE to watch the discussion. Senator Tillis on the importance of NATO: “The U.S. Congress understands that NATO is a very important part of securing freedom across the world, including in the United States and Europe. The Senate NATO Observer Group is important because I believe we’re going to see other nations wanting to join NATO. This is not a time where you retreat from any nation of any size who is living up to the very strict requirements to be a NATO member, this is the time to bring more into the family of nations.” Senator Tillis on the U.S. withdrawing from NATO: “I think there would be nothing more unifying than if any president, whether it’s President Trump or one of the 20 people that plan on running in 2020, were to actually seriously withdraw from NATO. I think it would create a unifying event, unlike anything you’ve seen in U.S. history, in terms of actions the U.S. Congress would take. I don’t think President Trump intends to withdraw from NATO, I just think that is the way he tries to negotiate, but in this particular case I think he needs to know that is not the path we should go down.” Senator Tillis on Russia’s threat to NATO: “The way you can tell Vladimir Putin is being dishonest on Russian meddling in the U.S. or other nations is that his lips are moving. There is not an honest bone in his body in respects to how Russia is partaking in hybrid warfare, meddling in elections, or meddling in public policy. We have the data and intelligence to substantiate it, we have the input of our NATO allies and other partners, and we need to recognize that Russia is not an honest broker. A lot of work needs to be done on their behalf before we reach a level where we even consider a meaningful relationship with them.” ###
07.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr announced the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) awarded a $3 million grant to cover 100 percent of the costs associated with the expansion of the Western Carolina State Veterans Cemetery in Black Mountain, North Carolina. The grant will fund the construction of 1,300 preplaced crypts, 564 in-ground cremated remain sites, 1,360 columbarium niches, roadways, landscaping, and supporting infrastructure. The project will develop approximately 4 acres, and provide continued services for approximately 124,000 veterans and their eligible family members. “The VA Veterans Cemetery Grants Program is vital for VA national cemeteries to operate and allow military families to have an opportunity to visit family members who passed away,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank the VA for this grant to cover the expansion costs of the Western Carolina State Veterans Cemetery and provide services for nearly 124,00 veterans and eligible family members in the area.” “Not only will this grant expand the Western North Carolina State Veterans Cemetery, it will also help provide vital services for 124,000 local veterans and their family members,” said Senator Burr. “I appreciate the Department of Veterans Affairs’ efforts to ensure that these resources are available to men and women in North Carolina who have honorably served our country.” Background Information In its 40th anniversary since inception, the VA’s Veterans Cemetery Grants Program is designed to complement the 136 VA national cemeteries across the country, with the strategic goal of providing 95 percent of the veteran population with convenient access to a burial option within 75 miles of their home. The closest national cemetery is the VA’s Mountain Home National Cemetery in Mountain Home, Tennessee, which is approximately 75 miles away. The closest grant funded cemetery is M.J. Dolly Cooper Veterans Cemetery in Anderson, South Carolina, which is approximately 104 miles away. ###
07.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Special Committee on Aging, attended a hearing on Supporting Economic Stability and Self-Sufficiency as Americans with Disabilities and their Families Age. During the hearing, Senator Tillis spoke on the work of Ben Wright, a business owner from North Carolina who was testifying before the committee. Mr. Wright spoke to the Committee about the importance of reducing the stigma that prevents employers from hiring Americans with disabilities. Ben and his wife, Amy, opened Bitty & Beau’s Coffee in 2016, named after their two youngest children who have down syndrome. Today, Bitty & Beau’s employs more than 70 adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities across three locations. In 2017, Amy Wright was named CNN’s Hero of the Year. “I want to thank you, Ben, for starting this incredible business and your work to bring the Wilmington community together. When I visited last year, we talked about what more we can do to really provide more opportunities for a lot of people with disabilities who want to work. They want to work in part to make money, but they also want to work to have independence. If you’re having a down day and you can get down to Wilmington, North Carolina and visit Bitty & Beau’s, I guarantee you the rest of your day is going to be fantastic. The joy and the optimism is palpable.” Click HERE to watch the remarks. ###
07.20.2018	Letter Also Calls for Administration to Work with Faith Community on Reunification WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Michael Bennet (D-CO), James Lankford (R-OK), Chris Coons (D-DE), and Susan Collins (R-ME) sent a letter to President Trump, signed by a bipartisan group of more than two dozen senators, stating that the default position of the United States should be to keep families together. Last month, Senator Tillis introduced the Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act, legislation that requires that children and their parents remain together during their legal proceedings. “When DHS detains families trying to cross our borders, it should be the policy of the United States to keep the families together while the immigration courts decide their case,” said Senator Tillis. “In the cases that families were separated, faith-based organization can be a great resource to reunify these families, and I urge the Administration to utilize these able and willing partners.” The letter is the first bipartisan statement firmly opposing the family separation policy and urging the administration to work with the faith community on its efforts to reunify families. U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Angus King (I-ME), James Inhofe (R-OK), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Tom Carper (D-DE), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Tina Smith (D-MN), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) also signed the letter. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We write to urge your administration to prioritize the reunification of families and to ensure that, from this point forward, the default position of the United States of America is to keep families together. While we represent constituents from all faiths and political backgrounds, we have all heard one consistent message—the United States government should not separate children from their families except in extreme circumstances. As we work to find a permanent solution, we urge the administration to use all available resources currently at its disposal to reunite families as soon as possible. Throughout our history, faith-based organizations have partnered with the federal government to help achieve its humanitarian goals. Faith-based organizations, including groups like Sojourners, Catholic Charities USA, World Vision, the National Association of Evangelicals, the Christian Community Development Association, Church World Service, and World Relief are willing and able to support reunification efforts and provide critical services for children and families in need. We encourage you to partner with the faith community to assist with family reunification and keeping families together in the future. We remain committed to working together to fix our broken immigration system. Enforcement of our immigration laws should be a high priority, but we must also adhere to our core moral values as Americans. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. ###
07.19.2018	Legislation Requires U.S. to Reject International Loans to Turkey Until Campaign of Harassment and Detention Ends WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced bipartisan legislation with Senators Bob Corker (R-TN), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), James Lankford (R-OK), and Bill Nelson (D-FL) to restrict loans from international financial institutions to Turkey until the Turkish government ends the unjust detention of U.S. citizens. In 2016, Turkey imprisoned American Pastor Andrew Brunson and indicted him on unsubstantiated charges earlier this year. A Turkish court ruled yesterday that Brunson will remain in custody until the next hearing on his case in October. In April, the senators led a bipartisan group of 71 senators in a letter to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan demanding Brunson’s release. Other U.S. citizens, locally employed staff of the U.S. embassy, and tens of thousands of Turkish citizens still face unacceptable harassment and human rights violations by the Government of Turkey. “The Turkish government should be fully aware that their continued wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Brunson and other innocent American citizens will be met with consequences from Congress,” said Tillis. “Maintaining the longstanding partnership between the United States and Turkey is in the best interest of both nations, and will require President Erdogan and his government to begin treating American citizens in Turkey with the respect and due process rights we would expect from a NATO ally. It is long past time for Pastor Brunson to be released and reunited with his family in America.” “The detention and harassment of American citizens in Turkey cannot continue,” said Corker. “With Turkey continuing to rebuff good faith efforts by Congress and the administration to resolve this, we must take further action until the rights of our citizens and employees in Turkey are respected. Pastor Brunson’s continued imprisonment on what seem to be baseless charges is an outrage that demands we insist on his immediate and unconditional release.” “The U.S.-Turkey relationship should be strong and based on shared objectives from stability in the Middle East, to NATO’s resilience, and economic prosperity for both of our countries,” said Menendez. “I find it difficult to see how this relationship moves forward, and how we work on these shared objectives, if the Turkish government continues to detain Pastor Brunson as well as locally employed staff, journalists, and civil servants. The United States cannot continue to support loans to Turkey from International Financial Institutions so long as the Turkish government targets and detains U.S. citizens for cynical use as political pawns.” “The continued detention of Pastor Andrew Brunson, other American citizens and embassy staff is both inhumane and unwarranted, and is causing tremendous pain to their families and loved ones,” said Shaheen. “Turkish officials can end this now by releasing the detained Americans. The United States and Turkey are NATO allies, and we should be working together like allies. But the unjustified imprisonment of American citizens cannot stand, so it is imperative that Congress take action to demand their freedom, which is precisely what this bill will do.” “President Erdogan has continued to violate the trust between our two nations by holding Dr. Brunson and other innocent Americans behind bars on fabricated charges,” said Lankford. “Until Turkey begins acting like a NATO ally again, we will continue to pursue measures like sanctions and loan restrictions against them. We desire cooperation and strengthening ties between our countries, but the US Government has a responsibility to ensure the safety and welfare of its own people.” “Erdogan continues to undermine Turkey’s democracy, crack down on journalists and violate human rights. And he continues to hold Pastor Brunson on completely baseless charges. This thuggish behavior must not go unchecked,” said Nelson. The Turkey International Financial Institutions Act directs the U.S. executive of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) to oppose future loans, except for humanitarian purposes, to Turkey by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and EBRD until the administration can certify to Congress that Turkey is “no longer arbitrarily detaining or denying freedom of movement to United States citizens (including dual citizens) or locally employed staff members of the United States mission to Turkey.” Turkey relies heavily on loans from both the IFC and EBRD. In 2017, Turkey ranked second among all IFC recipients with $927 million in new long-term commitments. Turkey was the largest EBRD borrower in 2017, securing about $1.8 billion in new commitments. Text of the legislation is available here. ###
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr announced the Department of Transportation awarded $100 million to the City of Charlotte for the design and construction of the Charlotte Blue Line Extension project. This light rail project is a 9.3-mile extension with 11 new stations to the Blue Line, bringing its total up to 26 stations on 18.9 miles of track. The extension connects the University of North Carolina Charlotte directly to the city center. The light rail line runs along an exclusive right-of-way and is projected to carry a daily ridership of 24,500 by 2035. “The City of Charlotte’s Light Rail has been a project built upon over the years, dating back to my time as Speaker of the House and appropriating millions of dollars as it was first beginning,” said Senator Tillis. “Now that the project has shown success and continues to expand, I am proud to work with local, state, and Congressional leaders to advocate for funds on the federal level. I thank the DOT and Secretary Chao for the $100 million grant for the Charlotte Blue Line Expansion that will allow the Light Rail to reach thousands of more North Carolinians in the Charlotte region.” “I’m pleased to see another much-needed investment into North Carolina’s infrastructure and transportation system,” said Senator Burr. “Charlotte, the state’s largest population center, will receive $100 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation to help complete the extension of the light rail system called the Lynx Blue Line. This important transit system will eventually ferry thousands of workers and students every day, and I thank Secretary Chao for her consideration on this matter.” ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement following his meeting with Supreme Court Nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh: Click HERE for B-roll of the meeting. “I was incredibly impressed with Judge Brett Kavanagh’s extensive resume and impeccable qualifications when he was nominated to the Supreme Court, and I’m even more impressed after meeting with him. I am confident Judge Kavanaugh is a mainstream jurist who understands his job is to interpret laws based on the text of the Constitution, and not to serve as an activist and extension of the legislative branch. “It is disappointing that many Senate Democrats continue to give in to the pressure from partisan special interest groups, with many of them announcing their opposition—sight-unseen—before Judge Kavanaugh was even nominated. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I look forward to strongly supporting his nomination and will work to ensure the Senate moves swiftly to confirm him.” ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), James Lankford (R-OK), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) issued the following joint statement after a Turkish court in Izmir ordered American citizen Andrew Brunson to remain imprisoned until his trial resumes on October 12: “Pastor Andrew Brunson has languished in a Turkish prison for the last two years, causing tremendous hardship and heartache for him and his family. He is an innocent man and has been unlawfully detained simply because he is an American pastor who assists all those in need, no matter their ethnicity or religious beliefs. Turkey and the United States are longstanding NATO allies and it is imperative to the interests of both nations that Turkey starts behaving like one. We call for the immediate release of Pastor Brunson and other American citizens currently detained in Turkey, including Serkan Golge. We encourage the Administration to use all the tools at their disposal to ensure the release of these innocent people before Congress is forced to press for even stricter legislative measures that will be difficult to unwind.” Pastor Andrew Brunson has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. In April, Pastor Brunson was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. Senators Tillis, Shaheen, Lankford, and Graham led a bipartisan letter signed by 71 senators to President Erdogan calling for his release. Senator Tillis has visited Turkey twice, including meeting with Pastor Brunson and attending his trial on April 16th. Senators Shaheen and Graham visited Turkey earlier this month and met with Pastor Brunson. The senators also met with President Erdogan and pressed for Pastor Brunson’s release. In response to Turkey’s actions, Senators Tillis and Shaheen secured a provision in the Senate’s FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. The provision is in-part based on standalone legislation introduced by Senators Lankford, Tillis, and Shaheen. Shaheen and Lankford also worked with Graham to include targeted sanctions against Turkish officials complicit in the unlawful arrest of Americans, in this year’s Fiscal Year 2019 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs appropriations bill. ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement following his meeting with Supreme Court Nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh: Click HERE for B-roll of the meeting. “I was incredibly impressed with Judge Brett Kavanagh’s extensive resume and impeccable qualifications when he was nominated to the Supreme Court, and I’m even more impressed after meeting with him. I am confident Judge Kavanaugh is a mainstream jurist who understands his job is to interpret laws based on the text of the Constitution, and not to serve as an activist and extension of the legislative branch. “It is disappointing that many Senate Democrats continue to give in to the pressure from partisan special interest groups, with many of them announcing their opposition—sight-unseen—before Judge Kavanaugh was even nominated. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I look forward to strongly supporting his nomination and will work to ensure the Senate moves swiftly to confirm him.” ###
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), James Lankford (R-OK), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) issued the following joint statement after a Turkish court in Izmir ordered American citizen Andrew Brunson to remain imprisoned until his trial resumes on October 12: “Pastor Andrew Brunson has languished in a Turkish prison for the last two years, causing tremendous hardship and heartache for him and his family. He is an innocent man and has been unlawfully detained simply because he is an American pastor who assists all those in need, no matter their ethnicity or religious beliefs. Turkey and the United States are longstanding NATO allies and it is imperative to the interests of both nations that Turkey starts behaving like one. We call for the immediate release of Pastor Brunson and other American citizens currently detained in Turkey, including Serkan Golge. We encourage the Administration to use all the tools at their disposal to ensure the release of these innocent people before Congress is forced to press for even stricter legislative measures that will be difficult to unwind.” Pastor Andrew Brunson has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. In April, Pastor Brunson was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. Senators Tillis, Shaheen, Lankford, and Graham led a bipartisan letter signed by 71 senators to President Erdogan calling for his release. Senator Tillis has visited Turkey twice, including meeting with Pastor Brunson and attending his trial on April 16th. Senators Shaheen and Graham visited Turkey earlier this month and met with Pastor Brunson. The senators also met with President Erdogan and pressed for Pastor Brunson’s release. In response to Turkey’s actions, Senators Tillis and Shaheen secured a provision in the Senate’s FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. The provision is in-part based on standalone legislation introduced by Senators Lankford, Tillis, and Shaheen. Shaheen and Lankford also worked with Graham to include targeted sanctions against Turkish officials complicit in the unlawful arrest of Americans, in this year’s Fiscal Year 2019 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs appropriations bill. ###
07.17.2018	Co-Chairs Tillis and Shaheen welcome Senators Barrasso, Booker, Coons, Ernst, Gardner, King, Merkley, Rounds, Rubio, and Van Hollen WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), the co-chairs of the Senate North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Observer Group announced the appointment of new members. The Senate NATO Observer Group was re-established by the senators earlier this year with the support of Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. Senate Majority Leader McConnell appointed Senators John Barrasso (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Marco Rubio (R-FL). Senate Minority Leader Schumer appointed Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ), Chris Coons (D-DE), Angus King (I-ME), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). The Senate NATO Observer Group was first established in 1997 to serve as a connection between the Administration, NATO and the U.S. Senate. The Senate NATO Observer Group has been re-established since, in 2002, but was disbanded in 2007 due to a lack of NATO enlargement rounds. The Senate NATO Observer Group re-established by Senators Tillis and Shaheen in 2018 has an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability, NATO enlargement and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. “During a time when NATO members face increasing conventional and non-conventional threats from our adversaries, it is vital for all members to work towards strengthening our alliance and advancing our shared strategic objectives,” said Senator Tillis, co-chair of the Senate NATO Observer Group. “I’m excited to welcome the new members of the Senate NATO Observer Group, which demonstrates strong, bipartisan support for maintaining America’s commitment to NATO.” “NATO is where our transatlantic community’s security interests and values converge, and the Senate NATO Observer Group will help ensure the continuity of effort between the Senate, NATO headquarters and our Allies in an increasingly complex world,” said Senator Shaheen, co-chair of the Senate NATO Observer Group. “As our community of democracies continues to come under attack by those who wish to reshape the rules-based international order, often by force, this link will be critical to educating lawmakers and citizens alike on the importance of having Allies in difficult times. For this reason, I am pleased to welcome our new members, whose participation and dedication underscores the Senate’s – and the United States’ – commitment to NATO.” “NATO has been crucial to American security and prosperity for 70 years. At a time of renewed international threats, we must demonstrate clear, bipartisan support for the most successful alliance in history, said Senator Coons. “I am honored to join the NATO Observer group, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen the transatlantic alliance to meet the challenges of the 21st century.” “The NATO Observer Group is important during this critical time, as we continue to see evolving aggression against our NATO allies by America’s adversaries and to ensure NATO is able to push back against Russia’s grey zone operations,” said Senator Ernst. “I am honored to join this group and want to extend my thanks to Ambassador Hutchison and General Scaparrotti for their support.” “The alliance between the United States and NATO remains strong, but with emerging threats across the world it is important that we are working in unison to provide the necessary tools and resources to maintain a strong defense and alliance,” said Senator Gardner. “I appreciate the opportunity to serve in the NATO Observer group, and I fully support efforts to examine ways that we can further strengthen the most successful military alliance in history.” “After the President spent his week in Europe dividing our allies and embracing Putin, it is clear that the Senate must play a larger part in strengthening our relationships with NATO allies – and that is exactly what the Senate NATO Observer Group can do,” said Senator King. “The President has the Constitutional authority to conduct foreign policy, but Congress also has the responsibility to conduct oversight to ensure that our NATO commitments, and those of our allies, are being upheld – and given Russia’s recent history of using military force in attempts to change international borders, and more subtle tactics to undermine democratic political institutions, those international commitments to the continued strength of NATO are vital to America’s national security. The reestablishment of the Senate NATO Observer Group will help ensure that we are prepared to stand with our friends in the face of evolving threats to national security – particularly Russian efforts to sow discord in the alliance, threaten its neighbors, and interfere in democratic elections – and reaffirms America’s commitment to this critical alliance.” “The United States and our NATO partners continue to face new and emerging threats from our adversaries,” said Senator Rounds. “By re-establishing the NATO Observer Group, the Senate will be able to obtain timely information on the important decisions being made and the threats we face. I look forward to being a part of this group as we work to further strengthen our strong bond with our NATO allies, promote peace and combat global security concerns.” “I am proud to join the NATO Observer Group, especially at a time when Vladimir Putin is seeking to undermine the alliance by pitting member states against each other and influencing foreign elections in favor of anti-NATO candidates,” said Senator Rubio. “It is in America’s national security interest for NATO to be strong and unified. Vladimir Putin must know that his aggression in Ukraine and continued meddling in the United States, Europe, and elsewhere, will not go unchecked.” “NATO was founded in the aftermath of the unspeakable horrors of World War II with a clear mission: an attack on any one country in the Alliance was an attack on all,” said Senator Van Hollen. “Time and time again, we have banded together to fight for freedom, democracy and the rule of law – and in our darkest hour, after the September 11 attacks, our allies stood with us without hesitation or equivocation. In our current political climate, the need to affirm our commitment to NATO is more important than ever, and I’m proud to join this effort.” ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on U.S.-Russia relations after the meeting between President Trump and Vladimir Putin: “There cannot be any equivocation: Vladimir Putin is to blame for Russia’s poor relations with the United States and the rest of the free world. It is Putin’s regime that illegally invaded Crimea, props up Assad’s murderous regime in Syria, assassinates dissidents on foreign soil, and meddles in the elections of the United States and its European allies. “I’ve long maintained that America needs to take a strong position when it comes to Russia. While we should work with Russia on the specific instances where our nations share mutual objectives, we must confront Russia when they threaten the interests and well-being of America and its allies. “Dialogue is not a bad thing, however, any meaningful improvement in our relationship with Russia must be solely dependent on whether Putin’s government starts to behave as a good faith actor on the world stage. Unfortunately, recent history casts serious doubt on if that is even a possibility.”
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), co-chairs of the Senate NATO Observer Group, attended the 2018 NATO Summit in Brussels and participated in a panel discussion focusing on the importance of the United States’ role in NATO. Click HERE to watch the discussion. “The United States of America is only as strong as her allies, and we must reaffirm our commitment to the alliances we have built to defend freedom against adversaries,” said Senator Tillis. “There is no applause line among the American people for ‘let’s get out of NATO,’ and I am very confident NATO will be stronger and more unified ten years from now with more members and funding. Unlike authoritarian countries, the United States has co-equal branches to decide our treaties. The NATO alliance has wide-spread support among members of the U.S. Congress and any attempt to leave this important organization would not be final until Congress has spoken.” Earlier this year, Senators Tillis and Jeanne Shaheen re-established the Senate NATO Observer Group to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. The NATO Summit will convene Alliance members to engage on national security issues impacting member states and the global community at-large, and to strengthen transatlantic bonds. ###
07.10.2018	Nomination reported favorably out of committee, next step is full Senate vote on confirmation WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, applauded the bipartisan committee approval of Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, NC and Senior Advisor to Senator Tillis from 2015 until late 2017, to be Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Wilkie’s nomination now moves to the full Senate for a vote. “I applaud the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs for overwhelmingly approving Robert Wilkie to be Secretary of the VA. I’ve had the honor of working with Robert for three years, and his combination of knowledge, experience, humility, and heart will serve him well in his new role leading the agency that serves our nation’s veterans. “In his short time as the acting VA Secretary, Robert quickly worked to improve morale at the VA, earning strong reviews and trust from VSOs, members of Congress, and VA staff. I have no doubt once he is confirmed by the full Senate that he will bring his professional expertise and a personal insight and intensity to the role that will transform the VA to better serve veterans across the nation.” Senator Tillis introduced Wilkie at his Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs hearing to consider his nomination to be secretary of the VA on June 27. Background on Robert Wilkie: Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, is the current Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, confirmed unanimously by the Senate in November 2017. Wilkie served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since Tillis took office in 2015 until late 2017, advising him on national security, military, and veterans affairs issues. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. ###
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement following President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh as Associate Justice on the Supreme Court of the United States: “Judge Brett Kavanaugh has impeccable credentials, serving on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the last decade and earning a reputation for being a mainstream and fair-minded jurist. Judge Kavanaugh undoubtedly has the right qualifications to serve as an associate justice on the Supreme Court, and I look forward to meeting with him in the coming weeks in advance of his confirmation hearing. “I hope all my colleagues, regardless of their party affiliation, will ignore the pressure from partisan special interest groups by fairly and thoughtfully assessing Judge Kavanaugh based on his outstanding credentials and qualifications. ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) supported passage of the bipartisan Farm Bill, which included an amendment co-sponsored by Senator Tillis supporting rural economic development. The bipartisan legislation passed the Senate by a vote of 86-11. “Agriculture is North Carolina’s largest industry, with more than 50,000 farmers contributing $84 billion to our state’s economy. However, farmers all across the country, including North Carolina, are facing low commodity prices and increasing volatility, and we must give them the certainty they need to keep the agricultural industry strong,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan Farm Bill makes the investment in our farmers that they need, and I want to thank Chairman Roberts for his leadership. I look forward to reaching an agreement with the House and sending this bill to the President’s desk soon.” Tillis-championed provisions include: Bipartisan amendment co-sponsored by Senator Tillis that: Creates a new grant program to invest in local efforts to launch new companies and create new jobs in rural communities. Expands the use of the USDA Community Facilities Program to invest in business incubators, makerspaces, and job training centers to provide additional resources for communities to support their entrepreneurs. Expands access to capital for rural entrepreneurs by encouraging investment to rural areas. Funding for the Economic Adjustment Assistance Program - a program highly utilized by North Carolina’s cotton and textile industry. Language authorizing the creation of a National Animal Vaccine and Veterinary Countermeasures that prioritizes foot and mouth disease vaccine – a disease that if introduced would devastate North Carolina’s vibrant and important livestock industry. Maintains crucial farmer safety net including crop insurance - a vital risk management tools that allow our farmers to manage unpredictable risks such as adverse weather and ensure that they can continue providing safe, affordable and wholesome food and fiber to consumers around the world next year. Click here to read the legislation, summaries, and amendments. The legislation has the support of more than 500 groups representing thousands of agriculture, food, nutrition, hunger, forestry, conservation, rural, business, faith-based, research, and academic interests. ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced an amendment to the Farm Bill that would add work requirement for certain recipients of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Dean Heller (R-NV) are original co-sponsors of the amendment. Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis speak on the amendment. The amendment would: Require nondisabled SNAP recipients ages 18-59 without dependents under age 6 to work or participate in employment training programs 20 hours per week. Expand qualifying work programs to include apprenticeships, time-limited unpaid or volunteer work, and state approved work training programs. Establish a revised ineligibility process allowing one month for initial compliance and requiring a 12-month ineligibility period for the first work requirement violation and a 36-month ineligibility period for subsequent violations unless an individual obtains sufficient employment or is no longer subject to the work requirements at an earlier time. Allow two years for implementation and give the Secretary discretion to allow states more time if necessary. Allow states to opt-out of enforcing updated requirements in exchange for that state’s eligibility to obtain the federal administrative cost share for administering the SNAP program. Make no adjustments to funding for SNAP benefits. ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement following Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy’s announcement that he will retire from the Supreme Court of the United States: “For the last thirty years, Justice Kennedy has served honorably on the Supreme Court of the United States and has left a lasting impact on American jurisprudence. I want to thank him and his family for his service to the American people and wish him well in his retirement. “As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I look forward to carefully examining the nominee put forth by the President to fill the vacancy in the coming months. It is important that whoever is nominated has the background and experience necessary to firmly uphold the Constitution and commit to the rule of law.” ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, introduced Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, NC and Senior Advisor to Senator Tillis from 2015 until late 2017, at his nomination hearing to be Secretary of the VA. Click HERE to watch the speech. Senator Tillis’ Statement:Chairman Isakson, ranking member Tester and distinguished members of the committee, I am proud to introduce my friend and colleague Robert Wilkie as the nominee for Secretary of the VA. I’ve had the honor of working with Robert for three years. Sometimes he worked for me and other times I worked for him. His combination of knowledge, humor, humility, and heart has endeared him to my staff and to scores of North Carolina constituents – including many servicemembers and veterans. Robert was born in Frankfurt, West Germany the son of an Army artillery officer. He literally grew up on Fort Bragg and he lived most of his early life in the Fort Bragg-Fayetteville area of North Carolina. He received his BA from Wake Forest University and a JD from Loyola College of Law (New Orleans). He received his Master of Laws from Georgetown University and his Masters in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College.Robert is an intelligence officer in the United States Air Force Reserve. Previously he served in the Atlantic Intelligence Command and Joint Forces Intelligence Command and the United States Navy. Robert has long been well regarded in Washington, especially here on Capitol Hill, and he’s developed close relationships with members on both sides of the aisle. He has also forged excellent working relationships with committee staff and he is universally recognized as a team player and mentor. Throughout his distinguished career in public service, Robert has also been a trusted advisor to some of our nation’s most respected leaders, including Condoleezza Rice, Robert Gates, Donald Rumsfeld, and Jim Mattis. Frankly, given his depth of experience, I was pleasantly surprised and very proud to have Robert accept a position with a newly sworn-in freshman senator. But it was clear to me from the start that Robert was destined to serve our nation at a higher level. Last year, Robert received that call from the administration when he was nominated to be Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Robert demonstrated his extraordinary skills in a short period of time, so it was no surprise to me that the administration identified him as a perfect fit to be Secretary of the VA. When he was appointed to the acting role as VA Secretary, he quickly worked to improve morale at the VA, earning strong reviews and trust from VSOs, members of Congress, and VA staff. He moved decisively to execute the electronic health record project, which we all know is a critical part of the VA transformation initiative. And he also successfully pushed the VA MISSION Act to the finish line. Robert has all of the education and professional experience required of a Secretary of the VA. But perhaps what makes Robert best suited to the job is his lifelong experience as an army brat and the personal experience as the son of a gravely wounded soldier and a service-member himself. He has literally lived the experience, so I know that Robert will bring his professional experience and a personal insight and intensity to the role that will serve our veterans well. Thank you Mr. Chairman. ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) applauded Senate passage of their bipartisan legislation that would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. “We have an obligation to care for the brave men and women in uniform who were exposed to harmful substances from toxic burn pits in Iraq and Afghanistan,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation begins the process of fulfilling that obligation so we can better understand the health effects associated with exposure to burn pits and then provide the needed resources to our veterans. I’m proud this legislation passed the Senate, and I look forward to working with Senator Klobuchar and our colleagues to get it signed into law soon.” “After the Vietnam War, it took the U.S. government years to recognize that there was a link between Agent Orange and its devastating health effects on our soldiers. With an increasing number of servicemembers returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan citing illnesses, we can’t make that same tragic mistake again by failing to identify the devastating health effects associated with burn pits,” said Senator Klobuchar. “This legislation ‎will make sure we have the staff and resources to treat the health problems of our veterans exposed to burn pits. We need to do right by our veterans and ensure they receive the care and support they need when they come home.” The burning of waste on military bases exposed many servicemembers to a variety of potentially harmful substances. Plastic, aerosol cans, electronic equipment, human waste, tires, and batteries were thrown into open pits, often doused with jet fuel, and set on fire. As a result, many deployed soldiers were exposed to smoke from these open-air burn pits. Health effects from exposure to chemicals found in burn pits may include cancer, neurological effects, reproductive effects, respiratory toxicity, and cardiovascular toxicity. Troops who have worked in these areas are subject to higher rates of asthma, emphysema, and rare lung disorders. ###
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, joined Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Ranking Member Jon Tester (D-MT) to introduce the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation to increase veterans’ disability benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “We made a promise to the men and women who served our country that they would be taken care after serving our country and protecting the freedoms we enjoy every day,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to stand with every member of the Senate VA Committee to fulfill that promise and introduce this important legislation to ensure our nation’s veterans receive the benefits they need to live in today’s economy.” “Our men and women in uniform have sacrificed greatly, and it is our duty to provide veterans and their families with the benefits they so rightly deserve,” said Senator Isakson. “As chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, I’m proud to introduce this bill to increase veterans’ benefits in keeping with rising costs of living.” “This increase is an important token of our nation’s gratitude for veterans and their families,” said Senator Tester. “Veterans’ benefits must reflect today’s economic realities and this bipartisan legislation will allow families to keep up with the rising costs of housing, utilities and food.” The bill, which was co-sponsored by every member of the Senate VA committee, would increase the rates of VA disability compensation, dependency compensation for surviving children and spouses, as well as the clothing allowance for veterans based on rising costs of living. This cost-of-living adjustment, which would be equal to the amount of the adjustment given to Social Security recipients, is determined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index on a yearly basis. The cost-of-living adjustment for veterans would go into effect on Dec. 1, 2018. In addition to Tillis, Isakson and Tester, the original co-sponsors of the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2018 are U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), John Boozman (R-AR), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Dean Heller (R-NV), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Patty Murray (D-WA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK). ###
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Angus King (I-ME) was signed into law. The VA Senior Executive Accountability (SEA) Act of 2018 will strengthen accountability of senior executives at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). There are numerous instances within the VA where Senior Executive Service (SES) employees used their leadership positions as leverage to be reassigned to another position for their own personal gain, or were reassigned, rather than disciplined, for poor performance. Following exposure of this practice, the VA halted their Appraised Value Offer (AVO) program, a program used to move senior executives that was often costly to taxpayers. Despite its past scandals, the VA has recently reinstated the AVO program. The VA Senior Executive Accountability Act will improve transparency by requiring the VA to inform Congress about where senior executives are being moved. Further, this legislation will require the secretary to approve of a reassignment of the VA’s approximately 350 SES employees and submit a semiannual report to Congress detailing the reason as to why the employees were reassigned and the associated costs. “Senior VA executives should not be using their positions for personal gain nor should the VA be using reassignments in place of disciplinary action or firing senior executives who have acted improperly,” said Senator Tillis. “The VA Senior Executive Accountability Act will address these problems by improving transparency and accountability within the VA and ensuring our veterans are being provided the best people to give them the care they need and deserve.” “VA executives are tasked with a sacred responsibility: caring for the veterans who have sacrificed so much for our country,” said Senator King. “This law will help increase transparency within the VA and ensure that senior VA executives are held accountable, so the agency can focus on its duty to our veterans and our nation. Companion legislation, H.R. 2772, was originally introduced by Congressman Scott Taylor (R-VA-02) and unanimously passed the House of Representatives on July 28, 2017. The Senate passed H.R. 2772 with an amendment by Senators Tillis and King on May 16, 2018, and the legislation unanimously passed the House of Representatives with the Tillis-King amendment on June 7, 2018. ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, a group of senators led by Thom Tillis (R-NC), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Tom Cotton (R-AR), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ted Cruz (R-TX), and Dean Heller (R-NV) introduced the Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act, which keeps families together while ensuring the integrity of our nation’s immigration laws. The legislation requires that children and their parents remain together during their legal proceedings. Original co-sponsors include Chuck Grassley (R-IA), James Lankford (R-OK), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Steve Daines (R-MT), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), John Thune (R-SD), Bob Corker (R-TN), Mike Crapo (R-ID), John Hoeven (R-ND), John Boozman (R-AR), Rob Portman (R-OH), David Perdue (R-GA), Tim Scott (R-SC), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Kennedy (R-LA), Todd Young (R-IN), and Mitch McConnell (R-KY). The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act includes provisions to ensure the humane and fair treatment of migrant children and families by setting mandatory standards of care for family residential centers. Families will be ensured access to suitable living accommodations, food and water, medical assistance, and any other service necessary for their care. In addition to keeping children and their parents together, the legislation also keeps children safe by requiring children to be removed from an individual who presents a clear and present danger to the health and safety of the child, including: situations in which DHS cannot verify an individual is the parent of the child; a parent with a violent history of committing aggravated felonies; a child who is a victim of sexual or domestic abuse; a child who is a victim of trafficking. To prioritize the timely adjudication of family cases, the legislation authorizes 225 new immigration judges and requires the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General to prioritize resolving the cases of children and families in family residential centers. Unlike other proposals – which incentivize illegal immigration by codifying “catch and release” policies into law – this legislation actually solves the problem by keeping families together while also ensuring the integrity of our immigration laws. “Migrant children should not be separated from their families, and both sides of the aisle can agree that we must quickly and permanently address this problem. Our legislation provides the solution by clarifying federal law to ensure that families will remain together and receive good care as they go through the legal process,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the coming days and codifying this fair and commonsense solution into law.” “It is cruel to separate families. But it is also cruel and irresponsible to return to a policy that encourages parents to bring their children on a dangerous journey,” said Senator Marco Rubio. “This bill will allow us to change the law so that families will remain together while awaiting prioritized proceedings. We should pass it immediately and reunite families.” “I very much support this solution to a difficult problem,” said Senator Lindsey Graham. “Simply put, my goal is to make sure families are not separated, but prevent the rampant abuse of ‘catch and release’ where people are being released who never show up for their hearings. This bill prevents breakup for families, but requires adults to show up. This is the winning combination.” “This bill would protect children and ensure that families are not separated while their cases are being adjudicated in court, and would end the policy of catch and release of families at the border,” said Senator Ron Johnson. “We must stop incentivizing people to come to this country illegally. I hope that my Democrat colleagues in the Senate will work with us to advance this bill into law.” “This legislation would keep families together while their immigration status is determined instead of simply releasing illegal immigrants into our country,” said Senator Tom Cotton. “This is a very difficult situation, but our bill provides a simple solution, one that will both stop the separation of families and enforce our laws.” “Treating these families with compassion by allowing them to remain together and enforcing the laws on our books don’t have to be mutually exclusive,” said Senator John Cornyn. “This legislation allows children to stay with their parents while they await their court proceedings in a separate, safe facility. The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act is a solution everyone can get behind, and I urge Democrats to join our efforts so we can end this crisis quickly.” “The crisis occurring on the border is one we’ve witnessed for far too long,” said Senator Ted Cruz. “Children have been the greatest victims of our broken immigration system. This must stop. Congress can come together and ensure that children are kept with their parents while they await a hearing. I hope that my Democratic colleagues will join us to end this crisis, enforce the rule of law, and keep families together.” “Nobody wants to see children separated from their families, period. That’s why I joined several of my colleagues in urging Attorney General Jeff Sessions to stop the practice of dividing families who have illegally crossed the border until Congress can pass legislation to keep families together,” said Senator Dean Heller. “The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act is that legislation, and I was proud to help introduce it.” "This is a simple, straight-forward solution to a problem we all agree needs fixing,” said Senator Chuck Grassley. “It reflects the American people’s humanity and respects the rule of law by permanently ensuring that families can stay together in family residential centers while their cases are pending. This is exactly our purview as members of the legislative branch: make laws to address pressing issues. There is an urgent need to end the crisis, so I look forward to the bill’s rapid consideration." “We are a nation that believes in the rule of law, the unity of families, and the protection of children; our immigration laws must reflect these values,” said Senator James Lankford. This common-sense bill keeps families together as much as possible at the border. Now is also the time to fix our outdated immigration laws to secure the border, address DACA, crack down on human trafficking, and also incentivize the legal immigration process.” “The targeted legislative proposal we are offering today focuses on immediately fixing this problem and keeping families together,” said Senator Deb Fischer. “It would expedite immigration court proceedings in these cases and help keep children safe during the process. This can become law and solve the problem if our colleagues choose to set politics aside – I hope they will.” “We can, and should, treat children and families in our immigration system with compassion, while enforcing our nation’s immigration laws. Everyone is working hard to keep these families together and find a long-term solution to address our flawed immigration system,” said Senator Joni Ernst. “The act of forcibly separating children from their parents is a clear sign of how broken our immigration system is and contradicts our values as Americans,” said Senator Jerry Moran. “Our priority must be the welfare of these children. These separations must end, and I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and promptly fix this circumstance.” “Three things are true,” said Senator Ben Sasse. “First, default family separation is cruel – kids belong with their moms and dads whenever possible. Second, our immigration policy is broken – dumb policies are magnets for human traffickers and the unsecure border is a national security risk. Third, Americans don’t use children as political hostages – anyone trying to use this humanitarian crisis for politics should be ashamed. I’ve called on the President to end this new, discretionary policy and I’m committed to working with my colleagues on legislative solutions as well. The Administration can change course today and Congress can pass this legislation today – let’s get this done.” “Protecting the children coming across our borders must be a priority,” said Senator Pat Roberts. “This common sense legislation ensures parents who can prove their relationship to the child are kept together as a family throughout immigration proceedings.” “Our bill immediately addresses the humanitarian crisis at our border,” said Senator Steve Daines. “Families should not be torn apart as they work their way through our legal system.” “We should not separate children from their parents at the border, and Congress and the administration should work to keep families together whenever possible while enforcing our laws and protecting the border,” said Senator Johnny Isakson. “Our porous borders combined with challenging conditions in other parts of the world have caused an influx of immigrants entering the country illegally. The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act would help us confront this influx and improve the processing of immigration cases by adding judges and residential centers while also allowing families to stay together.” “The issue of family separation at the border demands a legislative solution,” said Senator Orrin Hatch. “We cannot continue to separate young children from their parents, but we also cannot continue with misguided, ineffective catch-and-release policies. This legislation provides the solution we need. It keeps families together while cases are processed without tying the hands of law enforcement.” “I’m proud to support this key legislation that would that would overturn the court case that requires family separation, permanently addressing the root cause of the crisis,”said Senator Jim Inhofe. “As we continue to improve our border security and build the wall, this legislation focuses on keeping families together and ensuring they receive proper care.” “While the issues surrounding our immigration system are complex, we can all agree that innocent children should be protected, and I am hopeful the administration will take executive action to halt the separation of families on our southern border,” said Senator Bob Corker. “Congress also must act and provide a longer term solution to the many challenges facing our nation’s immigration system. The Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act is an important step in the right direction.” “President Trump wants to enforce the law and keep families together, and this bill does both,” said Senator Perdue. “Alternatively, what the Democrats have proposed would incentivize more people to come into our country illegally. Now is the time for cooperation from both sides in Congress, so we can successfully send a solution to the President’s desk.” “Today I joined with my colleagues in introducing legislation to provide much-needed legal certainty and solve this problem once and for all,” said Senator Rob Portman. “The bill will override the Flores settlement agreement with regard to parents and their children who are apprehended at the border, and ensure that families are kept together during their immigration enforcement proceedings. Moreover, this legislation will help expedite these enforcement cases by expediting the cases of families in detention. It also provides more immigration judges and increases resources to ensure we have the infrastructure in place to care for these families and children properly. I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation and fix this problem.” “No one wants to see children separated from their parents,” said Senator John Hoeven. “This legislation requires DHS to keep families together, while enforcing our immigration laws. We’re a nation of laws, but also a compassionate nation, and this bill ensures that we uphold these standards.” “I agree with President Trump that we must secure the border, enforce the law, and end policies that encourage more illegal immigration,” said Dr. Bill Cassidy. “This bill allows families who come into our country illegally to be processed together instead of separately, and I hope Democrats will help us pass it into law.” “America can be a nation of laws while still being a nation of compassion,” said Senator Todd Young. “The separation of families happened as a result of years of bad policies that have come to a boiling point. Now is the time to act to address the immigration backlog without separating families.” Read the bill text here. ###
06.19.2018	“We should not be separating children migrants from their families. Congress can take action to provide better long-term certainty and consistency on this issue in a way that does not incentivize unauthorized border crossings. Our nation is long-overdue for commonsense immigration reform, particularly when it comes to providing a path to naturalization for DACA recipients and securing our borders. I believe we can strike the right balance between being compassionate—especially towards children who were brought here through no fault of their own—and also being smart by taking steps needed to prevent future illegal immigration.”
06.19.2018	Also Includes Important Policy Improvements for Servicemembers and Military Families Championed by Tillis WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, voted to pass the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. The bipartisan legislation includes a provision authored by Senators Tillis and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. The legislation also includes several key provisions championed by Senator Tillis to improve the lives of our servicemembers and military families, make critical improvements to North Carolina’s military installations, and provide the largest pay raise for servicemembers in nine years. The Tillis-Shaheen provision is a direct response to the Turkish government’s wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, and Turkey’s troubling intention to purchase the S-400 system from Russia. The provision explicitly states that Congress finds that the Turkish government wrongfully detaining Andrew Brunson, and is denying him due process rights consistent with international norms. As Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, Senator Tillis chaired an open hearing on the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. On a bipartisan basis, Senator Tillis and his subcommittee colleagues passed an across the board 2.6% pay raise, for our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. Additionally, Senator Tillis worked in a bipartisan basis to secure a number of reforms in the FY19 NDAA to decades-old reforms to how the United States military manages, trains, retains, and recruits its officer corps. Senator Tillis’ Personnel Subcommittee markup addresses the opioid crisis, provides impact aid for local educational agencies, supports military spouses, and establishes policies and procedures to end juvenile sexual assault and harassment, domestic violence, and child abuse. “This NDAA is a testament to our commitment to rebuild the military and ensure our men and women in uniform have the resources and support they need to protect our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “I am pleased my bipartisan provision with Senator Shaheen to delay the sale of F-35s to Turkey was included so we can send a clear message to President Erdogan that the United States expects Turkey to uphold its obligations as a NATO ally, including respecting the due process rights of American citizens who reside in or travel to Turkey.” “I’m also pleased the NDAA includes $260 million to upgrade North Carolina’s military installations and a number of provisions I championed to modernize the management of officers and establish policies and procedures to end juvenile sexual assault and harassment, domestic violence, and child abuse. This bipartisan legislation is a win for our men and women in uniform in North Carolina and across the country,” continued Senator Tillis. “I want to thank my colleagues in the Senate for this bipartisan effort and look forward to a quick resolution with the House so we can send this legislation to the president’s desk to be signed into law.” A summary of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 is available here. Senator Tillis’ Priorities in the NDAA: Delaying Transfer of F-35s to Turkey Directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. This provision is a direct response to the Turkish government’s wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, and Turkey’s troubling intention to purchase the S-400 system from Russia. Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (DOPMA) Reform Introduces the most comprehensive reform of the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act since its inception in 1980, which includes key provisions to better align officer management with the objectives included in the National Defense Strategy. These provisions will modernize DOPMA to provide the services with the authority and flexibility to better recruit, support, and retain officers. Addressing Opioid Abuse Establish a 3-year comprehensive pilot program to minimize early opioid exposure and to prevent opioid misuse and abuse. This program will maximize opioid safety across the entire continuum of care and seeks to prevent the progression to misuse or abuse of opioid medications. Impact Aid Authorizes $40 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities. Juvenile Sexual Assault and Harassment Requires the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) to establish policies and procedures to protect students at DODEA schools who are victims of sexual harassment. Domestic Violence and Child Abuse Includes provisions from S. 2846, the Military Family PROTECT Act, bipartisan legislation co-introduced by Senators Gillibrand and Tillis that would establish multidisciplinary teams for military installations on child abuse and domestic violence. Authorizes a pilot program on prevention of child abuse and training on safe childcare practices among military families. Establishes a new punitive article in the Uniform Code of Military Justice prohibiting domestic violence. Military Spouses Expands authority for non-competitive appointments of military spouses by federal agencies. FY19 Military Construction Funding for North Carolina: Fort Bragg $20.257M – Special Operations Facility; Search Evade Rescue and Evacuation (SERE) Resistance Training Lab Complex $12.109M – Special Operations Facility; Replace Training Maze and Tower $10.0M – Dining Facility Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station $106.86M – Flightline Utility Modernization – Maintenance upgrades to runways in support of Marine Corps and national security requirements $27M - Aircraft Maintenance Hanger for the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility Camp Lejeune $51.3M – 2nd Radio BN Complex, Phase 2 New River $32.58M - Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic Replacement North Carolina Total Funding: $260,106,000 ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to speak on North Carolina native Andrew Brunson, who has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. In April, Pastor Brunson was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. Senator Tillis has visited Pastor Brunson in Turkey twice, including attending his trial on April 16th. Tillis led a bipartisan letter signed by 66 Senators to President Erdogan calling for his release. Senators Tillis and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) secured a provision in the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. The Senate Armed Services Committee voted overwhelmingly, 25-2, to pass the NDAA and it will be considered by the full Senate next week. Click HERE to watch the speech. Senator Tillis on the U.S.-Turkey Alliance: “Turkey has been an ally of the United States since 1952. If you don’t know much about the NATO alliance, what you need to know is that the alliance commits every member of NATO to send their men and women in uniform into harm's way to defend the national security of any nation of the alliance. Over the past month or so we've seen a would-be adversary in North Korea release three prisoners, we have seen Venezuela release a prisoner, but in Turkey, a NATO ally, we've seen them hold a man for over a year and a half without charges.”Senator Tillis on his provision in the NDAA: “I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who voted to put a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act that makes us rethink whether we need our relationship with Turkey, particularly around the joint strike fighter. Turkey is a NATO ally and has access to our weapon system and manufacture a lot of the critical parts for it. What we offered in the NDAA is an examination whether or not that relationship makes sense, one, because of the way they are treating one of our American citizens and not letting him come home, and two, if that is the behavior of a NATO ally, is that where we should put our supply chains for one of the most important weapons in our arsenal? I think we need to look at it.”Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer: “I want to thank my colleague from North Carolina and agree with him. I believe President Erdogan is doing very bad things to the Turkish people, to our NATO alliance in the Middle East with his anti-Israeli position, and to allow the leader of Turkey to get away with all of this stuff without maximum pressure makes no sense. So I thank my colleague from North Carolina.” ###
06.06.2018	Bill Includes Tillis Provisions To Empower VA to Innovate and Modernize Veteran Care WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, attended the signing ceremony of the John S. McCain III, Daniel K. Akaka and Samuel R. Johnson VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (MISSION) Act. Senator Tillis is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan law, which will strengthen healthcare services at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) while streamlining the department’s community care programs to ensure veterans receive efficient, timely and quality care, whether inside the VA system or from providers in their communities. The legislation includes two provisions authored by Senator Tillis that will: Allow the VA to use a third-party entity to electronically process health care claims from medical providers. Authorize the VA to implement pilot programs for new and innovative payment and delivery models for VA healthcare that will allow the department to modernize and adapt to the ever-changing needs of the veteran population. “Today is a step in the right direction to modernize the VA and implement commonsense solutions to deliver on the VA’s mission of providing veterans with the best healthcare, resources, and support possible,” said Senator Tillis. “The VA MISSION Act will ensure that veterans have timely access to quality care, whether in a brick and mortar VA facility, or through one of VA’s community partners. I’m pleased that my provisions to improve payment processing and authorize new pilot programs to modernize the VA were included. I applaud Congress for coming together on a bipartisan basis to follow through on the promises we made to those who served our country, and I thank President Trump for joining us to support our nation’s veterans.” The VA MISSION Act consolidates and improves VA community care programs, which allow veterans to receive healthcare services provided by private hospitals and doctors. The legislation also includes provisions to improve VA’s ability to hire high-quality healthcare professionals, expand VA caregiver benefits to veterans of all eras and establishes a process to evaluate and reform VA’s existing facilities to best serve veterans. The bill also authorizes and appropriates funding for the VA to continue the Veterans Choice Program until the new, streamlined ‘Veterans Community Care Program’ established in this legislation is implemented. In addition, the legislation will help improve existing VA health care and services by removing barriers for VA healthcare professionals to practice telemedicine, strengthening processes for opioid prescribing by VA and community care providers, and eliminating impediments to hiring and retaining of VA health care professionals. The VA MISSION Act received broad support from leading veterans groups that represent millions of veterans in the United States. A group of 38 veteran and military advocacy organizations wrote to the House and Senate in support of the VA MISSION Act. Read a copy of the letter here. The VA MISSION Act was passed by the full U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 347-70 on May 16, and the full Senate by a vote of 92-5 on May 23. A one-page summary of the VA MISSION Act is available here, and a section-by-section summary is available here. ###
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will award a $147 million grant for key infrastructure projects across Eastern North Carolina’s highway corridors. The grant, which will be the largest infrastructure project in the state, will help widen up to 25 miles of road along I-95 and upgrade the remaining sections of U.S. 70 to interstate grade, allowing the freeway to become I-42. “I am pleased that North Carolina will receive the resources we need to continue updating our crucial highway corridors,” said Senator Burr. “These projects will modernize our roads and decrease congestion in areas that have become overburdened by traffic and delays. They will also improve our emergency preparedness in the event of a natural disaster and will establish reliable access to four vital military bases. In the process, this work and development will help boost economic growth in local communities. I am proud of Senator Tillis’ work and the strong, bipartisan support North Carolina’s delegation has shown on this important issue.” “Today’s decision by the Department of Transportation to provide resources to widen I-95 and allow U.S. 70 to become I-42 is great news that will produce long-lasting benefits in Eastern North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “These improvements will result in reduced traffic congestion, improved access to military bases, and increased investments in our state’s economy. I want to thank Secretary Chao for this grant to make these important infrastructure improvements and Senator Burr for his partnership advocating for these projects.” Background: The grant is part of Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) funding and will be distributed to the North Carolina Department of Transportation (NCDOT). In 2015, the Senate passed H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), which included provisions introduced by Senators Burr and Tillis to designate portions of U.S. 70 as a high priority corridor and future interstate. The INFRA grant will help connect U.S. 70 from I-40 to the Port in Morehead City. The project will improve access along I-95 and U.S. 70 for four military bases: Fort Bragg, Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, Camp Lejeune Marine Base, and Cherry Point Marine Air Station. In addition to expanding highway access, the project will provide 300 miles of broadband backbone to connect Eastern North Carolina to telecomm access. ###
06.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded Raleigh being selected as one of five finalists to host the U.S. Army’s new Futures Command, an organizational effort to consolidate the personnel that looks at the future threats the Army faces and what technology is needed to counter those threats. “This decision comes as no surprise. Raleigh would be a perfect host of the Futures Command and the perfect home for the soldiers and their families, DoD civilians, academics, scientists, engineers, and innovators who are involved with the effort,” said Senator Tillis. “Raleigh is in close proximity to Fort Bragg and the area offers an incredible combination of high quality of life, affordable cost of living, and world-class research institutes that would support the Army. I will continue to work with our state leaders on a bipartisan basis over the next month to show that Raleigh truly is Army Strong.” The U.S. Army announced today that Raleigh was one of five cities that made the final cut from a field of 15. The Army expects the new headquarters to house about 500 civilian workers and uniformed staff who will work under a four-star general. A final decision will be made by June 30. ###
06.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that the Department of Interior informed Congress that Swain County will receive the remaining $35.2 million owed to them from the North Shore Road settlement this year. Last year, Senator Tillis helped secure $4 million that was appropriated to Swain County in 2012 but was never transferred to the county. The $35.2 million was included as a part of Secretary Zinke’s spending plan for 2018 construction projects at National Park Service. In the early 1940s, the federal government flooded several communities in Swain County to build the Fontana Dam. In 1943, the federal government promised to rebuild the 30-mile North Shore Road that was also flooded. For over six decades the government failed to deliver on that promise and, in 2007, agreed to a cash settlement of $52 million. In 2010 the Department of Interior, Swain County, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and the State of North Carolina entered into a -Memorandum of Agreement- to "settle any and all claims under the 1943 Agreement" by December 31, 2020. “Today is the beginning of the end for Swain County’s long fight to receive the funds it is owed from the North Shore Road settlement,” said Senator Tillis. “The Department of Interior’s commitment to reimburse the $35.2 million this year and make good on the promise to repay Swain County for the damage caused when the federal government flooded its communities is great news for the people who have been affected. I want to thank Secretary Zinke for making this a priority and I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues to ensure Swain County receives the money swiftly.” "One of my top priorities as your Secretary of the Interior is making sure the federal government is a good neighbor and a good land manager for federal lands like national parks and battlefields. Making sure Swain County received the funds from the Department of the Interior was key," said Secretary Zinke. "Senators Tillis made sure this project did not get lost in the paperwork. I'm grateful for their tenacity on behalf of North Carolina." ###
05.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued a video statement in honor of America’s fallen heroes ahead of Memorial Day on Monday, May 28, 2018. Click HERE to watch the video. “Memorial Day is a very important day that we all reflect on the men and women in uniform who paid the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our freedoms around the world. Please join me in taking a moment to think about those men and women, and also take an opportunity to thank a veteran or someone who is currently for their service to our nation.” ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, members of North Carolina’s Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Governor Roy Cooper requesting information on the distribution of Hurricane Matthew recovery funds provided to the state of North Carolina through the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Relief (CDBG-DR) Program. In the letter to Governor Cooper, members of the Congressional Delegation ask for clarification on why the State of North Carolina has been slow to allocate Hurricane Matthew recovery funds, with HUD recently designating North Carolina as a “slow spender” not within the monthly spending pace required to fully use the funds by the closeout date of August 2023. Since the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Matthew’s landfall, North Carolina’s Congressional Delegation has been working on a bipartisan basis to secure federal funding to assist in the state’s ongoing recovery efforts. In February, the N.C. Congressional Delegation secured roughly $168,000,000 in CDBG-DR funds to support North Carolina’s family and community needs, including housing, infrastructure, and jobs. This additional CDBG-DR funding added to the $236,500,000 that the N.C. Congressional Delegation has secured in past spending bills. “It is deeply concerning that these federal disaster dollars are not being released when many North Carolina families are still living in temporary housing provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),” the members wrote. “We strongly urge your office in consultation with North Carolina Emergency Management to distribute funding quicker. Timely and efficient administration of these secured funds is critically important to families and businesses across North Carolina still recovering from hurricane Matthew. Any further delay may also have unacceptable consequences on any future disaster aid requests.” Full text of the letter to Governor Cooper is below. May 25, 2018 Dear Governor Cooper: As members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation, we write to request additional information about the distribution of funds provided to the State through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Relief (CDBG-DR) Program. It is our understanding that to date, North Carolina has received $404 million from HUD for 2016 Hurricane Matthew recovery efforts, but as of May 2018, nearly two years later, the State has failed to allocate significant portions of these funds. Our Congressional delegation remains committed to the successful recovery of our state and its families and businesses. On October 8, 2016, Hurricane Matthew made landfall in North Carolina, devastating the central and eastern areas of our state. The severity of the flooding impacted homes and businesses far beyond the boundaries of the 100-year floodplain. The storm caused power outages in more than 800,000 households, displaced nearly 3,750 residents from their homes, shutdown 635 roads and 34 school systems, and tragically took the lives of 28 North Carolinians. Immediately in the aftermath, North Carolina’s Congressional delegation began working with your office, the relevant federal agencies, and colleagues on the Appropriations Committees to ensure that impacted North Carolinians received the federal assistance necessary to begin the rebuilding process. On January 18, 2017, HUD announced $198.5 million in CDBG-DR funding for North Carolina’s recovery efforts. The CDBG-DR grant program supports a variety of disaster recovery activities including housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, and infrastructure repair. On May 18, 2017 and August 1, 2017, HUD released $6.1 million and $31 million, respectively, in CDBG-DR funding to North Carolina. The State received its final allocation of $168 million on April 11, 2018 as a result of the North Carolina delegation’s continued work to include the funds in the fiscal year (FY) 2018 federal budget. Our offices invested significant time and resources to assist those impacted by Hurricane Matthew. During and after the storm, we made every effort to support the agencies and nonprofits who came to North Carolina to assist our residents. Therefore, it is troubling to learn that these CDBG-DR funds are delayed in reaching those in most need of assistance. It is even more frustrating to learn that according to HUD, our state is not within the monthly spending pace required to fully use the assistance by the target closeout date of August 2023 and has been designated a “slow-spender.” North Carolina has the potential to lose millions of dollars in disaster relief aid if it continues to allocate funds at this rate. This leads us to the following questions: Is the state action plan, required by HUD to receive CDBG-DR dollars, finalized for the funds released on or prior to August 1, 2017, and is that $236 million in CDBG-DR assistance available to the state of North Carolina? Have you submitted to HUD a state action plan for spending the additional $168 million in CDBG-DR funds for approval? How much of the available CDBG-DR funds have been spent to date? What is the timeline for getting the remaining CDBG-DR dollars to those in need? What are the primary goals of your administration when spending the CDBG-DR funds? Have you determined if housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, or infrastructure repair are the most pressing needs of our residents? Are these goals and priorities consistent with those made available to the public, as required? What public awareness campaigns have been conducted by your office to bring awareness to these available funds to maximize education and understanding for our constituents who would be eligible for these CDBG-DR funds? It is deeply concerning that these federal disaster dollars are not being released when many North Carolina families are still living in temporary housing provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). We strongly urge your office in consultation with North Carolina Emergency Management to distribute funding quicker. Timely and efficient administration of these secured funds is critically important to families and businesses across North Carolina still recovering from Hurricane Matthew. Any further delay may also have unacceptable consequences on any future disaster aid requests. The North Carolina Congressional delegation remains ready to work with your office to ensure the successful and complete recovery of our state and its resilient residents. Sincerely, Thom TillisRichard BurrWalter B. JonesVirginia FoxxRichard HudsonDavid RouzerRobert PittengerGeorge Holding ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, voted in favor of the committee’s markup of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. The committee voted overwhelmingly, 25-2, to pass the bill, which supports $716 billion in funding national defense for fiscal year 2019. The legislation includes several key provisions championed by Senator Tillis to improve the lives of our servicemembers and military families, makes critical improvements to North Carolina’s military installations, and provides the largest pay raise for servicemembers in nine years. As Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, Senator Tillis chaired an open hearing on the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 earlier this week. On a bipartisan basis, Senator Tillis and his subcommittee colleagues passed an across the board 2.9% pay raise, for our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. Additionally, Senator Tillis worked in a bipartisan basis to secure a number of reforms in the FY19 NDAA to decades-old reforms to how the United States military manages, trains, retains, and recruits its officer corps. Senator Tillis’ personnel subcommittee markup addresses the opioid crisis, provides impact aid for local educational agencies, supports military spouses, and establishes policies and procedures to end juvenile sexual assault and harassment, domestic violence, and child abuse. “This NDAA is a testament to our commitment to rebuild the military and ensure our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to protect our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that my provisions to upgrade North Carolina’s military installations, modernize the management of officers, and establish policies and procedures to end juvenile sexual assault and harassment, domestic violence, and child abuse are included. I want to thank my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee for this bipartisan effort that will positively affect our North Carolina installations, servicemembers, and military families.” The legislation now moves to the full Senate for consideration. A summary of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 is available here. Senator Tillis’ Priorities in the NDAA: Delaying Transfer of F-35s to Turkey Directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. This provision is a direct response to the Turkish government’s wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, and Turkey’s troubling intention to purchase the S-400 system from Russia. Defense Officer Personnel Management Act (DOPMA) Reform Introduces the most comprehensive reform of the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act since its inception in 1980, which includes key provisions to better align officer management with the objectives included in the National Defense Strategy. These provisions will modernize DOPMA to provide the services with the authority and flexibility to better recruit, support, and retain officers. Addressing Opioid Abuse Establish a 3-year comprehensive pilot program to minimize early opioid exposure and to prevent opioid misuse and abuse. This program will maximize opioid safety across the entire continuum of care and seeks to prevent the progression to misuse or abuse of opioid medications. Impact Aid Authorizes $40 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities. Juvenile Sexual Assault and Harassment Requires the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) to establish policies and procedures to protect students at DODEA schools who are victims of sexual harassment. Domestic Violence and Child Abuse Includes provisions from S. 2846, the Military Family PROTECT Act, bipartisan legislation co-introduced by Senators Gillibrand and Tillis that would establish multidisciplinary teams for military installations on child abuse and domestic violence. Authorizes a pilot program on prevention of child abuse and training on safe childcare practices among military families. Establishes a new punitive article in the Uniform Code of Military Justice prohibiting domestic violence. Military Spouses Expands authority for non-competitive appointments of military spouses by federal agencies. FY19 Military Construction Funding for North Carolina: Fort Bragg $20.257M – Special Operations Facility; Search Evade Rescue and Evacuation (SERE) Resistance Training Lab Complex $12.109M – Special Operations Facility; Replace Training Maze and Tower $10.0M – Dining Facility Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station $106.86M – Flightline Utility Modernization – Maintenance upgrades to runways in support of Marine Corps and national security requirements $27M - Aircraft Maintenance Hanger for the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility Camp Lejeune $51.3M – 2nd Radio BN Complex, Phase 2 New River $32.58M - Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic Replacement North Carolina Total Funding: $260,106,000 ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, applauded the President signing the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act into law. The bipartisan legislation is the result of work from Congressional members on both sides of the aisle to a reach consensus on how to provide relief for smaller financial institutions from Dodd-Frank regulations that were meant for the biggest, most complex institutions, while also ensuring a safe financial system. Following the passage of Dodd-Frank, many financial institutions all across the county were unable to handle the one-size-fits-all model of regulations imposed on them, no matter their size. As a result, many of these institutions were forced to close or consolidate, greatly reducing the access to capital for consumers and small business owners. For example, in March of 2008, North Carolina had 102 banks headquartered in the state. Due to accelerated consolidation after the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the number of North Carolina-headquartered banks fell to 50 as of March 2018. “Since 2008, North Carolina’s regional and community banks have been decimated by the burdensome regulatory standards set by Dodd-Frank, resulting in a more than 50 percent decline in banks across the state and restricted resources for consumers and small business owners” said Senator Tillis. “The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act is bipartisan legislation that has been years in the making after hearing of the negative effects of Dodd-Frank all across the country. This legislation is a positive step in right-sizing the regulatory burden to allow banks to focus on consumers and small-business owners, not on red-tape from the federal government.” “North Carolina bankers are grateful to Senator Tillis for the leadership role he played in advancing regulatory reform through Senate Bill 2155 as a co-sponsor of the bill and an advocate for the role a strong a vibrant banking sector plays in serving the needs of consumers, small businesses and communities throughout North Carolina,” said Peter Gwaltney, President & CEO of the North Carolina Bankers Association. “S. 2155 contains many benefits for consumers, including a very important provision, sponsored by Senator Tillis, that protects veterans and their families from predatory mortgage lending practices. Military families and veterans deserve the best we can give them in return for their service to our country.” “Credit unions and the millions of Carolinians they serve are grateful for the leadership of Sen. Thom Tillis in passing common-sense regulatory reform with S.2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act,” said John Radebaugh, President and CEO of Carolinas Credit Union League. “This is regulatory “right-sizing” of overreaching measures that are intended for Wall Street, yet weigh heavily on Main Street and credit unions, in which compliance has drained an average of twenty percent from operating budgets. S.2155 strikes the right balance, maintaining necessary provisions for Wall Street and the functions of the CFPB and other regulators. Thanks to Sen. Tillis and all who supported it, credit unions on Main Street can return more time and energy to the needs of our citizens and communities.” Included in the legislation is the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), which would protect veterans from targeted predatory home loan practices by requiring lenders to demonstrate a material benefit to consumers when refinancing their mortgage. To learn more about the legislation, click here. ###
05.24.2018	Includes Tillis Provisions To Empower VA to Innovate and Modernize Veteran Care WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, voted to pass the John S. McCain III, Daniel K. Akaka and Samuel R. Johnson VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (MISSION) Act. The bipartisan legislation will strengthen healthcare services at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) while streamlining the department’s community care programs to ensure veterans receive efficient, timely and quality care, whether inside the VA system or from providers in their communities. The legislation includes two provisions from Senator Tillis that will: Allow the VA to use a third-party entity to electronically process health care claims from medical providers. Authorize the VA to implement pilot programs for new and innovative payment and delivery models for VA healthcare that will allow the department to modernize and adapt to the ever-changing needs of the veteran population. “While the Department of Veterans Affairs is one of the most complex organizations in all of government, we must continue to work towards modernizing and implementing commonsense solutions to deliver on its mission of providing veterans with the best healthcare, resources, and support possible,” said Senator Tillis. “The VA MISSION Act ensures that veterans have timely access to quality care, whether in a brick and mortar VA facility, or through one of VA’s community partners. I’m particularly pleased that my provisions to improve payment processing and authorize new pilot programs to modernize the VA were included in the final bill. I applaud Congress for coming together on a bipartisan basis to follow through on the promises we made to those who served our country, and I look forward to this legislation being signed into law soon.” The VA MISSION Act consolidates and improves VA community care programs, which allow veterans to receive healthcare services provided by private hospitals and doctors. The legislation also includes provisions to improve VA’s ability to hire high-quality healthcare professionals, expand VA caregiver benefits to veterans of all eras and establishes a process to evaluate and reform VA’s existing facilities to best serve veterans. The bill also authorizes and appropriates funding for the VA to continue the Veterans Choice Program until the new, streamlined ‘Veterans Community Care Program’ established in this legislation is implemented. Acting VA Secretary Robert Wilkie notified Congress that funding for the program will run out as early as May 31, 2018. In addition, the legislation will help improve existing VA health care and services by removing barriers for VA healthcare professionals to practice telemedicine, strengthening processes for opioid prescribing by VA and community care providers, and eliminating impediments to hiring and retaining of VA healthcare professionals. The VA MISSION Act received broad support from leading veterans groups that represent millions of veterans in the United States. A group of 38 veteran and military advocacy organizations wrote to the House and Senate in support of the VA MISSION Act. Read a copy of the letter here. The VA MISSION Act was passed by the full U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 347-70 on May 16. Following the 92-5 vote by the full Senate today, it now advances to the president’s desk to be signed into law. A one-page summary of the VA MISSION Act is available here, and a section-by-section summary is available here. ###
05.24.2018	The bipartisan provision requires the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress removing Turkey from participation in the F-35 program WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) announced they have secured a provision in the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that directs the Secretary of Defense to submit a plan to Congress to remove the Government of Turkey from participation in the F-35 program. The plan to Congress must include timelines associated with the removal of the Turkish government from participation in the F-35 program, so as to cause the least impact on the remaining international program partners. The plan must also outline the steps required to prohibit the transfer of any F-35 aircraft to the Turkish government from the United States. The Tillis-Shaheen provision is in-part based on standalone legislation Senator James Lankford (R-OK) introduced with Tillis and Shaheen last month, and is a direct response to the Turkish government’s wrongful imprisonment of Pastor Andrew Brunson, and Turkey’s troubling intention to purchase the S-400 system from Russia. The provision explicitly states that Congress finds that the Turkish government is unlawfully and wrongfully detaining Andrew Brunson, and is denying him due process rights consistent with international norms. “This bipartisan provision sends a clear message to President Erdogan that the United States expects Turkey to uphold its obligations as a NATO ally, including respecting the due process rights of American citizens who reside in or travel to Turkey,” said Senator Tillis. “I truly wish we could instead be working to pass an NDAA that would strengthen the relationship between Turkey and the United States. However, the Turkish government’s recent actions, including the wrongful treatment of Pastor Brunson, has made this Congressional response both necessary and appropriate.” “There is tremendous hesitancy in transferring sensitive F35 planes and technology to a nation who has purchased a Russian air defense system designed to shoot these very planes down,” said Senator Shaheen. “This amendment is meant to give the Departments of State and Defense the guidance and congressional support they need to ensure that this does not happen at this time. Further, until we see clear progress on the case of Pastor Andrew Brunson, the acceptance of this amendment shows that there’s little appetite to deliver these planes, transfer their titles to Turkey, or celebrate the F35 exchange in any way. Senators Tillis and I continue to urge the Turkish government to put its alliance and membership in NATO first and cease its unconscionable behavior toward innocent civilians—both American and Turkish—at once.” ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) chaired a Judiciary Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration hearing on the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA) and exploited loopholes affecting unaccompanied children. Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ opening statement. Click HERE to watch the full hearing. “Integral to the success of this country is a robust, fair, and accountable immigration system – one that learns from mistakes of the past, adapts to the problems of the present, and guides aspirations for the future,” said Senator Tillis.“I hope after today’s testimony, we will continue to have a bipartisan policy discussion that strikes a balance between protecting unaccompanied minors who face legitimate humanitarian challenges and preventing violent actors such as MS-13 from exploiting loopholes.” “Both sides can agree that the status quo is unsustainable and unacceptable. Reforming our laws does more than prevent unlawful entry of those whom we would welcome through the proper channels. Bipartisan reform can promote our nation’s humanitarian goals here and abroad, while also preventing members of MS-13 from infiltrating unaccompanied minor populations to enter the country and recruiting new members along the way,” continued Senator Tillis.“Bipartisan reform would send a message to our law enforcement and immigration officers at the border that the federal government has their backs. Most importantly, reform reaffirms our country’s commitment to an immigration system that incentivizes fair, efficient, and lawful entry.” The subcommittee members heard testimony from 2 panels that included the following witnesses: Panel 1 The Honorable Dean Heller – United States Senator for the State of Nevada The Honorable Bob Menendez – United States Senator for the State of New Jersey Panel 2 Ms. Alysa Erichs - Acting Deputy Executive Associate Director of Homeland Security Investigations, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security Mr. Matthew Albence - Executive Associate Director of Enforcement and Removal Operations, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security The Honorable Richard Hudson - Deputy Chief of the Operations Program for the Law Enforcement Operations Directorate, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security Mr. Steve Wagner - Acting Assistant Secretary for the Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services ###
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, applauded the House’s passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, bipartisan legislation to improve our nation’s financial regulatory framework and promote economic growth. Included in the legislation is the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), which would protect veterans from targeted predatory home loan practices by requiring lenders to demonstrate a material benefit to consumers when refinancing their mortgage. “Passage of this bill is proof that Congress can come together in a bipartisan and bicameral basis, and pass meaningful legislation on behalf of the American people. The inclusion of bipartisan legislation I introduced to protect veterans and servicemembers from predatory home-lending will also help families from being targeted by bad actors abusing the VA home loan program, and is a win for the military community,” said Senator Tillis. “Over the last three years, I have heard from financial institutions across North Carolina about the impact of burdensome regulations, which has restricted access to capital for Americans all across the country. Dodd-Frank’s harmful one-size-fits-all approach has proven to be a failure, and this legislation helps ensure farmers, small-business owners, and first-time home buyers have the resources they need to allow our economy to thrive again.” The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, which passed the Senate in March, now heads to President Trump to be signed into law. Background on the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018:The Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA) home loan program was designed to provide veterans and servicemembers with the opportunity to purchase their own home through a VA insured mortgage from a private lender. VA loans have lower credit score requirements than other mortgages, and often don’t require down payments. Since its inception, it has insured more than 20 million home loans to help veterans become homeowners. However, today a small number of lenders are abusing the program by utilizing misleading advertising tactics and engaging in a practice known as “churning” – the refinancing of a home loan over and over again to generate fees and profits for lenders at the direct expense of veterans and their families, often without their knowledge. Over a period of time from April of 2016 through August of 2017, over 1,000,000 VA home loans were made, including 50,000 loans in North Carolina alone, and almost half of those were refinanced VA loans. The vast majority of those refinanced loans are being originated by good actors, but this legislation addresses a pool of refinanced VA loans—over 40,000 nationwide and 1,000+ in North Carolina over the aforementioned time period—wherein veterans may have been subjected to abusive lending practices by some in the marketplace who engage in “churning.” ###
05.22.2018	Subcommittee Unanimously Approves Markup for Full Committee Consideration WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, chaired an open hearing on the markup of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. The subcommittee unanimously approved the markup and will now be considered by the full Senate Armed Services Committee on Wednesday. “The Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel is responsible for 50% of the defense budget and is responsible for personnel policies, military personnel compensation and benefits, and military health care. The FY2019 NDAA includes improvements to those areas, including the largest pay raise for servicemembers in 9 years, child abuse and domestic violence prevention measures, and opioid abuse prevention programs,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Ranking Member Gillibrand for her work and commitment to bipartisanship in this year’s markup, and I applaud the subcommittee for coming together on behalf of servicemembers and their families.” Key aspects of the subcommittee markup are: Authorizes a 2.6 percent pay raise for members of the uniformed services. Authorizes targeted increases in military end strength. Introduces the most comprehensive reform of the Defense Officer Personnel Management Act since its inception in 1980, which includes key provisions to better align officer management with the objectives included in the National Defense Strategy. Clarifies authorities of the Director, Defense Health Agency, to manage military medical treatment facilities with a focus on total force readiness and operational medical force readiness. Requires a new organizational framework of the military health system to provide better support to combatant commanders. Requires a 3-year pilot program to minimize early opioid exposure and to prevent opioid misuse/abuse. Requires the TRICARE pharmacy program to share information with state prescription drug monitoring programs. Authorizes $40 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities. Establishes policies and procedures on sexual harassment in Department of Defense Education Activity schools. Authorizes a pilot program on prevention of child abuse and training on safe childcare practices among military families. Establishes multidisciplinary teams for military installations on child abuse and domestic violence. Establishes a new punitive article in the Uniform Code of Military Justice prohibiting domestic violence. Authorizes provisional or interim security clearances for DOD childcare workers. Expands authority for non-competitive appointments of military spouses by federal agencies. ###
05.21.2018	Creation of Opportunity Zones Was A Part of Tax Reform Legislation WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis applauded the United States Treasury for certifying 252 “Opportunity Zones” in all 100 North Carolina counties. Included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law last year, “Opportunity Zones” provide a chance for U.S. investors to use a temporary capital gains referral in exchange for investing the capital in these communities. This will create new channels for investment that will grow jobs, inspire entrepreneurship, and improve the local economy for future generations. “In the period after the Great Recession, we saw that millions of Americans were left behind in the recovery due to job growth and economic opportunities being concentrated in select areas of the country,” said Senator Tillis. “There is nowhere more evident than North Carolina, as the rural and urban divide continues to grow and millions of North Carolinians are left behind. The creation of these Opportunity Zones in the tax reform legislation passed last year will incentivize critical investments in these communities in North Carolina and across the country so all Americans have economic opportunities no matter their location.” In April, North Carolina recommended all of these areas for federal consideration and with last Friday’s decision, U.S. Treasury officially declared these low-income census tracts can participate in the investment program. Low-income census tracks are areas where the poverty rate is 20 percent or greater and/or family income is less than 80% of the area’s median income. The 252 “Opportunity Zones” feature: A total population of more than 1.1 million North Carolinians Nearly 45,000 families with children in poverty Over 50,000 business establishments ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after President Trump nominated Robert Wilkie, a former senior advisor to Senator Tillis, as Secretary of the VA: “I’m proud to call Robert Wilkie my friend and former senior adviser. Robert is one of the most honorable and decent human beings I’ve ever worked with, and anyone who knows him has seen his drive to serve his country and his passion for honoring our nation’s veterans and servicemembers, qualities that will be tremendous assets at the VA. “Through his many years of distinguished service as a leader in both the executive and legislative branches, Robert has earned the respect of the Republicans and Democrats alike on Capitol Hill. “As my senior adviser, Robert was instrumental in advising me on veterans' issues and the legislative priorities of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. Robert holds pragmatic and commonsense views on modernizing the agency and upholding its core mission of providing veterans with the best health care, resources, and support possible. He understands that while the VA Choice Program was born out of necessity, nothing beats the value of a veteran receiving world-class care from highly qualified medical professionals at the VA. “Robert will be a great VA Secretary, and I look forward to getting him confirmed.” Background on Robert Wilkie:Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, is the current Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, confirmed unanimously by the Senate in November 2017. Wilkie served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since Tillis took office in 2015 until late 2017, advising him on national security, military, and veterans affairs issues. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Angus King (I-ME) unanimously passed the Senate. The VA Senior Executive Accountability (SEA) Act of 2018 would strengthen accountability of senior executives at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). There are numerous instances within the VA where Senior Executive Service (SES) employees used their leadership positions as leverage to be reassigned to another position for their own personal gain, or were reassigned, rather than disciplined, for poor performance. Following exposure of this practice, the VA halted their Appraised Value Offer (AVO) program, a program used to move senior executives that was often costly to taxpayers. Despite its past scandals, the VA has recently reinstated the AVO program. The VA Senior Executive Accountability Act will improve transparency by requiring the VA to inform Congress about where senior executives are being moved. Further, this legislation would require the secretary to personally approve of a reassignment of the VA’s approximately 350 SES employees and submit a semiannual report to Congress detailing the reason as to why the employees were reassigned and the associated costs. “Senior VA executives should not be using their positions for personal gain nor should the VA be using reassignments in place of disciplinary action or firing senior executives who have acted improperly,” said Senator Tillis. “The VA Senior Executive Accountability Act is a bipartisan effort to address these problems by improving transparency and accountability within the VA and ensuring our veterans are being provided the best people to give them the care they need and deserve.” “VA executives are tasked with a sacred responsibility: caring for the veterans who have sacrificed so much for our nation,” said Senator King. “Our bipartisan bill will boost transparency and ensure accountability at the VA’s highest levels, and seeks to improve the overall quality of care that the VA provides to America’s veterans.” Companion legislation, H.R. 2772, was originally introduced by Congressman Scott Taylor (R-VA-02) and unanimously passed the House of Representatives on July 28, 2017. The Senate passed H.R. 2772 with an amendment by Senators Tillis and King, and will now head back to the House of Representatives to be voted on with the amendment. ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) once again spoke on the Senate floor to call for the Turkish government to release Pastor Andrew Brunson, who has been wrongfully imprisoned since October 7, 2016. Click HERE to watch the speech. Click HERE to download the speech. Senator Tillis, co-chair of the Human Rights Caucus, also spoke at an event about the human rights and religious freedom crisis in Turkey. Click HERE to watch the speech. Click HERE to download the speech. Last month, Pastor Brunson was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. Senator Tillis has visited Pastor Brunson in Turkey twice, including attending his trial on April 16th. Tillis recently led a bipartisan letter signed by 66 Senators to President Erdogan calling for his release and introduced bipartisan legislation with Senators James Lankford (R-OK) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) to prevent the transfer of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft to Turkey. ###
05.15.2018	Six Officers from North Carolina were added to the Memorial this year WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) honored the 360 officers who were added to the National Peace Officers Memorial, including six from North Carolina. The officers from North Carolina added to the memorial were: Zach C Ramsey, Cherokee County, North Carolina, S.O. Deputy Sheriff Zack Ramsey died in the line of duty on October 2, 1942 at the age of 54. Ramsey served in law enforcement for 8 years. Jay Russell Memmelaar JR., Goldsboro, North Carolina, P.D. (September 25, 1967-February 16, 2017) Goldsboro Police Major Jay Memmelaar died at 49 years-old. He was a 25-year veteran of the Goldsboro Police Department and was head of the Police Department's Support Services Division. He is survived by his wife and two children. Meggan Lee Callahan, North Carolina Dept. of Public Safety-Division of Prisons (May 23, 1987-April 26, 2017) Meggan Lee Callahan died at 29 years-old. She was a Sergeant with the North Carolina Department of Public Safety, Division of Prisons and had worked with the Department of Corrections since 2012. Sgt. Callahan is survived by her parents, two sisters, and her nephew. She is also survived by her fiancé. Justin James Smith, North Carolina Dept. of Public Safety-Division of Prisons (July 4, 1982-October 12, 2017) Correctional Officer Justin Smith of Elizabeth City died at the age of 35. Justin worked as a correctional officer since 2012 at the Pasquotank Correctional Institution. He is survived by his mother, siblings, and two nephews. Veronica Skinner Darden, North Carolina Dept. of Public Safety-Division of Prisons (December 8, 1966-October 12, 2017) Correctional Officer Veronica Skinner Darden, known as “Ronnie” to her friends and family of Belvidere died at the age of 50. She worked as a Correctional Enterprises manager at Pasquotank Correctional Institution for 10 years. She is survived by her husband and two daughters. Wendy Letitia Shannon, North Carolina Dept. of Public Safety-Division of Prisons (February 18, 1968- October 30, 2017) Officer Wendy Shannon, of Hertford, NC died at the age of 49. Shannon served as a correctional officer at the Pasquotank Correctional Institute for 4 years. Prior to her service in corrections, Shannon served as a Staff Sergeant in the United States Army and spent time in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Korea, and Iraq. SSG Shannon received numerous awards for her service to our country which include: Meritorious Service Medal, Army Commendation Medal, three Army Achievement Medals, six Army Good Conduct Medals, two National Defense Service Medals, Southwest Asia Service Medal with a Bronze Service Star, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal and Korea Defense Service Medal. She is survived by two daughters, son, and fiancé. “My deepest condolences go out to the families of the men and women who were added to the National Peace Officers Memorial,” said Senator Tillis. “Law Enforcement officials make tremendous sacrifices each and every day to protect and serve the public. This calling requires them to always put the safety of others ahead of their own well-being, with no guarantee they’ll return home to their families when their shift ends. We will never forget the service and sacrifice of these fallen heroes, and as long as I am a U.S. Senator, I will work to ensure they have the tools, resources and support to do their jobs effectively and stay as safe as possible.” In 1962, President Kennedy proclaimed May 15th as National Peace Officers Memorial Day and the calendar week in which May 15th falls, as National Police Week. Established by a joint resolution of Congress in 1962, National Police Week pays special recognition to those law enforcement officers who have lost their lives in the line of duty. This year, National Police Week will run from Sunday, May 13th through Saturday, May 19th.Today, the names of 360 officers will be added to the Memorial, including 129 who made the ultimate sacrifice during 2017, in addition to 231 officers who died earlier in history but whose sacrifice had not been previously documented. With these additions, there are 21,541 officers’ names engraved on the Memorial, representing all 50 states, the District of Columbia, U.S. territories, federal law enforcement, and military police agencies. On average, one law enforcement officer is killed in the line of duty somewhere in the United States every 58 hours. ###
05.11.2018	“We stand ready to break through the confirmation backlog and get the government funded before we break in August” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), David Perdue (R-GA) and 14 other senators asked Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to expedite floor consideration on funding bills and President Trump’s nominees, even if the Senate must work nights, weekends, and through the August state work period to make substantial progress before the end of the fiscal year, September 30. “We stand ready to break through the confirmation backlog and get the government funded before we break in August, well before the September 30 deadline,” said the senators. “We stand ready to work Mondays and Fridays, nights as well as weekends, to ensure the funding process is not used to jam the President with a bad spending deal. We, and the American people, expect Congress to work tirelessly to restore American greatness. The President has outlined an agenda that will unleash economic growth, strengthen our military, and rebuild our infrastructure. We play a critical role in advancing this agenda, so together let’s make Congress work again.” Joining Senators Tillis and Perdue on the letter were Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Dean Heller (R-NV), Ron Johnson (R-WI), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell on Thursday, May 10, 2018. View the full text of the letter here. ###
05.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr released the following statement following the confirmation of Gregory Allyn Forest to be the United States Marshal for the Western District of North Carolina: “I applaud the confirmation of Greg Forest to be the Western District Marshal in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “Mr. Forest has extensive law enforcement experience in Western North Carolina, including previously serving in the same role under President George W. Bush, and I look forward to him serving North Carolinians once again.” “I’m pleased to see the Senate’s unanimous confirmation of such a well-qualified individual in Mr. Forest,” said Senator Burr. “His nearly three decades of law enforcement experience will undoubtedly benefit him as he serves and protects the people of Western North Carolina.” Background Information Mr. Forest is currently the Deputy Director of International Trade Compliance for IOMAX, USA in Mooresville, North Carolina. Upon earning his Criminal Justice degree from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Greg served in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department until 1995. He then worked for the U.S. Probation Office in the Western District of North Carolina, eventually becoming a Senior Officer and Drug and Alcohol Treatment Specialist. He was appointed in 2002 by President George W. Bush to serve as North Carolina’s Western District U.S. Marshal, serving for two years before returning to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial office. He was N.C.’s Western District Chief Probation Officer until his retirement three years ago. ###
05.11.2018	Senators Introduce Resolution to Commemorate Military Spouse Appreciation Day WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jon Tester (D-MT) introduced bipartisan legislation commemorating Friday, May 11, 2018, as Military Spouse Appreciation Day to honor the dedication, patriotism, and sacrifice of military spouses who support the men and women in the Armed Forces. “Military spouses make vast personal and professional sacrifices in support of their families and our nation that too often go unnoticed,” said Senator Tillis, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel. “On Military Spouse Appreciation Day and every day, we owe them a debt of gratitude for their role in the lives of our men and women in uniform.” “For as long as men and women have served our nation in uniform, military spouses and families have courageously stood alongside them,” said Senator Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Their love, support and patriotism keep our nation strong and ensures our troops have the support they need to keep this nation safe. They are a firm foundation when their loved ones deploy, move between military bases, and transition back to civilian life.” The senators’ resolution can be read in full online HERE and below: Designating May 11, 2018, as ‘Military Spouse Appreciation Day’. Whereas the month of May marks ‘National Military Appreciation Month’; Whereas the Senate recognizes military spouses’ dedication of a lifetime of love, support and patriotism that helps make the service and sacrifice of the men and women in the Armed Forces possible; Whereas military spouses have been separated from loved ones because of the duty of our Armed Forces to protect our nation and its interests through deployment in support of overseas contingency operations and other military missions; Whereas the establishment of ‘Military Spouse Appreciation Day’ honors the dedication and contributions of spouses of members of the Armed Forces; and Whereas May 11, 2018, would be an appropriate date to establish as ‘Military Spouse Appreciation Day’: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate-- (1) designates May 11, 2018, as ‘Military Spouse Appreciation Day’: (2) honors and recognizes the dedication and contributions made by spouses of members of the Armed Forces; and (3) encourages the people of the United States to observe `Military Spouse Appreciation Day' to promote awareness of the dedication and contributions of spouses of members of the Armed Forces and the importance of the role of military spouses in the lives of members of the Armed Forces and veterans. ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) led a letter to Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, Secretary Wilbur Ross, and Secretary Rick Perry urging them to exclude 72 cell, 1500 volt utility-scale solar panels, a large source of U.S. jobs and investment in our domestic solar industry, from the tariffs recently imposed on solar products. North Carolina has the second largest solar footprint of any state in the nation and has over 7,622 solar jobs in the state. Efforts to diversify America’s electrical grid have continued to cut utility rates for consumers, create high-paying jobs, and increase America’s overall economic competitiveness. These benefits are strongly linked to the use of 72 cell, 1500 volt panels and have motivated states across the country to differentiate energy production sources. The tariff would lead to a considerable cost increase for these panels – diminishing job growth opportunities, solar market viability, and overall advancement of our energy infrastructure. “Based on the exclusion request criteria set forth in the Federal Register notice published on February 14, 2018 (83 FR 6670), we respectfully request that the Administration consider excluding certain utility-scale products. We specifically urge you to exclude 72 cell, 1500 volt utility-scale solar panels from this safeguard measure. Solar manufacturing jobs have surged 58% in the last five years, and the growth rate in over 50 factories throughout the Midwest and South has become increasingly affiliated with the deployment of these 72 cell, 1500 volt panels that have never been manufactured in the United States,” the senators wrote. “The exclusion of 72-cell, 1500 volt solar panels from the safeguard measure will preserve tens of thousands of existing solar manufacturing and development jobs, foster market expansion, and allow the U.S. to once again fairly compete in the global marketplace for energy production technologies. Sensible product exclusions will uphold the integrity of the safeguard measures intended to facilitate positive adjustment to competition from imports of certain crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells,” the senators continued. The letter is also signed by Senators Dean Heller (R-NV), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Richard Burr (R-NC), Pat Roberts (R-KS), and Tim Scott (R-SC). Read the full letter here. ###
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to speak on Pastor Andrew Brunson, who has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. On Monday, Pastor Brunson’s second trial hearing in Turkey resulted in a postponement, with the next hearing to be held on July 18. Last month, Pastor Brunson was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. Senator Tillis has visited Pastor Brunson in Turkey twice, including attending his trial on April 16th. Tillis recently led a bipartisan letter signed by 66 Senators to President Erdogan calling for his release and introduced bipartisan legislation with Senators James Lankford (R-OK) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) to prevent the transfer of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft to Turkey. Click HERE to watch the speech. Click HERE to download the speech. Tillis on the U.S. – Turkey Relationship:“I'd like to be talking about how we help Turkey take the fight to the terrorist organizations that are threatening their homeland. I'd like to work more with Turkey to identify ISIS leaders, detain them, and make that region safer. I'd like to be in the Senate Armed Services Committee fighting for additional NDAA provisions that underscore our commitment to Turkey, but now I am at a fork in the road.“Right now I've only got one position to take. That is to put Turkey on notice for their bad actions as a NATO ally and for their bad actions towards American nationals in the country of Turkey. When we do our markup on the NDAA, instead of talking about how we strengthen our relationship with their part in manufacturing the joint strike fighter and the timeline to have the joint strike fighter within their military bases, now I've got to start talking about whether or not they should have it at all.“I've got to start talking about what the future of our relationship is with a nation that is, for the first time in NATO history, holding American hostages as a NATO ally. I've got to take things in a different direction because it's my responsibility as the Co-Chair of the Senate NATO Observer Group and as the Senator from a state who has a citizen in prison for 580 days. I have no choice.” Tillis on Brunson’s support in the U.S. Senate:“Until this man is released along with the others who have been falsely charged are treated fairly, I am going to come to the Senate floor each and every week we're in session to make sure that the American people know what's going on in Turkey and make absolutely certain that the people like Pastor Brunson in prison know that they have people in the U.S. Senate -- in fact, 66 members -- who have signed a letter to send a very clear message that we're watching and there will be consequences if this man is wrongfully imprisoned and could potentially spend the rest of his life in Turkey.” Tillis on visiting Pastor Brunson:“I went to Turkey about six weeks ago to visit Pastor Brunson in prison because I heard that after being in prison for a year and a half, much of that time in a cell designed for eight people and had 21 people in it, he was indicted. I heard that he was afraid that the American people were going to read that 62-page bogus indictment, with some of the flimsiest charges that you can imagine, and turn their back on him. It was important for me to travel over there and tell him face-to-face in that Turkish prison that's the last thing that's going to happen. We're going to continue to work every day that he's in prison to get him home.” ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s intention to withdraw the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran: “The Obama administration negotiated with the Iranian regime under the terribly misguided operating principle that any deal—even a bad deal—was better than no deal. The end result was a bad deal that offered concession after concession to the mullahs and failed to cut off Iran’s path to nuclear weapons. It was not surprising that the agreement was met with strong bipartisan opposition from Congress, and the subsequent geopolitical fallout cannot be understated. When I visited the Middle East in 2016 to meet with foreign leaders, they all expressed fears that the deal would fail to halt Iran’s march toward nuclearization and empower the regime by lifting economic sanctions. Their fears have been realized, as Iran is now more emboldened than ever, sowing chaos and promoting their terror network across the region. “The President’s decision today provides a new opportunity for America to alleviate the concerns of our allies in the Middle East by ending the experiment of appeasement and holding Iran accountable for its belligerence. The President is also reimposing sanctions, which were effective in weakening the Iranian regime and bringing them to the negotiating table in the first place. The Iranian regime’s threat to peace and stability is real: we cannot repeat the mistakes and miscalculations of the past.” ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke with Julie Banderas on Fox News about Pastor Andrew Brunson, who has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish government since October 7, 2016. Yesterday, Pastor Brunson’s second trial hearing in Turkey resulted in a postponement, with the next hearing to be held on July 18.Click HERE to watch the interview. Senator Tillis on “secret witnesses” testifying against Pastor Brunson:“I saw a lot of testimony from secret witnesses when I was in Turkey for Pastor Brunson’s first trial about a month ago. The allegations against him are absurd, and even more absurd is Pastor Brunson requesting 10 witnesses to testify in his defense and being denied. That is the nature of this kangaroo court we are witnessing in Turkey.” Senator Tillis on U.S-Turkish Relations:“Turkey is a NATO ally, we have an Air Force base there and we have a very close relationship with them when it comes to manufacturing the Joint-Strike Fighter Program, but we have to rethink our relationship with Turkey if this is how they are going to treat American citizens. It is unheard of for NATO allies to treat people this way. Our goal is to continue to increase the pressure on Turkey and free Pastor Brunson, who has been in prison for over 578 days with the vast majority of those without charges. We also need to be mindful of other American citizens who have been sentenced or are awaiting trial. This has to stop or we have to rethink our relationship with Turkey.” Senator Tillis on the path forward:“We tried to show respect to the Turkish Government and met with the Ambassador and Foreign Minister, but now we have to show we are prepared to act in terms of sanctions and changing the nature of our relationship. We have to look at all of our ties with Turkey and question whether that is the best partner on national defense and economic ties.” ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis released the following statement regarding the administration’s Major Disaster Declaration for the State of North Carolina: “I’m pleased to see President Trump grant North Carolina this critical declaration to help our citizens recover from the recent tornadoes in Guilford and Rockingham County,” said Senator Burr. “This assistance will help families get back on their feet and make their communities whole again.” “Last month’s tornadoes affected hundreds of residents in Guilford and Rockingham County, and caused damage to homes, businesses, and local schools,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank President Trump for approving the disaster declaration so North Carolinians can receive federal assistance as they recover.” Important Information: Individuals in Guilford and Rockingham Counties can register with FEMA and apply online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Constituents may also call the registration phone number at 1-800-621-3362; those who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should call 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. Background Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, and Representatives G.K. Butterfield, George Holding, Walter Jones, David Price, Virginia Foxx, Mark Walker, David Rouzer, Richard Hudson, Robert Pittenger, Patrick McHenry, Mark Meadows, Alma Adams, and Ted Budd wrote to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long to support North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s request that the President declare a major disaster for the State of North Carolina, under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act, as a result of severe weather that effected Guilford and Rockingham counties on April 15, 2018. The full letter can be found here. ###
05.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after Pastor Andrew Brunson’s second trial hearing in Turkey resulted in a postponement, with the next hearing to be held on July 18. During the hearing today, two new unknown, secret witnesses testified against Brunson while the 3-judge panel rejected Brunson’s request for several witnesses to testify on his behalf at the next hearing. Brunson continues to reject every charge levied against him. “America will not stop fighting for Pastor Brunson’s release, and we will continue to send him our prayers. Today’s decision prolongs the Turkish government’s unjust 577-day detention of Pastor Brunson, and it’s disturbing that his request to have witnesses speak on his behalf at the next hearing was denied, showing once again this is a kangaroo court. “This entire ordeal has been a nightmare for Pastor Brunson’s family and is incomprehensible considering the longstanding strategic partnership between the United States and Turkey. That partnership is now severely strained in-part because of the Turkish government’s persecution of law-abiding American citizens.” Senator Tillis has visited Pastor Brunson in Turkey twice, including attending his first trial hearing on April 16. Senator Tillis recently spoke on the Senate floor about Brunson’s wrongful imprisonment, detailing the bogus nature of the accusations made against him. Senators Tillis and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) recently led a bipartisan letter signed by 66 Senators to President Erdogan calling for Brunson’s release and introduced legislation with Senator James Lankford (R-OK) to prevent the transfer of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft to Turkey. ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, and Representatives G.K. Butterfield, George Holding, Walter Jones, David Price, Virginia Foxx, Mark Walker, David Rouzer, Richard Hudson, Robert Pittenger, Patrick McHenry, Mark Meadows, Alma Adams, and Ted Budd wrote to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Brock Long to support North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper’s request that the President declare a major disaster for the State of North Carolina, under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act, as a result of severe weather that effected Guilford and Rockingham counties on April 15, 2018. In part, the letter reads: “Since the storms, state, county, and FEMA officials have undertaken preliminary damage assessments (PDA) for Individual Assistance (IA). The findings underscore the devastation that was brought upon these communities by the EF2 tornado. In Guilford County, the PDA found that 36 homes or businesses were destroyed, 180 homes suffered major damage, 289 homes incurred minor damage, and 316 properties were affected Further, three elementary schools in Guilford County will remain closed for the remainder of the school year due to damage inflicted on the buildings. In Rockingham County, the PDA found five homes or businesses destroyed, seven with major damages, 21 with minor damages, and 19 properties affected.” “…To that end, we urge the President to approve this request for a major disaster declaration, consistent with the intended purposes of FEMA and the federal Stafford Act, in order to provide Individual Assistance as soon as possible to assist the citizens of these two counties. “ The full letter can be found here. ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis released the following statement regarding the confirmation of Steven L. Gladden to be the United States Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina: “I’m pleased to see the Senate confirm Steven Gladden to be North Carolina’s Middle District U.S. Marshal,” said Senator Burr. “Central North Carolina will be lucky to have someone with Steve’s extensive background in the U.S. Marshals Service at the helm, and I look forward to working with him in the years to come.” “I applaud the Senate for confirming Steven Gladden to be the U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “Steven brings an incredible wealth of experience from his years in the U.S. Marshals Service, and he will serve the people of North Carolina well.” Background Information Hailing from Mount Gilead, North Carolina, Mr. Gladden last served in the U.S. Department of Treasury as the Intermittent Economic Crimes Advisor in the Office of Technical Assistance. Previously, he served in the U.S. Marshals Service for 26 years, part of which as the Assistant Chief Inspector of the Asset Forfeiture Division. Mr. Gladden graduated from the Carolina School of Broadcasting. ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to approve the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act: “I’m grateful for Chairman Grassley’s leadership in brokering a compromise that resulted in the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act advancing through the Senate Judiciary Committee with strong bipartisan support. “While I do not believe President Trump intends to remove Special Counsel Mueller, I believe this legislation has enduring value for future special counsel investigations. It will help ensure that special counsels have the independence they need to conduct fair and impartial investigations with appropriate reporting to Congress, which in turn will reaffirm the American people’s confidence in our nation’s rule of law. “I’ve repeatedly said that it is the responsibility of the supporters of this legislation to build the support it needs for consideration on the floor of the Senate, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to build that support.” ###
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to speak on North Carolina native Andrew Brunson, who has been wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish Government since October 7, 2016. Last month, Pastor Brunson was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. Senator Tillis has visited Pastor Brunson in Turkey twice, including attending his trial on April 16th. Tillis recently led a bipartisan letter signed by 66 Senators to President Erdogan calling for his release. Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ speech. Click HERE to download Senator Tillis’ speech. Tillis on Pastor Brunson:“Pastor Andrew Brunson has been in a Turkish prison for 565 days. He was arrested in October of 2016 but didn't even receive charges until two months ago. I heard from some people that Pastor Brunson was afraid with the charges levied against him, that the American people would read the charges and forget about him and turn their back. That's why I decided to travel to Turkey and meet him in prison about a month ago to let him know that I have no intention of forgetting him, and have every intention of letting Americans know what is going on with his case.”Tillis on Brunson’s senseless imprisonment:“During the coup that occurred in 2016, Pastor Brunson and his wife Norine were in the United States visiting family. The president of Turkey was rounding up thousands of people and putting them in prison, even those who were loosely associated with the coup. Pastor Brunson and his wife traveled back to Turkey at a time when people were rounded up and when they got back they rounded him up too. Why would any reasonable person who saw what was happening in Turkey go back if they were guilty?” Tillis on his letter to President Erdogan:“I told Pastor Brunson that the reason I was there was to tell him eye to eye that Congress has his back and this will not go away until the Turkish government releases Pastor Brunson. I told him in that meeting that I would get members of the Senate to sign on to a letter and prove to him that we agree on a bipartisan basis that Pastor Brunson should be set free. Members knew when they heard the argument they knew they needed to be a voice of the Senate. I wanted to send a very clear message to President Erdogan we are educating members about Pastor Brunson’s situation.” ###
04.26.2018	Bill Comes As Turkish President Erdogan Continues To Imprison Pastor Andrew Brunson WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), James Lankford (R-OK) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) introduced a bill to prevent the transfer of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft to Turkey. The bill would also block Turkey’s role as a maintenance depot for the aircraft. Under the US-led, multinational Joint Strike Fighter program, Turkey was expected to purchase more than 100 aircraft. “America is not going to forget about Andrew Brunson and the other Americans who are being wrongfully imprisoned by the Turkish government,” said Tillis. “Turkey has long been a vital NATO ally and America understands the unique national security threats it faces; however, denying the rights of law-abiding Americans undermines the relationship between our two countries. The Erdogan government should understand that Congress will pursue measures to protect the interests of American citizens, including stopping the transfer of F-35 aircraft to Turkey.” “Senators Shaheen and Tillis have worked diligently with me and others in Congress to address America’s rapidly deteriorating relationship with Turkey,” said Lankford. “I applaud our State Department for their ceaseless work to improve the US-Turkey relationship, but President Erdogan has continued down a path of reckless governance and disregard for the rule of law. Individual freedoms have been increasingly diminished as Erdogan consolidates power for himself, and Turkey’s strategic decisions regrettably fall more and more out of line with, and at times in contrast to, US interests. These factors make the transfer of sensitive F-35 technology and cutting-edge capabilities to Erdogan’s regime increasingly risky. Furthermore, the Turkish government continues to move closer and closer to Russia, as they hold an innocent American pastor, Andrew Brunson, in prison to use him as a pawn in political negotiations. The United States does not reward hostage-taking of American citizens; such action instead will be met with the kind of punitive measures this bill would enact.” “Given my steadfast commitment to NATO and the transatlantic alliance, it is with regret that our relationship with Turkey has reached a point where we must consider severing defense and business ties in order to free American hostages held in Turkey,” said Shaheen. “Turkish President Erdogan’s choice to take hostages and imprison innocent Americans, to try to gain leverage over the United States, is egregious and unlawful. Erdogan and his government must abide by the rule of law within his own country and abroad, and release Pastor Andrew Brunson and other Americans unlawfully held in Turkey. There must also be an immediate end to the harassment and detainment of locally-employed staff at the U.S. mission. Until that occurs, I’ll continue to join with Senators Lankford and Tillis to call for punitive action, including blocking the transfer of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.” Tillis has visited Pastor Brunson in Turkey twice, including attending his trial on April 16th. Tillis & Shaheen recently led a bipartisan letter signed by 66 Senators to President Erdogan calling for his release. On April 19, Lankford and Shaheen announced their decision to pursue targeted sanctions against Turkish officials in this year’s Fiscal Year 2019 State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs spending bill. ###
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV) introduced bipartisan legislation that would expand the number of Americans who are allowed to invest in our nation’s small businesses by allowing individuals who have relevant education, professional expertise, and other credentials to invest in private offerings. Under current law, an individual must be deemed an “accredited investor” to invest in a private offering of securities, but under the Securities Act of 1933, an “accredited investor” is defined by an individual who earns more than $200,000 per year or has a net worth of $1 million. As a result, the stringent requirements do not allow individuals who might have the professional expertise the opportunity to invest in companies because of their economic standing. This critical legislation allows people who have subject matter expertise, regardless of how much money they make or how much money they have in their bank account, to invest in our nation’s small businesses. The Fair Investment Opportunities for Professional Experts Act would amend the definition of “accredited investor” to include individuals who have currently have a securities-related license or an individual who the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) determines has demonstrable education or job experience to qualify as having the requisite subject-matter knowledge to participate in a private offering of securities. “The majority of new jobs are generated by companies less than five years old, and we must reduce the bureaucratic red-tape and allow these companies to receive financing by people with the appropriate expertise,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation will expand the universe of people who can invest start-up companies and the like, to people who have subject-matter expertise and not just wealth, and will allow small and emerging companies to continue to grow and produce jobs.” “This legislation helps companies grow by expanding the investor base eligible to buy shares in their firm,” said Cortez Masto. “At the same time, the bill modernizes SEC guardrails that haven’t been updated in more than 30 years in order to better protect investors.” Background:Under current law, companies are required to register with the SEC prior to raising funds through public and private offerings. The Securities Act of 1933 contains certain exemptions from registration and authorizes the SEC to provide additional exemptions. Regulation D, which the SEC promulgated to provide such exemptions, is based on the Securities Act provision stating that the obligation to register with the government does not apply to any transaction by an issuer not involving a public offering. The Supreme Court has previously ruled that an offering would be considered private and not public when “the particular class of persons affected needs the protection” of securities laws and should be utilized only by persons who can “fend for themselves.” To further define individuals who can “fend for themselves,” the SEC adopted the term “accredited investor.” Under the SEC’s standards, an investor’s financial status is a proxy for his ability to fend for himself. As it currently stands, a natural person is an accredited investor if that person (1) earned income that exceeded $200,000 (or $300,000 together with a spouse) in each of the prior two years, and reasonably expects the same for the current year, or (2) has a net worth over $1 million, either alone or together with a spouse (excluding the value of the person’s primary residence). In 2015, the SEC’s Investor Advisor Committee (Committee) recommended changes to the definition of accredited investor to allow additional investors to participate in private offerings even if they do not satisfy the net worth test, so long as they have the appropriate risk appetite and ability to understand the private offering. The Committee suggested that individuals could be accredited investors if they had adequate financial sophistication, education or professional credentials, or expertise as demonstrated by the successful completion of an exam demonstrating their investment knowledge. S. 2756, the Fair Investment Opportunities for Professional Experts Act, expands the definition of an accredited investor to include persons who meet certain financial education and professional expertise standards. The House passed similar legislation, H.R. 1585, by a vote of 58-2 in the House Committee on Financial Services, and by a voice vote out of the full House. ###
04.20.2018	Senators warn “measures may be necessary” to ensure that the Government of Turkey respects the right of law-abiding American citizens to travel to, reside in, and work in Turkey without fear of persecution. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, a bipartisan group of 66 senators, led by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), sent a letter to the President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, demanding the release of wrongfully imprisoned American Pastor Andrew Brunson. Pastor Brunson has been imprisoned in Turkey since October 7, 2016. Last month, he was indicted on bogus charges related to terrorism and espionage, and faces up to 35 years in prison. In the letter to President Erdogan, the Senators noted that the indictment “is an absurd collection of anonymous accusations, flights of fantasy, and random character assassination…It is an insult not only to an unjustly imprisoned individual, but to the traditions of Turkish jurisprudence.” The senators also warned that measures may be necessary “to ensure that the Government of Turkey respects the right of law-abiding citizens and employees of the United States to travel to, reside in, and work in Turkey without fear of persecution.” Pastor Brunson’s trial began on April 16 in Izmir, Turkey, and was attended by Senator Tillis and Sam Brownback, the U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom. The Turkish Court postponed the next hearing until May 7, ordering Pastor Brunson to remain in prison. In addition to Senators Tillis and Shaheen, the letter was signed by Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Cory Booker (D-NJ), John Boozman (R-AR), Richard Burr (R-NC), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Carper (D-DE), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Chris Coons (D-DE), John Cornyn (R-TX), Bob Corker (R-TN), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Dean Heller (R-NV), John Hoeven (R-ND), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-MS), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Doug Jones (D-AL), Tim Kaine (D-VA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), James Lankford (R-OK), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Bill Nelson (D-FL), David Perdue (R-GA), Rob Portman (R-OH), Jim Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Tina Smith (D-MN), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Jon Tester (D-MT), John Thune (R-ND), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mark Warner (D-VA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and Todd Young (R-IN). The full text of the letter is below, which can also be viewed here. April 20, 2018 Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan President The Republic of Turkey Mr. President, It has now been over a year and a half since Turkish authorities detained Pastor Andrew Brunson, a law-abiding American citizen resident in Turkey since 1993, for alleged involvement in terrorism. Pastor Brunson’s detention and formal arrest followed the Turkish government’s imposition of a State of Emergency after a violent coup attempt in July 2016 rightly opposed by Turks across the political spectrum. The United States has condemned the coup and respects the legitimate efforts of the Turkish government to ensure its perpetrators face justice and the Turkish nation is protected from any repetition of the coup attempt. The Senate supports the ongoing efforts to strengthen law enforcement cooperation between U.S. agencies and their Turkish counterparts, including with regard to investigating alleged participants in the coup plot. However, we are deeply disturbed that the Turkish government has gone beyond legitimate action against the coup plotters to undermine Turkey’s own rule of law and democratic traditions. Under the State of Emergency, tens of thousands of Turkey’s own citizens as well as some citizens of the United States and other countries have been arrested, dismissed from employment or otherwise seen their lives destroyed on vague charges and dubious evidence. These actions by the government of Turkey are inconsistent with the commitment to law and justice that have historically been hallmarks of Turkish democracy. That the Turkish government has consistently ignored bipartisan expressions of concern from the Congress has also been cause for concern. Nonetheless, we chose to respect the working of the Turkish judicial system and await a just outcome. On March 13th, 2018 Turkish authorities issued an indictment alleging and purportedly detailing Pastor Brunson’s offenses. It is an absurd collection of anonymous accusations, flights of fantasy, and random character assassination. It is an insult not only to an unjustly imprisoned individual, but to the traditions of Turkish jurisprudence. That a Turkish court could accept such a document as the basis for prosecution removes any shred of doubt that Andrew Brunson, like other American citizens as well as Turkish employees of the U.S. Government detained under the State of Emergency, is being used as a political pawn by elements of the Turkish government bent on destroying the longstanding partnership between two great nations. Moreover, the suggestion in the indictment that the actions of Pastor Brunson to explain his religious convictions to others was somehow meant to undermine the Turkish state brings a new and deeply disturbing dimension to the case. It should trouble all Turks justly proud of Turkey’s centuries-old tradition of welcoming believers of all faiths. The United States Government, and millions of Americans deeply concerned by the Brunson case, have been patient, in the hope that justice would be done and Pastor Brunson would be reunited with his family. The signatories of this letter have concluded that other measures will be necessary to ensure that the Government of Turkey respects the right of law-abiding citizens and employees of the United States to travel to, reside in, and work in Turkey without fear of persecution. Sincerely, ###
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, announced that he secured $53 million to fund three North Carolina State Veterans Home construction projects through the VA State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program. Last year, Senator Tillis led an appropriations letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Committee on Appropriations to urge them to provide robust funding for the VA State Home Construction Grant Program. The $53 million will go toward the following projects: Salisbury, NC VA Home - $2.6 million for renovations to the day room, patio, main entrance, HVAC, electrical, flooring, walls, lighting, nurse stations and dining Wake County - $25.2 million for a new 120 bed facility Guilford County - $25.2 million for a new 120 bed facility “Over the last 50 years, the State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program has been one of the most successful and cost effective programs serving the long term care needs of our nation’s veterans,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank interim VA Secretary Wilkie and the Department of Veterans Affairs for allocating these important funds that will provide critical resources to ensure our aging veterans have a place to receive the care they need and deserve.” The $53 million allocated ensures all of North Carolina’s projects are fully funded and is part of nearly $700 million that will be used to fund 52 projects throughout the nation. The $700 million is part of an Omnibus Bill that represents the largest allocation to the State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program ever. The program has averaged $94 million over the last five years. The State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program provides up to 65 percent of the cost to build and renovate facilities. ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush: “Susan and I send our condolences to the Bush family. Former First Lady Barbara Bush was an incredible woman who exemplified class and was beloved for her sharp wit, humor and humility. America will greatly miss her.” ###
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Richard Burr, Heidi Heitkamp, and Thom Tillis introduced Senate Resolution 464 recognizing April 26, 2018, as “Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day.” The resolution, marking the 25th Anniversary of the program, encourages parents across the country to bring their children to work to empower and inspire them through the example they set in their professional workplaces: “The key to every child’s bright future is in their education. ‘Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day’ exemplifies the tangible results of a good education, and shows each child what they’re working towards,” said Senator Burr. “I couldn’t be more proud that the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Foundation calls Elizabeth City, North Carolina home. With 40 million kids involved annually, I know this program will only grow and continue to help show each child his or her full potential.” “For decades, the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work program has given thousands of children across the country the valuable opportunity to learn firsthand from their parents about potential jobs and career paths. Not only has the program exposed children to the workforce, but it has reinforced the importance of supporting working parents and creating workplaces that prioritize a fair and respectful work-life balance,” said Senator Heitkamp. “ I’m proud to support this critical program as it works to recognize the hard work of parents and mentors to support their families. And by allowing students to explore a variety of occupations, we are boosting our long-term economic security and underscoring the time-tested value of hard work.” “Bringing children to work can be an invaluable experience that can help shape the child’s work and educational goals,” said Senator Tillis. “The Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Foundation based out of Elizabeth City, North Carolina has developed into a great program that has impacted kids all across the country, and I am proud to co-introduce this legislation with Senators Burr and Heitkamp to recognize the participants of this important initiative.” Text of the Resolution: Whereas the Take Our Daughters To Work program was created in New York City as a response to research that showed that, by the 8th grade, many girls were dropping out of school, had low self-esteem, and lacked confidence; Whereas, in 2003, the name of the program was changed to “Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work” so that boys who face many of the same challenges as girls could also be involved in the program; Whereas, in 2018, the mission of the program, to develop “innovative strategies that empower girls and boys to overcome societal barriers to reach their full potential”, fully reflects the addition of boys; Whereas the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Foundation, a nonprofit organization, has grown to be one of the largest public awareness campaigns, with more than 40,000,000 participants annually in more than 3,500,000 organizations and workplaces representing each State; Whereas, in 2007, the Take Our Daughters To Work program transitioned to Elizabeth City, North Carolina, became known as the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Foundation, and received national recognition for its dedication to future generations; Whereas, every year, mayors, governors, and other private and public officials sign proclamations and lend support to Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day; Whereas the fame of the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work program has spread overseas, with requests and inquiries being made from around the world on how to operate the program; Whereas 2018 marks the 25th anniversary of the Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work program; Whereas Take Our Daughters And Sons to Work Day will be observed on Thursday, April 26, 2018; and Whereas, by offering opportunities for children to experience activities and events, Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day is intended to continue helping millions of girls and boys on an annual basis to examine their opportunities and strive to reach their fullest potential: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) recognizes the goals of introducing our daughters and sons to the workplace; and (2) commends all participants of Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work Day for the— (A) ongoing contributions that the participants make to education; and (B) vital role that the participants play in promoting and ensuring a brighter, stronger future for the United States. ###
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON – This week, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Cornyn (R-TX), Joe Manchin (D-VA), and Kamala Harris (D-CA) introduced the GEAR UP for Success Act, legislation to improve the Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Program (GEAR UP). GEAR UP is a federal grant program that seeks to increase college awareness, readiness, and success for low-income and underrepresented students. North Carolina is currently the recipient of four GEAR UP grants: Appalachian State University $2.7 million per year that covers 9,500 students over 8 school districts in Western North Carolina $1.4 million per year that covers 5,100 students over 3 school districts in Western North Carolina UNC System Schools $4 million per year that covers 22,000 students over 11 school districts in rural North Carolina Fayetteville State University $8.2 million over 7 years “The GEAR Up initiative is important for low-income and underrepresented students to become aware of their college opportunities,” said Senator Tillis. “North Carolina has a large GEAR UP footprint that has a proven record of success, and I hope we can pass this legislation to allow those in need to have the opportunity for higher education.” “GEAR UP has a proven track record of success in inspiring and preparing students for education beyond high school,” said Senator Cornyn. “This legislation reduces costs to free up time and money for grantees to focus on students and gives local leaders more freedom to decide how best to tailor the program for their specific needs.” “Our children are our future. If we are going to continue to compete in a high-tech 21st century economy, we have to make sure that young people have the resources they need to receive a higher education,” said Senator Manchin. “This legislation will strengthen GEAR UP Programs across the country by empowering state and local leadership to design and implement programs that equip students with the tools necessary to succeed in post-secondary education and reduce the administrative burden for GEAR Up grantees. GEAR UP has and will continue to help generations of students establish and achieve their academic goals, grow our economy and keep our country at the cutting edge of innovation.” “Our young people can only enter and succeed in postsecondary education if we provide them with the right tools they need, especially in underserved communities. Through a coalition of community organization and education partnerships, GEAR UP is instrumental to improve high school graduation rates, college enrollment rates, and helps raise awareness of alternative options for students and their families that provide a path to success. This critical program must be reauthorized because our country’s future depends on it,” said Senator Harris. Background on the GEAR UP for Success Act: GEAR UP currently serves more than 635,000 students across the nation and helps empower local partnerships of K-12 schools, institutions of higher education, state agencies, and community organizations to increase post-secondary expectations and readiness, improve high school graduation rates and postsecondary enrollment rates, and raise awareness of postsecondary options among student and families. This legislation amends Section 404 of the Higher Education Opportunity Act and would: Improve GEAR UP research and evaluation at the local and national levels Empower state and local leadership on the GEAR UP scholarship component Retain state and local flexibility in the design and implementation of programs Reduce administrative burden for GEAR UP grantees ###
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, US Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chris Coons (D-DE), and Cory Booker (D-NJ) will introduce the Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act. The new legislation merges two parallel efforts into one unified, bipartisan bill. In August of 2017, Senators Tillis and Coons introduced the Special Counsel Integrity Act, S. 1741, and Senators Graham and Booker introduced the Special Counsel Independence Protection Act, S. 1735. The bipartisan legislation introduced today harmonizes the Coons-Tillis bill and the Graham-Booker bill. The Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act: Codifies existing Department of Justice regulations to ensure that the Special Counsel can only be fired for good cause by a senior Justice Department official, and the reason must be provided in writing. Provides the Special Counsel a 10-day window in which he can seek expedited judicial review of his removal to determine whether the firing was for good cause. If the firing is ultimately determined to have violated the good-cause requirement, the removal will not take effect. Preserves the staffing, documents, and materials of the investigation while the matter is pending. “This compromise bipartisan bill helps ensure that special counsels – present or future – have the independence they need to conduct fair and impartial investigations,” said Senator Tillis. “The integrity and independence of special counsel investigations are vital to reaffirming the American people’s confidence in our nation’s rule of law.” “Special counsels must act within boundaries, but they must also be protected. Our bill allows judicial review of any decision to terminate a special counsel to make sure it’s done for the reasons cited in the regulation rather than political motivation. I think this will serve the country well. I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to make this law,” said Senator Graham. “This is a time when all of us—Republicans and Democrats—need to stand up and make it clear that we are committed to the rule of law in this country,” said Senator Coons. “We need to ensure not only that Special Counsel Mueller can complete his work without interference, but that special counsels in future investigations can, too.” "A nation of laws cannot exist if the people tasked with enforcing them are subjected to political interference or intimidation from the President,” said Senator Booker. “The Special Counsel Independence and Integrity Act will install a needed check and ensure that Special Counsel Mueller and his team – and any future special counsels -- are able to follow the facts and the law wherever they lead. Congress must act to advance this bipartisan legislation as soon as possible without any further delay.” ###
04.10.2018	Over $1.4 Billion in Assistance Has Been Awarded to North Carolina WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr announced that North Carolina has been awarded an additional $189 million to go towards Hurricane Matthew recovery. These funds were secured by the North Carolina delegation in the Senate budget agreement passed in February. The Department of Housing and Urban Development announced today that North Carolina would receive $168 million in disaster mitigation grants and the Department of Transportation announced North Carolina would receive $21 million in disaster assistance. In total, North Carolina has been awarded over $1.4 billion in federal funds through Congressional appropriations and grants. “Hurricane Matthew caused billions of dollars in damages and forced many families across Eastern North Carolina from their homes. I have worked with Senator Burr and the state’s Congressional delegation on a bipartisan basis to ensure North Carolina receives the federal assistance it needs for ongoing recovery efforts,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I want to thank the Department of Housing and Urban Development and Department of Transportation for allocating nearly $190 million in additional funds, which will go a long way in helping our local communities recover and ensure North Carolina’s families are not forgotten.” “Today’s announcements from both these agencies are another step forward to getting North Carolinians back on their feet after the devastating effects of Hurricane Matthew,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Our congressional delegation came together to urge Washington to meet its responsibility to our citizens and I’m pleased with what we accomplished.” These funds are provided through HUD’s Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Program and U.S. Department of Transportation Emergency Relief Program and will address seriously damaged housing, businesses and infrastructure most affected from Hurricane Matthew. CDBG-DR grants support a variety of disaster recovery activities including housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, and infrastructure repair. Grantees are required to spend the majority of these recovery funds in the “most impacted” areas as identified by HUD. HUD will issue administrative guidelines shortly for use of the funds to address grantees’ long-term recovery needs, particularly in the area of housing recovery. ###
04.04.2018	Yesterday, the Ceiling Fan Energy Conservation Harmonization Act, bipartisan and bicameral legislation introduced by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) in the Senate and Representatives Richard Hudson (R-NC-08) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) in the House, was signed into law. The legislation modifies the implementation of two upcoming regulations that would have passed on new costs to millions of American consumers if left unchanged. Previously, there were two efficiency requirement regulations on ceiling fans that would begin enforcement one year apart from each other: light bulbs in January 2019 and motors in January 2020. These misaligned dates would have created a significant problem for the industry when multiplied over thousands of stores, supply chain lead times, redundant employee work hours, and the transition of inventory. The staggered timing of the regulations would have wasted time and tens of millions of dollars in total compliance costs, including duplicative labor, labeling, and testing for product models that would then be reversed and replaced one year later. This would ultimately limit affordability and availability for American consumers. The legislation makes a simple change to synchronize the implementation of both regulations on the single enforcement date in 2020, avoiding wasteful costs that could have been passed onto Americans families. The residential ceiling fan market is roughly $1.8 billion, with 15 million units moved annually. “I am glad this bipartisan legislation to streamline the efficiency standards for ceiling fans has been signed into law by President Trump,” said Senator Tillis. “This commonsense, bipartisan law provides regulatory relief that will protect American families from being penalized with higher costs.” “I’m pleased our bipartisan legislation to streamline efficiency requirement regulations has been signed into law,” said Senator Heinrich. “Energy efficiency standards for ceiling fans and other appliances are a proven way to help consumers save money on their utility bills, while also lowering emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants. By modifying compliance with the standards, we can avoid passing along unnecessary costs associated with implementation to American families.” “I am glad to see this bipartisan bill to streamline regulations on ceiling fans and save consumers money signed into law,” said Rep. Hudson. “Although this issue probably won’t get too many headlines, it is one more example of how I’m working to bring common sense to Washington and get government out of the way.” “Ceiling fans are important to my constituents in Eastern North Carolina who use them as low-cost ways to keep their homes cool during the hot and humid summers,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield. “This bill helps keep costs low by streamlining the compliance process for manufacturers- which in turn, could make things easier and more cost efficient for retailers and consumers. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues to send this legislation to the president’s desk before the upcoming compliance deadlines.” ###
03.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after President Trump nominated Admiral Ronny L. Jackson as VA Secretary and announced that Robert Wilkie, a former senior advisor to Senator Tillis, will serve as Acting VA Secretary: “Robert Wilkie—my friend, former senior advisor, and proud North Carolina native—is an outstanding choice by the President to lead the transition at the VA. I can't think of anyone who is as capable, sincere, and passionate about serving and caring for the brave men and women who have worn the uniform. “I had a positive working relationship with Dr. Shulkin, as I did with his predecessor under President Obama, and I am grateful for his service to our nation. I look forward to working with Dr. Ronny Jackson on modernizing and reforming the VA, fixing the VA Choice Program, and implementing the major reforms that Congress has passed over the last year.” Background on Robert Wilkie: Robert Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, is the current Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, confirmed unanimously by the Senate in November 2017. Wilkie served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since Tillis took office in 2015 until late 2017, advising him on national security, military, and veterans affairs issues. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. ###
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that he met with imprisoned American pastor Andrew Brunson Monday at Buca Prison in Ismir, Turkey. Pastor Brunson is originally from Black Mountain, North Carolina, and has been imprisoned on false charges since October 7, 2016. Senator Tillis issued the following statement on his visit with Pastor Brunson: “Pastor Brunson is strengthened by his love for his family and his faith in God, but his health has deteriorated. He has lost 50 pounds and spends 24 hours a day in a cell with limited human contact. He is attempting to visit a doctor this week, which involves him being handcuffed and transported with several armed guards. He fears the possibility that the American government accepts the indictment and forgets about him, which we will not allow to happen. “There should be no mistake that Pastor Brunson is the victim of false accusations, and we call upon the Turkish authorities to honestly and transparently review his indictment. Pastor Brunson is being used as a political pawn by some elements of the Turkish government. These elements seek to undercut the longstanding partnership between the United States and Turkey, in which our two nations have enjoyed close diplomatic, economic, and military ties. It is vital that our nations continue this partnership and continue to work together to pursue our common interests. “I would also note the continued detention of multiple other U.S. citizens, as well as several Turkish staff of the U.S. diplomatic Mission, on scant evidence under the state of emergency, which continues to undermine the partnership between our two countries. It is time for Pastor Brunson and these individuals to be reunited with their families. We look forward to Pastor Brunson’s return home to America.” ###
03.27.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), the bipartisan co-authors of the Special Counsel Integrity Act, released the following statement: “We have heard from constituents – Republicans, Democrats, and Independents alike – who agree that Special Counsel Robert Mueller should be able to conduct his investigation without interference. This should not be a partisan issue. We introduced the Special Counsel Integrity Act because we believe that the American people should have confidence in the Department of Justice’s ability to conduct independent investigations and its commitment to the rule of law. We urge President Trump to allow the Special Counsel to complete his work without impediment, which is in the best interest of the American people, the President, and our nation.” ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, the House of Representatives unanimously passed the Ceiling Fan Energy Conservation Harmonization Act, bipartisan and bicameral legislation introduced by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) in the Senate and Representatives Richard Hudson (R-NC-08) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC- 01) in the House. The legislation which modifies the implementation of two upcoming regulations that would have passed on new costs to millions of American consumers if left unchanged unanimously passed the Senate in December 2017. The bill now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law after passing the House of Representatives. There are currently two efficiency requirement regulations on ceiling fans that will begin enforcement one year apart from each other: light bulbs in January 2019 and motors in January 2020. These misaligned dates could create a significant problem for the industry when multiplied over thousands of stores, supply chain lead times, redundant employee work hours, and the transition of inventory. The separate timing of the regulations could result in wasted time and cost tens of millions of dollars in total resources, including duplicative labor, labeling, testing, and reversing and replacing product models. This would ultimately harm affordability and availability for American consumers. The legislation makes a simple change to streamline the enforcement of both regulations to the 2020 date, avoiding wasteful costs that could have been passed onto Americans families. The residential ceiling fan market is roughly $1.8 billion, with 15 million units moved annually. “I’m pleased that Congress came together to unanimously pass our legislation that makes one simple change to upcoming regulations that will help save millions of American consumers from a price increase on a product they need and depend on,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Representative Hudson for his work on this commonsense, bipartisan approach to addressing regulations, and I look forward to it being signed into law soon.” “I’m pleased our bipartisan legislation to streamline efficiency requirement regulations passed the House and will now go to the president for his signature,” said Senator Heinrich. “Energy efficiency standards for ceiling fans and other appliances are a proven way to help consumers save money on their utility bills, while also lowering emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants. By modifying compliance with the standards, we can avoid passing along unnecessary costs associated with implementation to American families.” “I am glad to see this bipartisan bill to streamline regulations on ceiling fans and save consumers money pass Congress,” said Rep. Hudson. “Although this issue probably won’t get too many headlines, it is one more example of how I am working to bring common sense to Washington and get government out of the way. I want to thank Senator Tillis for his leadership on this issue, and I’m glad to see our bill reach the finish line.” ###
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Cornyn (R-TX), and Chuck Grassley (R-IA) introduced the PROTECT Asbestos Victims Act, commonsense legislation that provides much-needed oversight of asbestos bankruptcy trusts to ensure victims receive just compensation. “Asbestos bankruptcy trusts were created to compensate asbestos victims, not trial lawyers,” said Senator Tillis. “The PROTECT Asbestos Victims Act will reform the asbestos bankruptcy trust system by adding in layers of oversight, accountability and transparency, which in turn will help eliminate fraud and ensure that trusts are able to compensate present and future asbestos victims.” “Those affected by asbestos-related diseases deserve compensation free from mismanagement by the bankruptcy system,” said Senator Cornyn. “This legislation would criminalize the submission of fraudulent claims and allow the Justice Department to conduct the oversight necessary to ensure asbestos victims receive the payments they are due.” “Fraudsters and poor management cannot be allowed to cheat victims of asbestos-related diseases out of the assistance Congress established for them years ago through the Asbestos Bankruptcy Trust system,” said Senator Grassley. “We need commonsense accountability measures to ensure that the trust fund is not syphoned away from the victims it was intended to help. And we need independent oversight to protect against any waste, fraud, and abuse. This bill accomplishes these much needed reforms.” In 1994, Congress created a system of bankruptcy trusts to ensure that current and future victims of asbestos-related diseases could receive compensation from corporations with liability exposure. Unfortunately, the asbestos bankruptcy trust system lacks any independent oversight by a neutral third party to ensure that the trusts are not deceived into paying erroneous or false claims for compensation. Because there is no effective oversight of the trusts, there are widespread reports of fraud and mismanagement. In fact, one former trial lawyer turned whistleblower has described the schemes used to cheat trusts as “institutionalized fraud.” Fraudulent claims deplete the fixed amount of money in the trusts, potentially causing compensation for future victims to be reduced or unavailable altogether. The PROTECT Asbestos Victims Act protects future asbestos victims by implementing several key reforms to the bankruptcy trust system. Empowers the US Trustee Program of the Department of Justice to investigate fraud against asbestos trusts, which they are prevented from doing under current law. Makes it a crime to knowingly submit a false claim to a trust. Allows for the appointment of a special representative to advise future victims in a bankruptcy case – this person must be completely disinterested to ensure the most effective advocacy for future victims. Mandates that trusts report claims information to CMS to ensure Medicare and Medicaid are properly reimbursed. Currently, the Medicare and Medicaid programs are being financially harmed because asbestos trusts have failed to reimburse the programs. In order to prevent fraudulent claims in both state and federal proceedings, requires trusts to comply with subpoenas from state courts seeking information (under seal) related to trusts payments and ensures that the party requesting the information pays reasonable costs to the trust. ###
03.16.2018	Pair recently re-established the Senate NATO Observer Group to serve as a focal point for engagement between NATO and the Senate WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), co-chairs of the Senate NATO Observer Group, issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced that some U.S. nuclear, water and electric systems have been subject to Russian cyberattacks and could have been sabotaged: “These attacks are a sobering reminder of the work that desperately needs to be done to bolster our nation’s cyber defenses,” said Tillis and Shaheen. “The Kremlin is launching a myriad of hybrid attacks to weaken and undermine Western nations, particularly NATO members, and the United States is no exception. Many frontline NATO nations have made great strides in improving their cyber defenses to withstand Putin’s aggression. Continued cooperation with NATO members will be integral to our efforts to protecting the United States.” The re-established Observer Group has an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability, NATO enlargement and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. The Senate NATO Observer Group was first established over twenty years ago in 1997 by Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-MS) and Minority Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) to serve as a connection between the Administration, NATO and the U.S. Senate. The Senate NATO Observer Group has been re-established since, in 2002, but was disbanded in 2007 due to a lack of NATO enlargement rounds. ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, applauded the Senate passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, bipartisan legislation to improve our nation’s financial regulatory framework and promote economic growth. Included in the legislation is the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), which would protect veterans from targeted predatory home loan practices by requiring lenders to demonstrate a material benefit to consumers when refinancing their mortgage. “Passage of this bill is proof that Congress can come together on a bipartisan basis and pass meaningful legislation on behalf of the American people. The inclusion of bipartisan legislation I introduced to protect veterans and servicemembers from predatory home-lending will also help families from being targeted by bad actors abusing the VA home loan program, and is a win for the military community,” said Senator Tillis. “Over the last three years, I have heard from financial institutions across North Carolina about the impact of burdensome regulations, which has restricted access to capital for Americans all across the country. Dodd-Frank’s harmful one-size-fits-all approach has proven to be a failure, and this legislation will help ensure farmers, small-business owners, and first-time home buyers have the resources they need to allow our economy to thrive again. I look forward to this legislation being signed into law, and believe it is an important step—building on the economic growth being generated from the tax reform law Congress passed late last year.” Background on the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018: The Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA) home loan program was designed to provide veterans and servicemembers with the opportunity to purchase their own home through a VA insured mortgage from a private lender. VA loans have lower credit score requirements than other mortgages, and often don’t require down payments. Since its inception, it has insured more than 20 million home loans to help veterans become homeowners. However, today a small number of lenders are abusing the program by utilizing misleading advertising tactics and engaging in a practice known as “churning” – the refinancing of a home loan over and over again to generate fees and profits for lenders at the direct expense of veterans and their families, often without their knowledge. Over a period of time from April of 2016 through August of 2017, over 1,000,000 VA home loans were made, including 50,000 loans in North Carolina alone, and almost half of those were refinanced VA loans. The vast majority of those refinanced loans are being originated by good actors, but this legislation addresses a pool of refinanced VA loans—over 40,000 nationwide and 1,000+ in North Carolina over the aforementioned time period—wherein veterans may have been subjected to abusive lending practices by some in the marketplace who engage in “churning.” ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation he introduced with Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), was included as a provision in the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, bipartisan legislation currently being considered by the Senate. The Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018 would protect veterans from targeted predatory home loan practices by requiring lenders to demonstrate a material benefit to consumers when refinancing their mortgage. “Over the last few years, a few bad actors have taken advantage of the VA home loan program and began targeting veterans and servicemembers to generate profit and fees at their expense, often leading to higher loan amounts and putting families in a worse financial position than they started off,” said Senator Tillis. “The VA home loan program was designed to give our men and women in uniform the opportunity to become homeowners as they raise their families, and we must do everything we can to protect them from predatory home-lending. I am glad this legislation was included in the bipartisan banking relief bill being considered by the Senate, and I look forward to getting this important piece of legislation passed and signed into law.” Background: The Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA) home loan program was designed to provide veterans and servicemembers with the opportunity to purchase their own home through a VA insured mortgage from a private lender. VA loans have lower credit score requirements than other mortgages, and often don’t require down payments. Since its inception, it has insured more than 20 million home loans to help veterans become homeowners. However, today a small number of lenders are abusing the program by utilizing misleading advertising tactics and engaging in a practice known as “churning” – the refinancing of a home loan over and over again to generate fees and profits for lenders at the direct expense of veterans and their families, often without their knowledge. Over a period of time from April of 2016 through August of 2017, over 1,000,000 VA home loans were made, including 50,000 loans in North Carolina alone, and almost half of those were refinanced VA loans. The vast majority of those refinanced loans are being originated by good actors, but this legislation addresses a pool of refinanced VA loans—over 40,000 nationwide and 1,000+ in North Carolina over the aforementioned time period—wherein veterans may have been subjected to abusive lending practices by some in the marketplace who engage in “churning.” ###
03.08.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke with Kevin Cirilli on Bloomberg about the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act and the recent discussion over tariffs.CLICK HERE to watch the interview. Senator Tillis on Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act:“This legislation provides relief to community banks and midsize regional banks. It does not restrict the regulators from going down the chain and identifying any practices that need additional regulations, but instead of assuming you have to overregulate, do it when the behavior of the banks warrants it. What we are trying to do is fix the regulatory regime so we can get community banks back in business. We have seen a dramatic fall in the number of community banks that have a personal relationship with the people seeking loans. We have bipartisan support for this bill because we have fixed the regulatory burden on smaller banks, we think it makes sense, and believe it will have a positive effect on the banking sector.” Senator Tillis on regulations:“We have to continue to right-size regulations. Instead of swinging for the fences, there are a number of things we can do to remove the regulatory burdens. We want to protect consumers, but there is a right way to do it and a wrong way to do it. What we are trying to do is get the economy moving and capital flowing so people get the loans they need to invest in businesses, grow the economy, and create jobs.” Senator Tillis on tariffs:“I hope we take a surgical approach to tariffs. It's not that we don’t want to call out the bad actors, including China and other nations guilty of what we consider unfair trade practices, but we also have to realize the global nature of trade today. We have to be careful to find a policy that punishes the bad actors but does not have a stifling effect on global supply chains. We do not make any one thing in any one country, and you have to look at the full effect. We also have to look at the unintended consequences of tariffs on agriculture, commodities, and other things that are not at the basis of the tariffs being imposed.” ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Personnel, held a hearing to receive testimony on domestic violence and child abuse in the military. CLICK HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ opening statement. CLICK HERE to watch the full hearing. "Domestic violence and child abuse are significant problems that cause immense harm to our society and within our military services," said Senator Tillis. “We must do more work to address the many factors - relationship, community, and societal factors - that may lead to domestic violence and child abuse. We must also develop evidence-based prevention strategies and implement comprehensive support programs to help victims." “While the data shows that the military's domestic violence and child abuse incidence rates are lower than comparable rates in civilian communities, I am deeply disturbed that both intimate partners and children die every year at the hands of military service members,"Senator Tillis continued. "The DOD and the military services must not rest until they totally eliminate violence and abuse of intimate partners and children within their ranks. I will continue to work with my colleagues in this subcommittee to provide whatever additional resources the DOD and the services need to strengthen its programs of prevention and victim support." The subcommittee members heard testimony from 2 panels that included the following witnesses: Panel 1 -- Advocates for Ending and Survivors of Domestic Abuse: Ms. Adrian Perry – Parent of Child Abuse Survivor Ms. Merci McKinley – Domestic Violence Survivor Ms. Iris Vega - Domestic Violence Court Advocate, Doorways For Women And Families Panel 2 -- Government Witnesses and Experts: Ms. Stephanie Barna - Senior Policy Advisor, Under Secretary Of Defense, Personnel And Readiness Dr. Casey T. Taft - Professor Of Psychiatry, Boston University School Of Medicine Dr. Jacquelyn C. Campbell, RN, FAAN - Professor, Anna D. Wolf Chair, Johns Hopkins School Of Nursing Dr. Kenneth A. Dodge – Professor, Sanford School Of Public Policy, Duke University ###
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement regarding today’s announcement from the President on steel and aluminum tariffs: "Recent tax cuts and continued regulatory relief are driving positive economic growth and bolstering consumer confidence. Congress and the White House should be doing everything in their power to build off of tax reform and keep this momentum going. While I’m supportive of punishing bad actors who abuse trade policy, our response needs to be methodical and surgical so we aren’t inadvertently punishing America’s allies and sparking retaliatory tariffs that could slow down our economic momentum." ###
03.07.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a group of eight senators and two representatives to introduce a bipartisan, bicameral bill that will use revenues from energy production on federal lands to help pay for the over $11 billion maintenance backlog at our national parks. That backlog includes $215 million for projects in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park as well as the $35.2 million in outstanding debt owed to Swain County for rebuilding the North Shore Road.CLICK HERE to watch Senator Tillis speak. Joining Senator Tillis are Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Angus King (I-ME), Steve Daines (R-MT), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV) Joe Manchin (D- WV), Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Representatives Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Kurt Schrader (D-OR). The group has been working with Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on the National Park Restoration Act, which will help restore and rebuild roads, buildings, campgrounds, trails and water systems to preserve our country’s national parks for the next generation of visitors. “America was blessed with stunning landscapes that attract visitors from all over the world and add substantial economic and cultural value in regions like Western North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “We must actively work to rebuild and improve our National Parks, including the $215 million backlog in the Great Smoky Mountains and $35 million outstanding obligations to rebuild a road in Swain County that was destroyed in 1943. I want to thank Senator Alexander for taking an active lead to tackle deferred maintenance projects across the country and in the National Park our states share.” “This legislation will help address the over $11 billion maintenance backlog at our national parks, including the $215 million backlog of projects in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park,” Senator Alexander said. “The Great Smoky Mountains National Park is one of America’s greatest treasures – and it has a tremendous economic impact in East Tennessee, attracting nearly twice the visitors of any other national park. Addressing the maintenance backlog will help attract even more visitors and create more jobs for Tennesseans. We must continue to work together to find solutions to the many challenges facing our public lands, and this legislation takes an important step toward doing that.” “Introduction of this legislation is monumental to the growth of the economies of Swain, Jackson and Haywood Counties,” said North Carolina Representative Mike Clampitt. “I am very pleased at the cooperation and leadership of President Trump, Senator Tillis, Senator Burr, Representative Meadows and Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke to bring this very long and frustrating Road Agreement issue to closure for the citizens of Swain County. This bipartisan effort exemplifies the advantages of parties working together for the benefit of everyone. My gratitude also extends to our neighbor, Senator Lamar Alexander, for his assistance and leadership in the maintenance and upgrading of our Park facilities. These have been neglected for too long. Swain and Haywood Counties are home to a vast majority of the North Carolina side of the Great Smoky Mountain National Park and passage of this legislation will greatly benefit this entire area.” The National Park Restoration Act: Creates the National Park Restoration Fund to provide mandatory funding for the high-priority deferred maintenance needs that support critical infrastructure and visitor services at our national parks. Provides mandatory funding for the maintenance backlog on top of annual appropriations for operations and construction at the National Park Service. The fund receives 50 percent of onshore and offshore revenues from energy production on federal lands over expected amounts that are not already allocated to other purposes. Protects payments to states, the Land and Water Conservation Fund, the Reclamation Fund, and all other existing uses of onshore and offshore revenues. These existing uses will receive all of their funding before the National Park Restoration Fund receives any funding. The backlog of infrastructure projects at our national parks can limit access and impair visitor experiences and recreation opportunities, and without additional funding, the backlog could continue to grow. The National Park Service (NPS) maintenance backlog is nearly four times what NPS receives in annual appropriations. In Fiscal Year 2017 the NPS’ deferred maintenance needs were $11.6 billion – that same fiscal year, NPS received $2.9 million in annual appropriations. President Trump and Secretary Zinke have made addressing the growing maintenance backlog a top priority. ###
03.07.2018	Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr announced the North Carolina Department of Transportation will receive a $19.9 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant for Raleigh, NC. The project eliminates a railroad crossing by lowering the Blue Ridge Road from its current ground level to instead pass under the North Carolina Railroad (NCRR). It also reconfigures existing nearby intersections and adjacent access roadways. “I want to thank Secretary Chao and the Department of Transportation for awarding Raleigh this substantial grant through the competitive TIGER program,” said Senator Tillis. “This grant will go a long way to ensure North Carolina’s citizens are safe while ensuring the North Carolina Railroad can travel efficiently.” “I’m glad to see Raleigh, North Carolina chosen as the recipient of this competitive TIGER Grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation,” said Senator Burr. “This money will go a long way toward completing a long planned and important infrastructure project around the I-440 Beltline in Raleigh.” “TIGER grants are direct federal investments in projects that will improve our surface transportation at the national, regional or local level,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine L. Chao said. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017 appropriated $500 million, available through September 30, 2020, for National Infrastructure Investments otherwise known as TIGER grants. As with previous rounds of TIGER, funds for the fiscal year (FY) 2017 TIGER grants program are to be awarded on a competitive basis for projects that will have a significant impact on the Nation, a metropolitan area, or a region. The FY 2017 Appropriations Act specifies that TIGER Discretionary Grants may not be less than $5 million and not greater than $25 million, except that for projects located in rural areas the minimum TIGER Discretionary Grant size is $1 million. ###
03.06.2018	Today, Senator Richard Burr and Senator Thom Tillis released the following statement regarding the nomination of Gregory Allyn Forest to be the United States Marshal for the Western District of North Carolina: “Mr. Forest is an excellent choice for North Carolina’s Western District U.S. Marshal, having served in the same role under President George W. Bush,” said Senator Burr. “With nine years in the Charlotte Police Department and more than twenty years with the Western District of North Carolina in various law enforcement roles, he is well–prepared to serve the people of North Carolina.” “I applaud the nomination of Gregory Forest to be the Western District Marshal in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “I recommended Mr. Forest to President Trump because he has extensive law enforcement experience in Western North Carolina, including previously serving in the same role under President George W. Bush, and I look forward to supporting his nomination in the U.S. Senate.” Background Information Mr. Forest is currently the Deputy Director of International Trade Compliance for IOMAX, USA in Mooresville, North Carolina. Upon earning his Criminal Justice degree from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Greg served in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department until 1995. He then worked for the U.S. Probation Office in the Western District of North Carolina, eventually becoming a Senior Officer and Drug and Alcohol Treatment Specialist. He was appointed in 2002 by President George W. Bush to serve as North Carolina’s Western District U.S. Marshal, serving for two years before returning to the U.S. Probation and Pretrial office. He was N.C.’s Western District Chief Probation Officer until his retirement three years ago. ###
03.05.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) congratulated Naval Medical Center Camp Lejeune for receiving verification as a Level III Trauma Center. The announcement from the American College of Surgeons (ACS) comes in the wake of Senator Tillis hosting a roundtable in Jacksonville, NC in May 2017, where he brought together regional civilian trauma leaders and Camp Lejeune medical leaders with the goal of becoming a Trauma Center. At that same roundtable, Senator Tillis was pleased to announce that "Naval Hospital Camp Lejeune" was becoming "Naval Medical Center Camp Lejeune," a major step to receiving the Trauma Center designation. Since the announcement, the medical center designation has paved the way for a joint military-civilian trauma system that provides trauma care for DOD beneficiaries, veterans, and civilians. The Level III verification represents a major step forward in providing trauma care to the Eastern NC region and an opportunity for the Naval Medical Corpsmen at Camp Lejeune to provide trauma care to the community, thereby increasing readiness and ensuring that the first real "trauma event" a Corpsman experiences is not in combat. Additionally, Naval Medical Center Camp Lejeune was given zero negative findings during its inspections, a rarity in the industry and a sign of the high quality of care. “Just last year, I had the honor of announcing that Camp Lejeune’s Naval Hospital would be upgraded to a medical center, which paved the way to receive designation as a high level trauma center. Since then, Naval Medical Center Camp Lejeune has made incredible progress in providing trauma care for residents of Eastern North Carolina and training services for military medics,” said Senator Tillis. “The verification as a level III trauma center is an incredible achievement and a testament to the Navy’s commitment to world-class trauma care and the life-saving work being done by medical professionals at Camp Lejeune.” ###
03.01.2018	Group will include an expanded mission to monitor NATO’s rapidly developing needs and capabilities WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a press conference yesterday, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) announced the re-establishment of the Senate North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Observer Group. This re-established Observer Group, which will be co-chaired by Senators Tillis and Shaheen, will have an expanded mission to closely monitor and inform Senators outside of national security committees about defense spending commitments of Alliance members, the process of upgrading military capabilities, the Alliance’s counter-terrorism capability, NATO enlargement and the ability of NATO member states to address non-conventional warfare. The Senators were also joined by NATO Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, General Curtis M. Scaparrotti and Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs, Wess Mitchell. “In today’s day and age, we face an endless amount of threats, both known and unknown. I look forward to using the platform of the NATO Observer Group to discuss how our alliance can better prepare for hybrid, and in particular, cyber threats from Russia and other adversaries,” said Senator Tillis. “Re-establishing this group would not have been possible without the support of General Scaparrotti, Ambassador Hutchison, and Senate Leadership. I also want to thank Senator Shaheen for her partnership as we stand with many of our Senate colleagues to recognize the importance of a strong and committed NATO alliance, as our community of democracies continues to expand and thrive.” "Now more than ever, it's imperative that the United States work closely with NATO to respond to the ever-evolving threats to western democracies, particularly from the Kremlin,” said Senator Shaheen. “This new Senate NATO Observer Group will serve as a focal point for engagement between NATO and the Senate as these institutions seek to strengthen transatlantic bonds and modernize NATO to respond to hybrid warfare and other threats. I'm looking forward to this important work and extend my thanks to Majority Leader McConnell, Minority Leader Schumer, General Scaparrotti, and Ambassador Hutchison for their support for this effort." “I am delighted that my former colleagues in the Senate have re-established the Senate NATO Observers Group. I believe the reconstitution of this Observers Group demonstrates the deep and bipartisan support the Alliance enjoys across our nation,” said Ambassador Kay Bailey Hutchison, the U.S. Permanent Representative to NATO. “I wholeheartedly support this initiative and pledge myself and our staff at the U.S. Mission to NATO to assist Senators Shaheen and Tillis and the other members of the group to obtain timely and pertinent information on the Alliance and the important decisions that it is dealing with. I welcome the Observer Group members to Brussels for regular consultations at NATO headquarters and stand ready to brief members whenever I am in Washington. NATO remains the most successful security alliance in history. I am proud of the leadership our Administration has brought to the Alliance and look forward to continuing our role in NATO on behalf of the American people.” Senators Tillis and Shaheen received support from Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) to re-establish the Observer Group. Ambassador Kay Bailey Hutchison and General Scaparrotti were also integral in the re-establishment of the group and have pledged their participation to ensure the Group receives timely and important updates on NATO developments. The Senate NATO Observer Group was first established over twenty years ago in 1997 by Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-MS) and Minority Leader Tom Daschle (D-SD) to serve as a connection between the Administration, NATO and the U.S. Senate. The Senate NATO Observer Group has been re-established since, in 2002, but was disbanded in 2007 due to a lack of NATO enlargement rounds. ###
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr praised the life and legacy of Reverend Billy Graham on the Senate Floor following the ceremony held in the U.S. Capitol. CLICK HERE to watch both speeches. CLICK HERE to watch Senator Tillis. “I have two very distinct memories with my father. One was watching Walter Cronkite, and the other was watching Billy Graham on the living room floor as he spoke the Word of God. The legacy Reverend Graham left behind will live on for generations, and I am proud to be the Senator from North Carolina where he was born and resided,” said Senator Tillis. “I look forward to celebrating his life and the work he did to change the lives of millions of people around the world by preaching the Word of God, and I want to thank the entire Graham family for allowing us to be a part of this day.” CLICK HERE to watch Senator Burr. “Martin Luther King, Jr. said, ‘Had it not been for the ministry of my good friend, Dr. Billy Graham, my work in the Civil Rights Movement would not have been as successful as it has been.’ The country mourns the loss of Dr. Graham, but the country understands the impact of his life, that life as a servant of God to preach his Word to everyone he could find,” said Senator Burr.“He exhausted the opportunities that were given to him and proudly affects generations that have yet to be born by the work that he did as a disciple of our Lord Jesus Christ.” ###
02.28.2018	Today, Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis released the following statement on the passage of Senate Joint Resolution 53, honoring the life of Reverend William “Billy” F. Graham, Jr.: “I’m honored to be able to pass this resolution on behalf of Rev. Graham’s family and the millions of people across the world whose lives and faith were made stronger by Rev. Graham,” said Senator Burr. “His was a life fully lived, bringing so many people closer to God. Our hearts are with the late Reverend’s family. May he rest in everlasting peace.” “Reverend Billy Graham was a proud North Carolinian whose devotion to faith and the Gospel bettered our country and the world,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m proud to introduce this resolution to celebrate his life and legacy as America’s Pastor.” Background Information Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis were joined by Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO), Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), Senator Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS), Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), Senator Susan Collins (R-ME), Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR), Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX), Senator Steve Daines (R-MT), Senator Mike Enzi (R-WY), Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE), Senator Cory Gardener (R-CO), Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Senator Dean Heller (R-NV), Senator John Hoeven (R-ND), Senator Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI), Senator John Kennedy (R-LA), Senator James Lankford (R-OK), Senator Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL), Senator Rand Paul (R-KY), Senator David Perdue (R-GA), Senator Rob Portman (R-OH), Senator Pat Roberts (R-KS), Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL), Senator Tim Scott (R-SC), Senator John Thune (R-SD), Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA), Senator Mark Warner (D-VA), and Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS). Senators Burr and Tillis jointly introduced Senate Joint Resolution 53, honoring the life of William “Billy” F. Graham Jr. The text of the resolution reads as follows: JOINT RESOLUTION Honoring the life of William ‘‘Billy’’ F. Graham, Jr. Whereas William ‘‘Billy’’ F. Graham, Jr., was born on November 7, 1918, in Charlotte, North Carolina; Whereas, in 1939, Reverend Graham was ordained by Peniel Baptist Church in Florida; Whereas Reverend Graham studied at Florida Bible Institute and graduated from Wheaton College in Wheaton, Illinois, in 1943; Whereas Reverend Graham married his wife of nearly 64 years, Ruth McCue Bell, in 1943; Whereas Reverend Graham had 3 daughters, 2 sons, 19 grandchildren, and numerous great grandchildren; Whereas, in 1950, Reverend Graham founded the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, which is based in Charlotte, North Carolina; Whereas Reverend Graham preached to nearly 215,000,000 individuals in more than 185 countries and territories on 6 continents; Whereas Reverend Graham provided spiritual counsel for every President since Harry Truman; Whereas Reverend Graham prayed with members of the Armed Forces in combat zones in South Korea and Vietnam; Whereas Reverend Graham spoke against the communist Soviet Union, saying, ‘‘Communism has decided against God, against Christ, against the Bible, and against all religion.’’; Whereas Reverend Graham—(1) fought for racial integration;(2) invited Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., to preachwith him in New York City in 1957; and(3) bailed Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., out of jailwhen Dr. King was arrested for protesting segregation; Whereas, following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, Reverend Graham spoke words of hope and comfort to the people of the United States at the Washington National Cathedral; Whereas Reverend Graham authored 34 books, including the bestselling autobiography, ‘‘Just as I Am’’, which began by discussing his early days on a dairy farm in North Carolina and continued through his career as a preacher and evangelist; and Whereas Reverend Graham received numerous honors, including—(1) the North Carolina Award for Public Service;(2) the Presidential Medal of Freedom;(3) the Ronald Reagan Freedom Award; and(4) the Congressional Gold Medal: Now, therefore,be it Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress—(1) extends its sympathies to the family of William ‘‘Billy’’ F. Graham, Jr.; and(2) honors—(A) the life and ministry of Reverend Graham; and(B) the contributions of Reverend Grahamto—(i) the State of North Carolina; (ii) the United States of America; and(iii) the moral and religious lives of millions of individuals. ###
02.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement following the passing of North Carolina’s Reverend Billy Graham: “Reverend Billy Graham, a proud North Carolinian, was truly America’s Pastor and spiritual compass. He dedicated his life to preaching the Gospel and inspired millions of people in America and across the globe. He preached in favor of inclusiveness and viewed diversity in our society as a strength. His counsel was sought by many Presidents – Republicans and Democrats alike – in no small part because of his unshakable moral clarity and convictions. “Reverend Graham’s life’s work and devotion to faith bettered our country and the world. I join my fellow citizens in celebrating a great and historic man, and North Carolina’s favorite son.” ###
02.16.2018	Bipartisan, Bicameral Legislation would Establish Penalties for Criminals Creating, Fueling Substance Abuse to Control Victims WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced bipartisan, bicameral legislation to crack down on drug-facilitated human trafficking. The Protecting Rights of Those Exploited by Coercive Trafficking (PROTECT) Act would specifically address the use of drugs to facilitate human trafficking and protect vulnerable victims of trafficking. Human traffickers often introduce or exploit drug addiction to control or force victims into prostitution or forced labor. This compounds the trauma experienced by human trafficking victims and undermines recovery efforts for individuals suffering from addiction. “We should do everything in our power to bring human traffickers to justice, particularly those who use drugs to control their victims,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to join this bipartisan legislation that will strengthen the penalties for these criminals and help ensure human traffickers are held accountable for their atrocious crimes.” Senator Tillis introduced the legislation with Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), John Cornyn (R-TX), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Rob Portman (R-OH). U.S. Representatives John Ratcliffe (R-TX-4) and Kathleen Rice (D-NY-4) introduced the legislation in the House of Representatives. The PROTECT Act would amend existing law to specify that the use of drugs or illegal substances to cause a person to engage in a commercial sex act or forced labor constitutes a form of coercion. The PROTECT Act also contains a provision to protect trafficking victims from prosecution, recognizing that victims are often forced to commit crimes by virtue of their own victimization. The bipartisan legislation has been endorsed by a number of law enforcement organizations and human trafficking victim advocacy groups including: the Fraternal Order of Police, National Sheriffs’ Association, Major County Sheriff’s Association, National District Attorney’s Association, Polaris Project, Shared Hope International, National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, and Truckers against Trafficking. A one-pager on the bill can be found HERE. ###
02.16.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, introduced a resolution recognizing the critical work of human rights defenders in promoting human rights, the rule of law, democracy, and good governance. The resolution also condemns threats to human rights defenders, encourages all countries to recognize their duties to protect fundamental freedoms, and calls on the President and Secretary of State to maintain U.S. leadership in promoting human rights. “Every day, millions of people around the world face human rights abuses and threats to their freedoms, and human rights defenders play a courageous role in standing up in opposition,” said Senator Tillis. “Since 1998, an estimated 3,500 human rights defenders have been killed advocating on behalf of oppressed people, and I am proud to introduce this resolution in their honor. The United States must be a leader in protecting human rights, and I will continue to work with Senator Coons and the Senate Human Rights Caucus to speak out against any abuses that occur.” “As a co-chair of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, I stand with human rights defenders around the world who face threats to their safety and to their right to advocate for the protection of human rights,”said Senator Coons. “I will continue working with Senator Tillis to promote accountability for human rights abuses and to pass this resolution in honor of those who have lost their lives advancing the fundamental freedoms of all people.” The full resolution is available here. ###
02.16.2018	This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Personnel, held a hearing to receive testimony on military and civilian personnel programs and on military family readiness. The panel included the Honorable Robert L. Wilkie, Jr., Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and former Senior Advisor to Senator Tillis.CLICK HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ Opening Statement. CLICK HERE to watch the full hearing. “As the United States faces an increasingly complex global security environment, our military’s personnel programs and policies must build an agile and adaptable force capable of responding to the uncertain threats we face,” said Senator Tillis. “A high-quality military and civilian defense workforce must appeal to this nation’s best and brightest young people; provide greater stability and flexibility to service members in their professional and personal lives, and provide compensation commensurate with the level of responsibility inherent to a military career. “As we do all of this, we cannot lose sight of the military families who support our troops much better than any personnel policy ever could,” Senator Tillis continued. “Military families confront unique stressors and challenges, which must be considered in any discussion of military personnel management. Congress needs to understand military families’ concerns and work diligently to ensure that the Department of Defense provides the support and services families need. The readiness of our Armed Forces and, ultimately, our nation’s security depends on it because if the Defense Department fails to support military families, our volunteer service members will walk away.” The subcommittee members heard testimony from 2 panels that included the following witnesses: Panel 1: The Honorable Robert L. Wilkie, Jr., Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness; Lieutenant General Thomas C. Seamands, Deputy Army Chief of Staff; Vice Admiral Robert P. Burke, Chief of Naval Personnel/Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Manpower, Personnel, Training and Education; Lieutenant General Gina M. Grosso, Deputy Air Force Chief of Staff for Manpower, Personnel and Services; and Lieutenant General Michael A. Rocco, Deputy Marine Commandant, Manpower and Reserve Affairs. Panel 2: Ms. Kathy Roth-Douquet, CEO of Blue Star Families; Ms. Kelly Hruska, Government Relations Director of the National Military Family Association; and J. Michael Haynie, Ph.D., Vice Chancellor for Strategic Initiatives and Innovation, Syracuse University. ###
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a series of failed votes in the Senate on four immigration proposals, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “It’s clear that the only path forward to providing a permanent solution for DACA youth, securing our borders, and modernizing our immigration system is building consensus on a plan that the President supports and can be signed into law. I’ll continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reach that consensus.” ###
02.15.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the Administration for requesting that the National Park Service (NPS) provide Swain County with funds to cover all outstanding financial obligations for the North Shore Road settlement as a part of the President's Fiscal Year 2019 budget proposals, released Monday. The Department of Interior requested $20 million for FY2019. The remaining $15.2 million was identified for FY2020 in the NPS Line Item Construction 5-year Plan. In the early 1940s the federal government flooded several communities in Swain County to build the Fontana Dam. In 1943, the federal government promised to rebuild the 30-mile North Shore Road that was also flooded. For over six decades the government failed to deliver on that promise and in 2007 agreed to a cash settlement of $52 million. In 2010 the Department of Interior, Swain County, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and the State of North Carolina entered into a “Memorandum of Agreement” to "settle any and all claims under the 1943 Agreement" by December 31, 2020. Last year, Senator Tillis helped secure $4 million that was appropriated to Swain County in 2012 but was never transferred to the county. To date, total repayment equals just $16.8 million, leaving $35.2 million in unpaid debt. Secretary Zinke has ranked the North Shore Road Monetary Settlement as the Department’s number one priority over all construction projects in both FY2019 and FY2020. “The federal government has a responsibility to fulfill its financial obligations to Swain County,” said Senator Tillis. “This request demonstrates a commitment to make good on the promise to repay Swain County for the damage caused when the federal government flooded its communities. I want to thank Secretary Zinke for making this is a priority in the budget and I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues to resolve this issue once and for all.” # # #
02.13.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) urging the reimbursement of veterans who were billed for emergency treatment at private hospitals. In January, the VA announced that it would not retroactively reimburse veterans for their emergency treatment despite a court decision that ruled the VA is responsible for emergency medical costs at private, non-VA hospitals. In response, the Senators wrote to VA Secretary David Shulkin urging him to reimburse veterans who filed a claim for emergency medical costs before the court ruling. “Between 2010 and April 16, 2016, the VA erroneously denied thousands of veterans’ claims for emergency treatment,” the Senators wrote. “With the VA’s recent interpretation of this ruling, veterans who filed claims before April 16, 2016 would see no relief from the VA’s wrongful application of the law and would be stuck paying medical bills that Congress intended that the VA pay. We ask that the VA include those veterans whose claims were decided before April 16, 2016, so that all veterans can fully take advantage of a benefit Congress intended they receive.” The Expansion of Veteran Eligibility for Reimbursement Act, enacted in 2010, directed the VA to pay for veterans’ emergency treatment at non-VA facilities unless the veteran has another form of insurance that entirely covers their medical costs. Since 2010, the VA has denied thousands of claims because a veteran’s other insurance partially paid for their treatment, leaving veterans to cover the difference for costly emergency care. The U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims ruled on April 16, 2016, that the VA’s interpretation of its responsibility for non-VA emergency treatment was wrong and ordered the VA to begin paying these claims. Despite that, the VA has chosen not to pay veterans who filed before the 2016 court ruling. The VA released its new policy regarding payment or reimbursement for emergency treatment at private hospitals on January 9, 2018. The VA will only pay for new claims or those not decided prior to April 16, 2016. The letter was also signed by Senators Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Steve Daines (R-Mont.) also signed the letter to Secretary Shulkin. The Senators’ letter to Secretary Shulkin can be read online HERE. # # #
02.12.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor about the Secure and Succeed Act, a bill introduced by Senator Tillis that will strengthen border security, provide a permanent solution for DACA, reform family sponsorship policy, and reallocate the Diversity Visa lottery. CLICK HERE to watch the video. Senator Tillis on the Secure and Succeed Act:“The Secure and Succeed Act is a well-structured, four pillar solution that has been very much instructed by conversations with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle and that the President will support. And I know the President can convince our colleagues in the House to get it to his desk.” Senator Tillis on the need to pass immigration reform:“Now is the time to act. Let’s do something different and actually produce a result. Let’s not talk about it and say we all tried, let’s produce a result and provide certainty for the DACA population waiting for us to act, secure our border, and modernize our broken immigration system.” # # #
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in favor of the Senate’s two-year budget agreement that provides increased defense funding and $125 million in additional funding for North Carolina’s Hurricane Matthew relief efforts. Senator Tillis worked with Senator Burr and the entire North Carolina’s Congressional delegation to ensure North Carolina was included in the additional disaster funds appropriated that will go towards helping local communities recover from the destruction caused by Hurricane Matthew. The funding agreement appropriates nearly $90 billion dollars for disaster relief funds, including the $125 million for North Carolina, to assist communities in Puerto Rico, Texas, Florida, and others recovering from natural disasters. The agreement increases defense funding by $80 billion in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 and $85 billion in FY 2019, and gives our Armed Forces the certainty and resources they need to keep our country safe. Earlier this week, Senator Tillis joined a bipartisan group of 66 other senators in urging Senate leadership to immediately reauthorize funding for community health centers, which provide access to cost-effective primary and preventive care for families across the country. The agreement extends and increases Community Health Center funding for 2 years. Lastly, the funding agreement permanently repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) established under Obamacare. Senator Tillis previously introduced the Protecting Seniors' Access to Medicare Act of 2017, legislation that would have repealed the IPAB, an unelected and unaccountable board of political appointees tasked with making cuts to Medicare that could reduce access to care and limit beneficiaries’ choice. “This two-year funding agreement gives North Carolina $125 million in additional funds as we continue to recover from the devastation of Hurricane Matthew and will provide our men and women in uniform the resources they need to rebuild our military and protect our nation against the increasing threats across the world,” said Senator Tillis. “While neither side got everything they wanted, this compromise provides critical funding that will go towards improving the VA, CHIP, the opioid epidemic, and infrastructure spending. I look forward to now working with my colleagues on a solution for DACA, border security and immigration policy.” The funding agreement also includes the following provisions: $4 billion for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to clear their maintenance backlog and provide quality facilities for America’s veterans. $6 billion over two years to combat the opioid addiction and substance abuse epidemic across the country through funding new grants, prevention programs, and law enforcement efforts in vulnerable communities. $20 billion to invest in America’s infrastructure. Lifts the debt limit until March 1, 2019. 4 additional years of funding for the critical CHIP program. This is in addition to the 6 year addition included the previous Continuing Resolution, bringing funding for CHIP until 2028. # # #
02.08.2018	This week, in recognition of Black History Month, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced bipartisan legislation to overturn an outdated, biased policy and provide 1890s Land-Grant Universities, including North Carolina A&T State University, with the same financial flexibility currently enjoyed by their peers. The Carryover Equity Act would fix a provision that prohibits 1890s Land-Grant Universities – all of which are Historically Black Universities – from carrying over more than 20 percent of their equity from one fiscal year to the next. This arbitrary provision limits the ability of these Universities to use their funds as they see fit and notably diverges from policies that govern other similar Department of Agriculture programs. The legislation would benefit 19 institutions, including North Carolina A&T State University, the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, Fort Valley State University, Central State University, South Carolina State University, Delaware State University, Virginia State University, and West Virginia State University. In addition to Senator Tillis, this bipartisan legislation was introduced by Senators Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), David Perdue (R-GA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Lindsay Graham (R-SC), Chris Coons (D-DE), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Ben Cardin (D-MD), and Joe Manchin (D-WV). Text of the bill can be found here. “Despite being faced with senseless financial limitations, North Carolina A&T State University has made invaluable contributions that have helped North Carolina build one of the most advanced extension services in the country,” said Senator Tillis. “The Carryover Equity Act will eliminate unnecessary restrictions and allow land-grant universities like North Carolina A&T to gain the financial flexibility they need to continue advancing their programs through long-term investment and project development.” “The Carryover Equity Act will support the communities and stakeholders who rely on North Carolina A&T Cooperative Extension for critically important services in 101 extension centers across the state,” said Harold L. Martin Sr., chancellor of North Carolina A&T State University. “We look forward to expanding the land-grant outreach opportunities the passage of this bill will allow.” “The University of Maryland Eastern Shore, and Historically Black Land-Grant Universities across the country, educate our students in fields ranging from innovative agricultural practices to advanced engineering,” said Senator Van Hollen. “Ensuring they have the financial flexibility they need to complete their mission is crucial. That’s why I’m proud to introduce this legislation, which will allow these Universities to take full advantage of the funding they receive and provide them the flexibility to use it as needed. I appreciate the strong bipartisan support behind this legislation, and I hope we can move forward to pass it immediately.” “These land grants were established to provide additional research and extension activities,” said Senator Perdue. “Agriculture extension services are results driven and directly contribute to America’s agriculture industry be the most competitive in the world. Allowing schools like Fort Valley State in Georgia to carry over unused grant funds from year to year, will provide them with more certainty when making long-term budgeting decisions.” “Land-grant institutions like Central State play an important role in educating students and contributing to Ohio’s agriculture and food science industries,” said Senator Brown. “These universities deserve the flexibility to use their funding in a way that promotes research and encourages continued success for their students. I’m glad to support this bipartisan legislation.” # # #
02.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr announced that the Senate’s two-year budget agreement will allow North Carolina to be eligible for more than $125 million in additional federal assistance for North Carolina’s long-term Hurricane Matthew recovery efforts. The budget agreement provides roughly $100 million in the form of Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) funding, which supports family and community needs, including housing, infrastructure, and jobs. The funding is critical for Eastern North Carolina’s long-term recovery efforts. The agreement also provides roughly $25.5 million in additional Federal Highway Administration funds for the repair and reconstruction of roads that were damaged by Hurricane Matthew and the subsequent flooding. This additional CDBG-DR funding adds to the $236,500,000 that the NC Congressional Delegation has secured in past spending bills. Immediately following Hurricane Matthew, $198.5 million was allocated in the December 9, 2016 Continuing Resolution and the remaining $37.96 million was authorized in the May 5, 2017 Continuing Resolution and allocated in two separate tranches: $6,114,000 in May 2017 and $31,862,000 in July 2017. “In 2016, North Carolina was devastated by Hurricane Matthew, causing billions of dollars of damages and forcing many families across Eastern North Carolina from their homes,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Since then, Senator Burr and I have worked in lockstep with North Carolina’s Congressional delegation to ensure North Carolina was not forgotten. The additional $125 million will go a long way in helping our local communities recover from the destruction caused by Hurricane Matthew. We are grateful for Senate leaders and appropriators for recognizing that recovery efforts do not end when first responders leave and that a multi-year recovery process requires continued federal assistance.” “This funding represents another step in our ongoing effort to rebuild parts of North Carolina devastated by Hurricane Matthew,” said Senator Richard Burr. “In addition to the money already provided for disaster relief, this budget agreement includes money that will allow the state and affected communities to not only rebuild, but undertake mitigation projects to take proactive steps to lessen the effects of future storms. I, along with Senator Tillis, remain committed to ensuring North Carolina has the resources it needs and I look forward to the President signing this legislation.” # # #
02.07.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke at a joint press conference in the U.S. Capitol to unveil a resolution led by U.S. Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Joni Ernst (R-IA) to establish a special committee in the Senate to investigate the U.S. Olympic Committee (USOC) and USA Gymnastics regarding how team doctor Larry Nassar was allowed to sexually abuse female gymnasts over decades. CLICK HERE to watch the video (Senator Tillis speaks at 11:30).“I want to thank Senators Ernst and Shaheen for leading this important effort,” said Senator Tillis. “When we think of the U.S. Olympic team, we think of our country’s greatest athletes competing and representing the United States, but we must ensure they are protected to the fullest extent. The U.S. Olympic Committee clearly showed a lapse in judgement in not protecting the female gymnasts who were abused by Larry Nasser, and we should do everything in our power to investigate the USOC to ensure people are held accountable so this never happens again.” “There’s now significant bipartisan support for establishing a special committee charged with the sole focus of investigating the U.S. Olympic Committee and USA Gymnastics,” said Shaheen. “There are many disturbing questions that remain unanswered as to how Larry Nassar was able to freely abuse young girls for decades. Because the U.S. Olympic Committee operates under a federal charter and its athletes compete under the American flag, the Senate has a responsibility to deliver answers and accountability. Today, Senator Ernst and I are urging Senate leadership to take up this legislation so that this special committee can begin this urgent work.” “We are introducing this bipartisan resolution to establish a special committee entirely focused on investigating how this abuse was allowed to go on for decades, why leaders of the USOC and USA Gymnastics failed to protect these women, and the path forward to put an end to this type of outrageous abuse,” said Ernst. “I’m so proud of the courageous young athletes who stood up and fought to ensure Larry Nassar can never lay his hands on another athlete. Now Congress has an opportunity to stand up for the brave survivors who came forward, for our athletes, for our children. I am proud to stand with Senator Shaheen and our colleagues to fight to stop this abuse once and for all.” The text of the resolution can be read here. The resolution is also cosponsored by Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Steve Daines (R-MT), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Tim Scott (R-SC), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Richard Burr (R-NC), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Tina Smith (D-MN). It also has the endorsement of the National Alliance to End Sexual Violence. Specifically, the resolution establishes a special committee of the Senate that is tasked with: Investigating the USOC and national sports governing bodies, including USA Gymnastics, and determining the extent to which these organizations were complicit in the criminal or negligent behavior of their employees relative to sexual abuse; Identifying and recommending solutions to the systemic failures at the USOC and national sports governing bodies, including USA Gymnastics, that allowed for pervasive sexual abuse to continue for decades; Identifying actions that must be taken by the USOC and national sports governing bodies, including USA Gymnastics, to ensure increased transparency and protections for children, athletes and their families; and Making findings and recommendations on any additional actions that may be necessary to hold the USOC and USA Gymnastics accountable. # # #
02.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Angus King (I-ME) introduced the VA Senior Executive Accountability (SEA) Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation that would strengthen accountability of senior executives at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). There are numerous instances within the VA where Senior Executive Service (SES) employees used their leadership positions as leverage to be reassigned to another position for their own personal gain, or were reassigned, rather than disciplined, for poor performance. Following exposure of this practice, the VA halted their Appraised Value Offer (AVO) program, a program used to move senior executives that was often costly to taxpayers. Despite its past scandals, the VA has recently reinstated the AVO program. The VA Senior Executive Accountability Act will improve transparency by requiring the VA to inform Congress about where senior executives are being moved. Further, this legislation would require the secretary to personally approve of a reassignment of the VA’s approximately 350 SES employees and submit a semiannual report to Congress detailing the reason as to why the employees were reassigned and the associated costs. “Senior VA executives should not be using their positions for personal gain nor should the VA be using reassignments in place of disciplinary action or firing senior executives who have acted improperly,” said Senator Tillis. “The VA Senior Executive Accountability Act is a bipartisan effort to address these problems by improving transparency and accountability within the VA and ensuring our veterans are being provided the best people to give them the care they need and deserve.” “The VA plays a crucial role in the lives of veterans who have sacrificed so much to protect our nation,” said Senator King. “Unfortunately, there have been several instances in recent years where VA executives have fallen short of their duties to the vets they were meant to serve. Senator Tillis and I hope this legislation will improve the VA’s transparency when moving senior executives – and by improving transparency, the VA can continue to help ensure our nation’s veterans receive the best possible care.” Companion legislation, H.R. 2772, was introduced by Congressman Scott Taylor (R-VA-02) and unanimously passed the House of Representatives on July 28, 2017. # # #
02.06.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of 66 other senators in urging Senate leadership to immediately reauthorize funding for community health centers, which provide access to cost-effective primary and preventive care for families across the country. “Community health centers serve a vital function, providing affordable health care to our nation’s most vulnerable citizens,” wrote the senators. “They provide quality medical, dental, vision and behavioral health care to more than 27 million patients, including 330,000 of our nation’s veterans and 8 million children, at over 10,000 sites nationwide. … Without extension of the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF), community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and approximately 9 million Americans losing access to their health care.” The Community Health Center Fund (CHCF) expired on September 30, 2017. Lack of reauthorization has jeopardized access to care for millions of Americans, and made it difficult for community health centers to adequately plan for everything from staffing needs to securing loans for capital projects. In addition to Tillis, senators signing the letter include Roy Blunt (R-MO), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (R-NJ), John Boozman (R-AR), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Tom Carper (D-DE), Bob Casey (D-PA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Dean Heller (R-NV), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), John Hoeven (R-ND), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Doug Jones (D-AL), Tim Kaine (D-VA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Ed Markey (D-MA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Gary Peters (D-MI), Rob Portman (R-OH), Jack Reed (D-RI), James Risch (R-ID), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tina Smith (D-MN), Jon Tester (D-MT), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tom Udall (D-NM), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mark Warner (D-VA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). Text of the letter is below. Dear Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer: We write to express our concern over funding for community health centers, which expired on September 30, 2017. We strongly urge you to reauthorize this funding immediately. Community health centers serve a vital function, providing affordable health care to our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. They provide quality medical, dental, vision and behavioral health care to more than 27 million patients, including 330,000 of our nation’s veterans and 8 million children, at over 10,000 sites nationwide. By offering preventative care, treating chronic conditions, and working to fight the opioid epidemic, community health centers are not only greatly improving the health and well-being of those they serve, they are also saving significant taxpayer dollars. Without extension of the Community Health Center Fund (CHCF), community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and approximately 9 million Americans losing access to their health care. Moreover, community health centers operate as small businesses and require a level of predictability to operate and respond to the needs of their communities. Since the expiration of the CHCF, community health centers have not been able to adequately plan for everything from staffing needs to securing loans for capital projects. In addition, the expiration of the National Health Service Corps and Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education program threatens the ability of health centers to meet their workforce needs. For more than fifty years, community health centers have experienced strong bipartisan support. In fact, twenty bipartisan senators cosponsor legislation which reauthorizes funding not only for community health centers but also for the National Health Service Corps. We look forward to working with you to reach a bipartisan agreement to fund the community health center program and enable our community health centers to continue providing high quality and affordable care to those in need. ###
02.02.2018	This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) signed a bipartisan letter to the President requesting an increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research in his fiscal year (FY) 2019 budget request. “Alzheimer’s is one of our nation’s leading causes of death and it is the only one of our nation’s deadliest diseases without an effective means of prevention, treatment, or cure,” the senators wrote. “If nothing is done to change the trajectory of Alzheimer’s, the number of Americans afflicted with the disease is expected to more than triple by 2050.” “Federal funding for Alzheimer’s research is a wise investment,” the senators continued. “We urge you to support efforts to meet the research investment objective set forth in the National Plan by boosting the current investment in Alzheimer’s research in the fiscal year 2019 budget request.” The letter was also signed by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), John Hoeven (R-ND), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), John Boozman (R-AR), Ed Markey (D-MA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Mark Warner (D-VA), Todd Young (R-IN), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Angus King (I-ME), and Bob Casey (D-PA). The full text of the Senators’ letter to the President follows: The PresidentThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: Alzheimer’s is a devastating disease that exacts a tremendous personal and economic toll on the individual, the family, and our society. In addition to the human suffering it causes, Alzheimer’s is our nation’s most expensive disease, costing the United States more than $259 billion a year, including $175 billion in costs to Medicare and Medicaid. These costs will skyrocket as the baby boom generation ages. Alzheimer’s is also one of our nation’s leading causes of death. It is the only one of our nation’s deadliest diseases without an effective means of prevention, treatment, or cure. If nothing is done to change the trajectory of Alzheimer’s, the number of Americans afflicted with the disease is expected to more than triple by 2050. Already our nation’s costliest disease, Alzheimer’s is projected to cost our country up to $1.1 trillion by 2050. At a time when the United States is spending more than $200 billion a year to care for Alzheimer’s patients, we are spending less than two thirds of one percent of that amount on research. Although we have made progress in increasing funding, Alzheimer’s research funding remains disproportionately low compared to its human and economic toll. Indeed, similarly deadly diseases receive annual funding of $2 billion, $3 billion, and even $6 billion for research, which has paid dividends. Given the tremendous human and economic price of this devastating disease, we can do more for Alzheimer’s. Investments in research for other diseases have yielded tremendous results: patients have access to new treatments, and death rates for some diseases are decreasing. Yet, at the same time, mortality due to Alzheimer’s is escalating dramatically. Fortunately, there is promising research that holds hope for Alzheimer’s patients and their families. The research community is poised to make important advances through clinical trials and investigating new therapeutic targets, but adequate funding is critical to advance this research. The National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease, which was authorized by the bipartisan 2010 National Alzheimer’s Project Act, has as its primary goal to “prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer’s disease by 2025.” To meet that goal, the Chairman of the Advisory Council created by the legislation says that we will need to devote $2 billion a year to Alzheimer’s research. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017 took a major step forward by providing a $428 million increase for Alzheimer’s disease including Alzheimer’s Disease Related Dementias research funding, the largest increase for Alzheimer’s research funding in history. Congress has recently taken additional steps to fight Alzheimer's with the enactment of the 21st Century Cures Act, which provides additional funding for the BRAIN Initiative and creates the breakthrough EUREKA prize competition to address pressing diseases, including Alzheimer's. These are critical achievements, but we need to do more. Federal funding for Alzheimer’s research is a wise investment. We urge you to support efforts to meet the research investment objective set forth in the National Plan by boosting the current investment in Alzheimer’s research in the fiscal year 2019 budget request. We remain committed to finding a way to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer’s by 2025, and we look forward to working with you to meet that goal. # # #
01.31.2018	This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), along with 35 of his colleagues, sent a letter to President Trump highlighting the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to the United States and outlining how President Trump can improve the agreement. “NAFTA supports 14 million jobs, representing thousands of jobs in each of the 50 states,” the senators wrote. "Despite all of its benefits, however, we can do better and there are opportunities to improve the agreement. Modernizing NAFTA to increase market access, expand energy exports to maximize domestic energy production and including provisions on intellectual property and e-commerce will make this agreement even more beneficial to the United States.” In addition to Tillis, the letter was signed by Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO), Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Rand Paul (R-Ky.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), John Thune (R-S.D.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), and Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). Full text of the letter: Mr. President: We write today to reaffirm the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and congratulate you on efforts to modernize the agreement and put America first. You have the opportunity to unleash the American economy like no President has done before and fuel historic growth. NAFTA has driven U.S. trade with Canada and Mexico to approximately $1.3 trillion annually. Whether manufacturers, farmers, or insurance providers, a wide range of industries in the U.S. have benefitted from this agreement and American consumers are reaping those benefits, too. Canadians and Mexicans buy nearly $500 billion worth of U.S. manufactured goods each year, translating to $37,000 in export revenue for every American factory worker, and U.S. agricultural exports to the two countries have quadrupled under the agreement from $8.9 billion in 1993 to $38.1 billion in 2016. NAFTA supports 14 million jobs, representing thousands of jobs in each of the 50 states. Despite all of its benefits, however, we can do better and there are opportunities to improve the agreement. Modernizing NAFTA to increase market access, expand energy exports to maximize domestic energy production and including provisions on intellectual property and e-commerce will make this agreement even more beneficial to the United States. Mr. President, your leadership has jump-started our economy. The recent tax reform bill is already leading to economic success across all industries and the stock market is at record highs. The next step to advance the economy requires that we keep NAFTA in place, but modernize it to better reflect our 21st century economy. We look forward to working with you and your Administration to make that modernization a reality and bring Americans even greater economic success. # # #
01.30.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued a video response to President Trump’s State of the Union Address and the ambitious legislative agenda he laid out.CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Tillis on the President’s call to pass immigration reform:“I was encouraged to hear President Trump speak about immigration and challenging Congress to fix a problem that has existed for decades. “The White House released an immigration framework last week, and I believe it is a reasonable proposal. The framework offers solutions supported by both parties and the American people. Securing our borders, providing long-term certainty for DACA-eligible youth, and transforming our legal immigration system. “Last year, I introduced the SUCCEED Act, a fair, merit-based solution that allows the DACA-eligible population to earn and keep legal status as long as they work hard, get an education, give back to society, pay their taxes, and follow the law. “Since I introduced the SUCCEED Act I’ve been working with Republican and Democrat Senators to produce a solution that encompasses border security and a long-term solution for the DACA-eligible population. Under the President’s leadership, I believe we are getting closer every day to reaching a deal. “It is time for Congress to take up the President’s challenge. We must come together in a bipartisan fashion and finally pass a responsible and compassionate bill.” Tillis on the economic progress over the past year:“Under President Trump’s leadership, we have made great progress in realizing the economic potential of the United States. Sweeping regulatory reform has eliminated job-killing regulatory burdens and tax cuts have provided relief to working families and businesses. “The tax cut will leave more of your hard-earned money in your pocket, not the government’s. By doubling the standard deduction and lowering the tax brackets, American families will get the tax relief they have long waited for. “During President Trump’s first year in office, Americans are getting back to work and the economy is on the rise. Unemployment is at a 17-year low, with nearly two million jobs created. The stock market is up 36%, and consumer confidence remains at historically high levels. “American families are once again on track to realizing our economic potential and American companies are globally competitive again. Over the past month, businesses have announced bonuses and pay increases for millions of Americans and they plan to invest billions of dollars in the American economy. “Although some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are downplaying these effects, these announcements were not a coincidence: they were a direct result of the President’s leadership and Congress’s actions.” ###
01.26.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) introduced bipartisan legislation that would strengthen financial markets by reducing the risk of companies contemplating going public. The Encouraging Public Offerings Act of 2018 would encourage capital formation by making initial public offerings (IPOs) more attractive.“IPOs give companies crucial access to our capital markets, and yield the potential to create thousands of jobs. When private companies consider going public, we should be doing everything possible to make this process easy and to encourage it, without jeopardizing investor protections,” said Senator Tillis. “It’s imperative that Americans have the opportunity to invest their savings and retirement funds wisely, and having more IPOs is important in helping folks save for retirement. This bipartisan legislation will reduce unnecessary red-tape and encourage these companies to continue to grow.”“Many emerging businesses find that the process of going public is too complex and expensive. This legislation creates a streamlined process for startups that provides the flexibility they need to grow and prosper,” said Senator Van Hollen. “The Encouraging Public Offerings Act will help spur innovation and improve efficiency in the market, bringing more opportunity for businesses to grow across the country and throughout Maryland. I’m pleased to join Senator Tillis in introducing this common-sense legislation to help small businesses thrive.”Companion legislation, H.R. 3903, unanimously passed the House of Representatives on November 1, 2017.Background:The Encouraging Public Offerings Act of 2018 expands certain provisions of Title I of the JOBS Act, which previously only applied to Emerging Growth Companies, to apply to all public companies. Specifically, the legislation allows issuers to submit to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for confidential review before publicly filing draft registration statements for IPOs and for follow-on offerings within one year of an IPO. Additionally, the bill allows all companies to meet with qualified institutional buyers and other institutional accredited investors prior to an offering to gauge those investors’ interest in the offering. # # #
01.26.2018	This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) signed a bipartisan letter expressing support for a proposal from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that would help increase the transparency and accuracy of prescription drug costs in Medicare Part D. “Pharmacy price concessions account for real differences between the listed prices of prescription drugs and those drugs’ final, actual costs,” the senators wrote in a letter to CMS Administrator Seema Verma. “By requiring that all of these pharmacy price concessions be reflected in the negotiated price at the point of sale, CMS’s proposal will help increase the transparency and accuracy of prescription drug costs in Medicare Part D, and help significantly lower American seniors’ out of pocket drug costs.” A current lack of transparency in pharmacy price concessions in Medicare Part D often negatively affect beneficiaries, lead to higher costs for seniors, and create uncertainty for the community pharmacies who serve them. “Thanks to the strong leadership of Senators Capito and Tester, a bipartisan coalition of senators has endorsed CMS’ fix for the problem of retroactive pharmacy DIR fees,” said National Community Pharmacists Association CEO B. Douglas Hoey, Pharmacist, MBA. ”Patients, taxpayers, and pharmacies will all benefit from the agency’s transparent, common-sense proposal.” Others signing yesterday’s letter include: U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-Ark.), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-La.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), John Kennedy (R-La.), Angus King (I-Maine), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), John Thune (R-S.D.), and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.). The full letter is available below. Dear Administrator Verma: We write to express our support for the proposal related to pharmacy price concessions in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Service’s (CMS) proposed rule for the 2019 Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit program. Pharmacy price concessions account for real differences between the listed prices of prescription drugs and those drugs’ final, actual costs. By requiring that all of these pharmacy price concessions be reflected in the negotiated price at the point of sale, CMS’s proposal will help increase the transparency and accuracy of prescription drug costs in Medicare Part D, and help significantly lower American seniors’ out of pocket drug costs. In June 2016, a bipartisan group of Senators raised concerns with the current lack of transparency in pharmacy price concessions in Medicare Part D. In the letter, the Senators noted the impact these concessions had on beneficiaries’ cost sharing, federal reinsurance payments, and additional cost-sharing assistance for low-income beneficiaries. Many of these same Senators have also proposed legislation to bring greater transparency to pharmacy price concessions, lower seniors’ out of pocket costs, and bring certainty to the community pharmacies who serve them. We thank CMS for hearing these concerns and taking concrete steps to address them. We are particularly pleased that the proposal would effectively prohibit retroactive pharmacy Direct and Indirect Remuneration (DIR) fees. Part D plan sponsors, often through their pharmacy benefit managers, claw these price concessions back from pharmacies well after they have already sold and dispensed the drugs. These claw backs sometimes occur as much as six months after Medicare beneficiaries fill their prescriptions. We have heard from numerous pharmacies in our communities—many of which are rural or medically underserved—that these claw back fees cause so much uncertainty that they do not know if they can continue to serve American families. They do not know when the fees will be collected, how large a fee they will have to pay, and if the final amount they are paid will actually cover the cost of dispensing the drugs. This sort of opacity in the real cost of prescription drugs and the method of paying for them is exactly why Americans are so frustrated when they try to fill a prescription. While CMS’s proposal will provide much needed certainty to the community pharmacists who serve American seniors, it will also reduce Medicare beneficiaries’ out of pocket drug costs. CMS has noted that this proposal would reduce total beneficiary drug costs by $10.4 billion. Seniors should no longer have to bear the burden of artificially inflated drug prices when they go the pharmacy counter. This proposal will help reduce the financial strain on seniors with fixed incomes and protect them from exposure to the Part D coverage donut hole. For these vital reasons, we encourage CMS to adopt its proposal on pharmacy price concessions. We thank you for hearing concerns about the negative impacts of concessions like retroactive DIR fees, and look forward to the implementation of the proposed changes to address these concerns. # # #
01.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the White House issued its immigration framework: “I applaud the President for releasing a realistic framework that meets the four immigration pillars agreed to by both Republican and Democratic leaders earlier this month. “The framework proposes solutions supported by both parties and the American people: securing our borders, providing long-term certainty for DACA-eligible youth, and making our immigration system more merit-based. “Congress needs to get this done for the good of our nation.” ###
01.24.2018	This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Gary Peters (D-MI) on a bipartisan call to fund the testing and development of connected and self-driving cars as part of any government spending deal that is negotiated for 2018. The Senators made their request in a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing, Urban Development, and Related Agencies, Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Jack Reed (D-RI), respectively. U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Bill Nelson (D-FL) also signed the letter. “Connected and automated vehicles are being developed internationally, and we risk the erosion of our leadership position if we do not take steps to facilitate the continued advancement of these technologies in the United States,” wrote the Senators. “USDOT [United States Department of Transportation], recognizing this urgent need, last year solicited proposals from facilities across the country to be designated as Automated Vehicle Proving Grounds. After evaluating more than 60 applicants under a rigorous and detailed set of selection criteria, USDOT chose ten proving grounds [including the American Center for Mobility at Willow Run.] “Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now be given the resources to use these facilities to their maximum potential and pave the way for the safe deployment of these technologies,” the Senators continued. “We therefore urge robust funding for research and development of CAV [connected and automated vehicle] technologies. Furthermore, USDOT should be directed to use such funds for safety research and testing at the USDOT-designated proving grounds.” The American Center for Mobility, located at the former Willow Run Site in Ypsilanti Township, is a purpose-built facility designed for research, education, testing, standards-convening, product development, validation and self-certification for connected and automated technologies as well as future mobility. January 18, 2018 The Honorable Susan CollinsChairAppropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related AgenciesSenate Committee on Appropriations184 Dirksen Senate Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Jack ReedRanking MemberAppropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related AgenciesSenate Committee on Appropriations125 Hart Senate Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 2051Dear Chairman Collins and Ranking Member Reed: As you move toward conclusion of the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) appropriations process, we write to express our strong support for robust funding for the testing and development of connected and automated vehicle (CAV) technology at the proving grounds officially designated by the Department of Transportation (USDOT). The auto industry is in the midst of a seismic technological shift that will revolutionize the transportation of people and goods in our lifetime. Connected and self-driving cars can dramatically reduce the more than 37,000 lives lost on our roads and highways every year and fundamentally transform the way we get around. Ensuring that American innovators can safely develop and implement this technology will not only save lives but also solidify our nation’s position as the world leader in the future of mobility. Connected and automated vehicles are being developed internationally, and we risk the erosion of our leadership position if we do not take steps to facilitate the continued advancement of these technologies in the United States. It is critical that the Federal government play a leadership role in ensuring that CAV technologies are safely developed and tested. USDOT, recognizing this urgent need, last year solicited proposals from facilities across the country to be designated as Automated Vehicle Proving Grounds. The intent was to form an initial network of proving grounds focused on the advancement of automated vehicle technology. After evaluating more than 60 applicants under a rigorous and detailed set of selection criteria, USDOT chose ten proving grounds. Together, those facilities collectively form a federal Community of Practice around the safe testing and deployment of CAV and related data technologies. Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now be given the resources to use these facilities to their maximum potential and pave the way for the safe deployment of these technologies. We therefore urge robust funding for research and development of CAV technologies. Furthermore, USDOT should be directed to use such funds for safety research and testing at the USDOT-designated proving grounds. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you to advance the development of this lifesaving technology. ###
01.23.2018	United States Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) recently announced they were successful in urging the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to reconsider a decision that would have caused lower-income military retirees to lose federal retirement benefits. In response to an October 2017 Tillis-Warren letter to the IRS, Acting IRS Commissioner David J. Kautter stated that the agency had re-analyzed its data and would change its decision "in line with your request." "Military retirees who have dedicated their lives to protecting our country should not be subjected to a more rigorous standard than their federal civilian retiree counterparts," said Senator Tillis. "I applaud the IRS for reversing a decision they made last year that would have put these brave men and women at risk, and I will continue to advocate on their behalf as long as I am in Congress." "Most military retirees have spent 20 years or more serving their country - the IRS shouldn't be withholding the retirement benefits they've earned and need just to get by," said Senator Warren. "I'm glad the IRS agreed to protect these veterans in response to our bipartisan letter, and I'll continue to look for ways to partner with my colleagues to make Washington work better for veterans and working families." The senators initially wrote to then-IRS Commissioner John Koskinen in October of 2017, explaining that "the IRS recently expanded its application of the Federal Payment Levy Program (FPLP) to include military payments." By expanding the FPLP in that manner, the IRS could "impose a levy on retirement payments to veterans in an effort to recoup back taxes." But unlike its application of the FPLP to other federal benefits, the IRS did not apply a low-income filter to exempt military retirees who would suffer economic hardship from having their payments levied. The senators argued that the IRS should apply the low-income filter to military retirees - the same way the IRS applies the filter to lower-income Americans receiving Social Security benefits - so that lower-income military retirees are not denied critical benefits they need to stay afloat financially. In the response to Senators Tillis and Warren, Acting Commissioner Kautter noted that "based on a re-analysis of our data, the number of military retirees who would qualify to be excluded from the FPLP based on the low-income filter is high enough that we will move to apply the low-income filter to all military retiree payments as soon as we can." Acting Commissioner Kautter projected that the change would be implemented in early Fall of 2018. Based on data provided by the IRS, more than 10% of military retirees subject to the FPLP in recent months will have their retirement benefits protected by application of the low-income filter. To read the IRS' response, click here. ###
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after Senate Democrats forced a shutdown of the federal government: “Tonight, I voted with nearly every single Senate Republican to keep our government open and fund our servicemembers, veterans, seniors, and children who depend on CHIP. “Unfortunately, nearly every single Senate Democrat, led by Senators Schumer and Durbin, have been determined to shut down the government, and they got what they wanted. Their cynical, partisan political ploy will have real-world consequences for hardworking families in North Carolina and across our nation. “One of the most egregious parts of the Democrats’ shutdown is their counterproductive demands on immigration policy. “Since last year, I’ve been working on a solution that would provide long-term certainty for DACA recipients and effectively secure our borders once and for all. Even though we’re closer than ever to a deal and Congress has until March 5th to provide a solution for DACA youth, Democrats instead chose to create an arbitrary deadline to justify their decision to shut down the government. Their shutdown will not be helpful in getting a bipartisan deal to the President’s desk. “The only way this shutdown will end is if my Democratic colleagues will come to their senses and stop trying to score political points at the expense of the American people. I hope they will soon.” ###
01.19.2018	TILLIS: “Democrats are justifying their support of a shutdown by creating arbitrary deadlines and demanding an immediate vote on the ‘Gang of Six’ immigration bill. It’s a disingenuous partisan political stunt considering they know full well that a vote would fail in both chambers, a result that would make a successful deal even harder to achieve moving forward. It’s even more disingenuous since they haven’t even introduced the bill or legislative text yet. It’s impossible to vote on a bill that doesn’t exist…. All members should look in a mirror and ask themselves if they’re in Congress to make a point or to make a difference. If they truly want to make a difference, they should stop their saber rattling, vote to fund the government, and then roll up their sleeves and get to work on bipartisan solutions. If they’re just here to make a point, they should quit their day job and become a cable news contributor.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “A government shutdown would be a disaster for our nation, harming seniors, veterans, our brave men and women in uniform, and children who depend on CHIP. “Let’s be clear: nearly every single Republicans is voting to keep the government open. Any Republican who would consider voting for a shutdown would be voting to stop President Trump’s agenda dead in its tracks. There’s nothing conservative about that. “Democrats are justifying their support for a shutdown by creating arbitrary deadlines and demanding an immediate vote on the ‘Gang of Six’ immigration bill. It’s a disingenuous partisan political stunt considering they know full well that a vote would fail in both chambers, a result that would make a successful deal even harder to achieve moving forward. It’s even more disingenuous since they haven’t even introduced the bill or legislative text yet. It’s impossible to vote on a bill that doesn’t exist. “Funding the government and protecting the American people who need help the most should be a higher priority than participating in partisan political stunts. “All members should look in a mirror and ask themselves if they’re in Congress to make a point or to make a difference. If they truly want to make a difference, they should stop their saber rattling, vote to fund the government, and then roll up their sleeves and get to work on bipartisan solutions. If they’re just here to make a point, they should quit their day job and become a cable news contributor.” Last night, Senator Tillis also delivered a Senate floor speech on the consequences of a government shutdown. You can view his remarks by clicking here. ###
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and James Lankford (R-OK) issued the following joint statement on the “Gang of Six” legislation: “Any successful immigration deal must be a balanced compromise that both provides a long-term solution for DACA youth and effectively secures our borders. Simply put, it needs to permanently fix both problems. As we have said from the beginning, any successful deal also needs buy-in from the White House. Unfortunately, the ‘Gang of Six’ proposal falls short since it fails to include even basic border security reforms. “Threatening a government shutdown or demanding a vote on a bill that is doomed to fail is counterproductive. It is also unfair to give false hope to the many DACA recipients waiting on Congress to finally enact legislation. “We introduced the SUCCEED Act to offer a vision of what a fair and merit-based solution for DACA youth could look like, with the full expectation it would have to be paired with effective border security, personnel, and technology in order to become law. While the ‘Gang of Six’ proposal doesn’t meet those parameters and doesn’t have the support of the White House, we still believe that we’re closer to a deal than we’ve ever been, and we are ready to work with anyone, Republican or Democrat, to get this done. It’s time for elected officials from both parties to work together and negotiate in good faith so that we can provide certainty to our immigration system and security to our nation.” ###
01.15.2018	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement to commemorate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “I join my fellow North Carolinians in honoring the life and legacy of Dr. Marin Luther King, Jr., a patriot whose enormous contributions and sacrifices made America a more free, just and equitable nation.” ###
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced the Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation that would protect veterans from targeted predatory home loan practices by requiring lenders to demonstrate a material benefit to consumers when refinancing their mortgage. Senators Dean Heller (R-NV), Jon Tester (D-MT), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Richard Burr (R-NC), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Joe Donnelly (D-IN) are all original co-sponsors of the legislation. CLICK HERE to watch a video of Senators Tillis and Warren discussing the bipartisan legislation. The Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA) home loan program was designed to provide veterans and servicemembers with the opportunity to purchase their own home through a VA insured mortgage from a private lender. VA loans have lower credit score requirements than other mortgages, and often don’t require down payments. Since its inception, it has insured more than 20 million home loans to help veterans become homeowners. However, today a small number of lenders are abusing the program by utilizing misleading advertising tactics and engaging in a practice known as “churning” – the refinancing of a home loan over and over again to generate fees and profits for lenders at the direct expense of veterans and their families, often without their knowledge. Over a period of time from April of 2016 through August of 2017, over 1,000,000 VA home loans were made, including 50,000 loans in North Carolina alone, and almost half of those were refinanced VA loans. The vast majority of those refinanced loans are being originated by good actors, but this legislation addresses a pool of refinanced VA loans—over 40,000 nationwide and 1,000+ in North Carolina over the aforementioned time period—wherein veterans may have been subjected to abusive lending practices by some in the marketplace who engage in “churning.” “The VA home loan program was designed to give veterans and servicemembers the opportunity to become homeowners as they raise their families and it has proven to be a great success,” said Senator Tillis. “Unfortunately, a few bad actors are taking advantage of the program as home lenders have begun targeting veterans and servicemembers to generate profit and fees at their expense, often leading to higher loan amounts and putting families in a worse financial position than they started off. Our men and women in uniform deserve better, and I am proud to partner with Senator Warren on this bipartisan legislation that will end these predatory home lending practices. I hope Congress will consider this bill quickly so we can protect those who have sacrificed so much to protect us.” “The government shouldn’t be backing lenders who exploit veterans just to line their own pockets. All three of my brothers served in the military and I understand the incredible sacrifices made by those who fight for our country – they deserve better,” said Senator Warren. “I’m glad to work with Senator Tillis to crack down on lenders engaging in predatory practices that hurt veterans, their families, and American taxpayers.” “The VA home loan program has assisted countless military veterans, including those in Nevada, in their pursuit to become homeowners. Recently we’ve learned some lenders are taking advantage of this important program and using veterans in order to earn a quick profit,” said Senator Heller. “I’m proud to cosponsor this bipartisan bill to help protect veterans from predatory lenders. It is my hope that Congress will send a strong message to these bad actors by swiftly approving our bill, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to do just that.” “This bill cracks down on predatory practices and protects veterans,” said Senator Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “I’m pleased to join this bipartisan group of Senators who are sending a clear message that we will not stand by while bad actors attempt to take advantage of veterans. This bill does right by those who have served and I look forward to a timely debate on this issue.” “We owe a lot to our veterans and should be doing everything we can to ensure those who have selflessly served our country receive the support they need. That includes protection from those who are looking to take advantage of them,” said Senator Capito. “This bipartisan legislation will help put an end to predatory home lending practices that threaten our veterans’ financial stability and provide important home loan protections they deserve.” “Our nation’s Veterans and their families have made unimaginable sacrifices to ensure we are able to enjoy the freedoms that we take so much pride in. It is disgraceful that a handful of predatory home lenders are exploiting our nation’s finest to make a profit. I’m proud to join a bipartisan group of Senators to prevent this abuse and better ensure our Veterans the opportunity to own a home,” said Senator Manchin. “The VA home loan program has assisted over 18 million veterans become homeowners since its inception in 1944,” said Senator Burr. “It’s an important benefit that our service members have earned. While the program itself is largely successful, there remain unacceptable cases of predatory lending taking advantage of veterans across the nation. This bill will help prevent such abuses and ensure that those who have served our nation are further protected from misleading loan practices.” “Lenders should not be allowed to pressure or exploit veterans into needlessly refinancing their homes just to make a profit,” said Senator Schatz. “Our bill keeps mortgage lenders honest and protects both veterans and taxpayers.” “Ensuring our nation’s men and women in uniform are supported – not taken advantage of – when they transition back to civilian life is absolutely key in our duty and responsibility to our veterans,” said Senator Sullivan. “As a proud member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I am pleased to join this important and bipartisan cause that will push back against predatory home lenders targeting our nation’s veterans.” “Our nation’s veterans sacrifice so much for our country – we must do everything we can to support them when they come home,” said Senator Van Hollen. “That’s why we must ensure these men and women are not taken advantage of by unethical business practices used to turn a profit by any means necessary. The Protecting Veterans from Predatory Lending Act will safeguard veterans and their families from those who would seek to defraud them. I’m proud to support this legislation and urge my colleagues to move forward on this issue immediately.” “Our service members do so much for us and it should be our responsibility to look out for their well-being whenever possible,” said Senator Scott. “It is simply unconscionable that there are people out there who are willing to take advantage of our men and women who served in uniform for their own financial gains. Many see home ownership as a central component of the American Dream, and incentives like the VA loan program afford our veterans the unique opportunity to reach that sought after goal. Any attempt to tarnish this initiative should be aggressively struck down, and I am glad to join this bipartisan group who have decided to stand up on behalf of our veterans - it is what they have both earned and deserve.” “This common sense legislation would ensure that servicemembers and veterans can continue to obtain affordable mortgages, while putting a stop to a predatory lending practice targeting those who have served our country,” said Senator Donnelly. “I am proud to support this bill led by Senators Tillis and Warren.” The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the US (VFW), and the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) are all supportive of efforts to address this issue. National Commander Denise H. Rohan, The American Legion: “We appreciate the thoughtful approach that Senators Tillis and Warren have taken in addressing the abusive lending practices that are targeting our nation’s veterans. We believe that this is a measured approach, and are encouraged by the bipartisan group that the senators have fostered. We look forward to working with all parties as Congress continues to address this important issue.” Patrick Murray, VFW: “Predatory lenders must not be afforded the opportunity to take advantage of veteran homeowners. The Veterans of Foreign Wars is committed to working with Congress to ensure reasonable protections are put in place to prohibit bad actors from preying upon veterans and thank Senator Tillis for his leadership in addressing this important issue.” ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) appeared on MSNBC with Hallie Jackson to talk about reaching a deal to secure our borders andprovide a solution for the DACA population. Click HERE to watch the interview. On President Trump’s meaning of the “wall”: “President Trump said more than once that he doesn’t view ‘the wall’ as a monolithic structure that goes over 2,000 miles, but instead it is a people, technology, and infrastructure approach. I hope the media recognizes that so we can dispel this myth that we are going to build the Western Hemisphere equivalent of the Great Wall of China.” On President Trump’s desire to reach a deal: “President Trump also said he is willing to negotiate on a number of other things. He said is willing to look to the next phase of immigration reform because we can’t make the DACA/border security deal comprehensive, and that he is willing to work with us to reach a deal. President Trump is worried about finding a long-term solution for the DACA population because he genuinely cares and has a compassionate point of view for them.” On the next phase of immigration reform: “The phase involves coming up with a solution for the remaining illegally present population, guest worker programs, and the next phase of security such as asylum reform. We just cannot try and include these in the current negotiations and go down the path of comprehensive reform because it has failed every time over the last 20 years.” ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, bipartisan legislation co-introduced by U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) that streamlines and eases the burden on the process whereby active-duty military, reservists and veterans apply for their commercial driver’s license was signed into law. “The brave men and women that serve in the U.S. military learn a wide-range of skills applicable to jobs once they enter the civilian workforce, but too often face unnecessary barriers that make it harder for them to find jobs,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation will allow our active-duty military, reservists, and veterans to apply the experience they gained serving our nation in a civilian capacity and not force them to go through a duplicative credentialing process to obtain a commercial driver’s license.” “This bill shows our veterans that after all of their hard work defending our nation, after everything they’ve sacrificed for us, we have their backs,” said Senator Cornyn. “Now that this bill has been signed into law, veterans will be able to more easily transfer the commercial driving skills they’ve honed in the military to civilian life, and therefore more easily find jobs that pair well with their skillset.” The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 was also introduced by U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). Background: The latest surface transportation reauthorization bill, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, directed the Secretary of Transportation to establish a unique, streamlined set of standards for veterans applying for a CDL. The standards exempt veterans from all or a portion of civilian commercial vehicle driving tests if that veteran had experience driving similar vehicles while in the armed forces or reserves. Additionally, the standards allow veterans’ formal military training to count as credit towards the commercial motor vehicles minimum requirements to obtain a license. However, the FAST Act did not include active-duty members of the military and reservists in their application of standards for veterans with previous training in military driving. To correct this, the Department of Transportation (USDOT) granted a two-year exemption allowing states to waive the commercial driver’s licenses knowledge test for current service members, reservists, and national guardsmen if they completed military heavy-training programs and had been regularly employed in a military position requiring the operation of heavy vehicles within the past year prior to their application. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 makes the USDOT’s two-year exemption permanent, providing active-duty service members and reservists the same training and testing standards granted to veterans under the FAST Act.The Senators’ legislation also makes it easier for veterans to receive the DOT-required health examination to hold a commercial driver’s license. The FAST Act contained a provision requiring USDOT and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to collaborate and develop a streamlined and efficient process whereby VA physicians can join the National Registry for Certified Medical Examiners (NRCME). USDOT requires that all CDL holders be examined by physicians certified by the NRCME. Currently, there is an extremely low number of physicians in the VA health system certified by the NRCME, forcing veterans to either travel exorbitant distances to see a CME or pay out of pocket for a non-VA medical professional. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 Act allows all qualified VA medical professionals, including advanced practice nurses and physician assistants, to use the same new process afforded to VA physicians.
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement following President Donald Trump’s speech at the American Farm Bureau Federation’s 99th Annual Convention and the release of a new report by the Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity outlining various recommendations to improve life in rural communities: “I applaud President Trump for his speech to the American Farm Bureau today showing his commitment to the agricultural industry and building on the work his administration has done over the last 12 months to uphold his promise to farmers across the country. Early last year, President Trump showed he was serious about agriculture having a seat at the table when he hired Ray Starling, my former chief of staff, to advise him on agriculture policy. His speech today announcing broadband recommendations of the Rural Prosperity Task Force to help rural America thrive and overcome the challenges they face reaffirms his commitment to our agricultural community. “I join the president in making internet connectivity in rural America a priority. Since my time as Speaker of the House in the North Carolina, I have placed significant importance on empowering rural communities with access to broadband services. I was pleased that the task force chaired by Secretary Purdue highlighted this need and I commend the president on his executive orders that he signed today that provide his administration additional direction to bring ‘broader, faster, and better internet service’ to rural America. “By reducing burdensome regulations and passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act last year, we made tremendous progress to deliver long-overdue relief for our farmers. The North Carolina agriculture sector remains our state’s number one industry but crop prices, destructive weather, and volatile markets have had their effects. It is through policies and successes like the president outlined in his speech today that will continue preserving our agricultural industry as the state’s economic engine. I want to join the president in thanking our farmers and ranchers for their dedication to producing our food and providing us the safest, most abundant food and fiber supply in the world.” ###
01.05.2018	This week, bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) that seeks to improve veterans’ access to health care by expanding telehealth services – including mental health treatment - provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) unanimously passed the Senate. The Veterans E-Health & Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act was introduced by U.S. Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA) and Mazie Hirono (D-HI). “Veterans currently receiving telehealth services must be physically present at a VA hospital or clinic, an unnecessary burden that prevents them from getting the health care they need and deserve,” said Senator Tillis. “The VETS Act will allow veterans to receive these services from the comfort of their own homes and provides expanded access to health care from the VA. I urge the House of Representatives to swiftly pass this legislation so it can be signed into law.” “All of our veterans must have access to quality and timely care, including life-saving mental health treatment, regardless of where they live,” said Senator Ernst. “The VETS Act would allow Iowa’s rural or disabled veterans to receive care from their own home by increasing telehealth and telemedicine services provided by the VA. With more than 200,000 veterans across Iowa, I am thrilled to see our bipartisan effort advance through the U.S. Senate so we can continue working to ensure better care for those who have sacrificed so much.” “The VETS Act will help Hawaii veterans access high quality VA care and health services when they need it, where they need it,” said Senator Hirono. “I urge the swift enactment of the bill and will continue to fight to ensure Hawaii veterans can access the care they need from a strong, well-resourced VA system.” Background: In August of 2017, the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) announced it will expand telehealth services for veterans and provide telemedicine across state lines, mirroring efforts in the VETS Act. The VETS Act was included in the Caring for Our Veterans Act of 2017 and was approved by the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs on November 29, 2017. The VETS Act seeks to improve health care access – including mental health treatment – for disabled or rural veterans by expanding telehealth services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by allowing VA health officials to practice telemedicine across state lines if they are qualified and practice within the scope of their authorized federal duties. Additionally, the legislation ensures the VA and Congress provide oversight of the VA’s telehealth program by requiring the VA to measure program effectiveness. ###
01.04.2018	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and James Lankford (R-OK) issued the following joint statement on today’s meeting between President Trump and Senate Republicans on solutions for DACA and border security: “Today’s meeting between the President and Senate Republicans was productive, and we are all on the same page when it comes to securing our borders once and for all and providing long-term certainty for DACA youth. “Over the course of the last several weeks, we have negotiated in good faith with Senate Democrats on a DACA agreement. Unfortunately, our discussions on border security and enforcement with Democrats are much further apart, and that is key to getting a bipartisan deal on DACA. Until that happens, we cannot accomplish the solutions our country needs and many families deserve. More work remains ahead.” ###
12.31.2017	Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the bipartisan Senate Human Rights Caucus, today issued the following joint statement on the continued protests in Iran: “The Iranian people are bravely and peacefully taking to the streets to voice their rejection of a regime that has oppressed them and denied their basic human rights. The bipartisan Senate Human Rights Caucus stands in solidarity with the demands of the Iranian protestors and urges the Administration and Congress to continue supporting human rights in Iran.” ###
12.29.2017	VIDEO: Senator Tillis on why being an effective Senator and producing results means being willing to reach across the aisle. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. “I’m tired of talking heads and pundits and people who have never produced a conservative outcome trying to tell me how to get a result. I’ve got a strong conservative record in North Carolina, whether it’s Second Amendment, property rights, life, I can go down a very long list. But that way I’ve accomplished that is by not being mad about being conservative. It’s by being productive and convincing Democrats to join with us on bills that make sense. “You have RINOs [Republicans In Need Of Outcomes] and DINOs [Democrats In Need Of Outcomes]. I’ve told people I want HIPPOs: Highly Independent People Producing Outcomes. We’ve got to be willing to turn to the people in both conferences who hold extreme views and say you’re clearly not here to produce an outcome, you’re here to make a point. Well, I’m here to make a difference, and I’m looking for other people who want to make a difference.” Senator Tillis has worked across the aisle to tackle problems and produce outcomes. Tillis, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, has worked across the aisle to support North Carolina military families and military installations: Senator Tillis secured provisions in the FY2018 NDAA to make much-needed improvements to the living quarters and other essential facilities at Camp Lejeune, including over $100 million for the Bachelor Enlisted Quarters and a Water Treatment Plan Replacement. Secured $40 million in the FY2018 NDAA for supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities and $1 million for a pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities to facilitate spousal employment on military installations outside the United States. Secured over $25 million that paves the way for Seymour Johnson Air Force Base so home a squadron of KC-46 Air Force Tankers. Secured $15 million for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point that guarantees the construction of the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility and ensures the future home of F-35B Joint Strike Fighters in North Carolina. Senators Tillis and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced bipartisan legislation that is awaiting signature by the President that streamlines and eases the burden on the process whereby active-duty military, reservists and veterans apply for their commercial driver’s license. Tillis is leading on solutions to reform our nation’s broken immigration system: Tillis introduced the SUCCEED Act, a fair and merit-based solution that allows the DACA-eligible population to earn and keep legal status as long as they work hard, give back to society, pay their taxes, and follow the law. Senators Tillis and John Cornyn (R-TX), introduced the Building America’s Trust Act, legislation that increases resources at our borders, boosts trade through ports of entry, and strengthens enforcement of existing immigration laws. Tillis has followed through on his calls for bipartisanship and is currently engaged in a working group with both Democrat and Republican senators to reach a deal that would pair extensive border security and interior enforcement measures with a long-term solution for the DACA-eligible population. Tillis has worked across the aisle to improve educational benefits and job opportunities for veterans. In 2017, Senator Tillis had several bipartisan bills he co-introduced incorporated into law: The Veterans Education Experience Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) improves veterans’ experience when using GI Bill education benefits and provide resources and training for the officials at educational institutions who serve student veterans, helping them achieve positive education outcomes. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), which reinstates lost benefits to veterans whose Post-9/11 GI Bill education benefits are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. The Veterans Education Priority Enrollment Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) ensures that veterans, servicemembers, and surviving spouses and children of servicemembers who have died in the line of duty can take full advantage of their education benefits. The Yellow Ribbon Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) extends Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients. “When he dies, he said, he wants his epitaph to read: ‘Thom Tillis. Former speaker, former senator, RINO.’ Nervous laughter went up from the crowd. RINO is a dirty word in GOP circles; it means Republican In Name Only and suggests someone who is too moderate to be a true member of the party. But Tillis, who has been on the receiving end of such criticism before, said he invented a new meaning for the term. To him it means “Republican In Need of Outcomes.” If a debate between Republicans comes down to choosing between an idea that is unrealistic but will sound good to the party base and one that needs a compromise but has an actual chance at creating change, he said it’s ‘politically courageous’ to support the latter. ‘What we need to do is be the party of results,’ Tillis said.” (Raleigh News & Observer, 5/12/17)
12.28.2017	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has quickly established himself as a bipartisan leader on immigration reform, working on commonsense solutions to secure our borders, provide long-term certainty for undocumented children, and reform temporary worker visa programs that small businesses across the nation depend on to survive and support American jobs.Senator Tillis on why immigration reform is important to him. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis on why he introduced the SUCCEED Act, a solution for the DACA-eligible population. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis on why border security is critical. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis on why the H-2B Visa Program is needed to help support American jobs and businesses. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video.Senator Tillis is laying the groundwork for broad immigration overhaul.Earlier this year, the Wall Street Journal reported that Tillis is laying the groundwork for a methodical, step-by-step approach immigration reform that pairs immigration solutions supported by both parties. “A Republican senator is trying to break years of congressional gridlock over immigration with a new plan that would pair changes sought by Democrats with those pushed by his own party. At a time when President Donald Trump’s promise to build a wall along the southern border is dominating the immigration discussion, Sen. Thom Tillis (R., N.C.) has been talking with a handful of Democrats and Republicans to build support for a broader overhaul. His plan would aim to tighten border security and toughen enforcement of immigration laws—goals often cited by Republicans—while addressing the fate of the roughly 11 million immigrants currently in the U.S. illegally, a Democratic priority.” (Kristina Peterson & Laura Meckler, “GOP Senator Lays Groundwork for Broad Immigration Overhaul,” Wall Street Journal, 1/24/17) Senator Tillis has led efforts to reform the temporary working program. Senator Tillis has also been at the forefront of efforts to reform temporary worker programs, including the H-2B visa program, which is vital to small and seasonal small employers in North Carolina and across the country who depend on temporary workers to sustain their businesses. Senators Tillis and Angus King (I-ME) introduced the Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation that provides more long-term certainty for seasonal employers. Tillis also successfully urged the Department of Homeland Security to provide 15,000 additional H-2B visas to assist seasonal small businesses facing labor shortages this year. “Tillis has shown deep interest in immigration policy. He placed a ‘hold’ on one of Trump’s nominees for the Department of Homeland Security in July in an effort to pressure the department to approve more visas for guest workers. He removed the hold on Lee Francis Cissna to be director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services after DHS and then-Sec. John Kelly approved an additional 15,000 visas for workers who aid North Carolina’s landscaping, tourism and seafood-production industries.” (Franco Ordonez, “N.C. senator tosses Trump a conservative life raft for Dreamers,” McClatchy, 8/31/17) Senator Tillis is committed to finding a solution for the DACA population.Senator Tillis has been a national leader in finding a solution to provide long-term certainty for undocumented children who were brought to the United States through no fault of their own. Following President Trump’s announcement in September that he was phasing out the DACA program in six months, Tillis introduced the SUCCEED Act, a fair and merit-based solution that allows the DACA-eligible population to earn and keep legal status as long as they work hard, give back to society, pay their taxes, and follow the law. “As Donald Trump was pressing his hard-line immigration platform en route to the GOP nomination last year, Republican Sen. Thom Tillis decided to go in a different direction entirely…The freshman senator from North Carolina is now making his biggest immigration play yet, unveiling a plan to provide permanent relief to the undocumented immigrants who came here as minors.If a deal can be done to win over the warring parties and a president who has swung back and forth on the issue, it might start with Tillis, who has methodically carved out a profile as a pro-immigration Republican at a time when the GOP has swerved sharply to the right.” (Seung Min Kim, “Meet the Republican who might cut a Dreamers deal,” Politico, 10/10/17) Tillis has also been an outspoken advocate for securing our nation’s borders. Following a week-long visit to the Texas-Mexico border earlier this year, Tillis, along with Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), introduced the Building America’s Trust Act, legislation that increases resources at our borders, boosts trade through ports of entry, and strengthens enforcement of existing immigration laws.Tillis has warned about the continued consequences of insecure borders – including humanitarian risks to adults and children and the rise of narcoterrorist organizations that have contributed to the America’s opioid addiction crisis. Tillis has called on Republicans and Democrats to seek common ground and work on solutions. “I believe that a practical and effective approach to border security can gain the support of the Trump administration and both Republicans and Democrats in Congress. Moving forward, border security should initiate the first phase of a methodical, step by step process to immigration reform that will also strengthen interior enforcement, reform our legal immigration system, and address the undocumented population in the United States in a fair and compassionate way. Securing our border and reforming our broken immigration system will require all sides to demonstrate a willingness to work together and refuse to allow the perfect to become the enemy of good solutions.” (Thom Tillis, “Securing our border must be first step in immigration reform,” The Hill, 4/18/17). Senator Tillis has followed through on his calls for bipartisanship and is currently engaged in negotiations with both Democrat and Republican senators to reach a deal that would pair extensive border security and interior enforcement measures with a long-term solution for the DACA-eligible population. “…The North Carolina senator has emerged as one of the key lawmakers working across the aisle to compromise on immigration legislation. A key issue Tillis is trying to find consensus between Democrats and Republicans on providing legal protections to the nearly 800,000 undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children….Tillis is trying to find the sweet spot. The North Carolina Republican is part of a group of lawmakers who have been negotiating on how to pair legal protections for the Dreamers with enough increased border security to satisfy Republicans, but not be too extreme as to turn off Democrats.” (Eliza Collins, “On DACA, Republican Sen. Thom Tillis wants to find middle-ground,” USA Today, 12/13/17) ###
12.27.2017	In 2017, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) was selected to serve as the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, where he has worked on a bipartisan basis to oversee Department of Defense (DOD) personnel policies, including compensation, benefits, education and healthcare for servicemembers, their families, and DOD civilian employees. In addition, he has used his position on the Senate Armed Services Committee over the last three years to champion North Carolina’s military installations – including Fort Bragg, Camp Lejeune, Cherry Point, and Seymour Johnson – and has advanced initiatives that reaffirm North Carolina’s status as the nation’s tip of the spear. Senator Tillis’ top priorities on the Armed Services Committee. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis’ bipartisan focus as chairman of the Personnel Subcommittee. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis on the impact the 2018 NDAA will have for servicemembers. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis has worked to improve the quality of life for soldiers and their families at Camp Lejeune. Senator Tillis secured provisions in the FY2018 NDAA to make much-needed improvements to the living quarters and other essential facilities at Camp Lejeune, including over $100 million for the Bachelor Enlisted Quarters and a Water Treatment Plan Replacement. “Tillis said his visits to North Carolina’s military installations helped shape the direction of the NDAA. The visits and discussions with military leaders helped set priorities for the bill, he said. At Camp Lejeune, Tillis said there was a clear case of haves and have-nots in on-base housing and other facilities. He said he heard stories of Marines coming into work on their days off to repair roofs and covering desks to protect working spaces from the elements. ‘Quite frankly, they’re unacceptable,’ Tillis said of the conditions at some on-post facilities.Tillis said that while not as flashy as new planes or ships, the provisions he fought for in the NDAA could have a lasting impact on the nation’s military. He said he’s confident most of those key provisions will remain in the final version of the bill.” (Fayetteville Observer, 7/29/2017) Senator Tillis has been dedicated to providing proper medical care to our men and women in uniform.Earlier this year, Senator Tillis visited Camp Lejeune and announced a plan to improve trauma care at Camp Lejeune that could benefit both the Marine Corps and Eastern North Carolina residents and will change Camp Lejeune base hospital from Naval Hospital Camp Lejeune to Navy Medical Center Camp Lejeune. “U.S. Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., announced a plan Wednesday to improve trauma care at Camp Lejeune, a tweak that could benefit both the Marine Corps and Eastern North Carolina residents.While the trauma plan will likely take at least five months to come to fruition, the senator also immediately announced the change of the base hospital from Naval Hospital Camp Lejeune to Navy Medical Center Camp Lejeune.As soon as later this year, the medical center could be prepared to offer trauma care to civilians -- an effort Tillis and military professionals believe will give Marine medical personnel hands-on experience effectively preparing them for combat. The hospital would then partner with local healthcare providers, highlighted by Onslow Memorial Hospital, to offer rehabilitation.‘When we think about readiness, we generally think about the soldier on the battlefield,’ said Tillis, who visited Camp Lejeune Wednesday. ‘We don’t think about everything else that has to happen to ensure the soldier returns home as safe and healthy as possible.’” (Jacksonville Daily News, 6/1/2017) As chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Personnel, Senator Tillis has held hearings on Military Family Readiness Programs and Concussions. In February, Senator Tillis held a hearing to receive testimony on the Department of Defense single servicemember and military family readiness programs. Senator Tillis questioned military leaders about the need to improve childcare services for military families, as well as military initiatives to expand employment opportunities for military spouses.Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ Remarks. Senator Tillis also held a hearing to bring attention to the importance of research, diagnosis, and treatment for traumatic brain injury/concussion in servicemembers.Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ Opening Statement.Click HERE to watch the full hearing. Senator Tillis has worked to grow Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point and Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.Senator Tillis secured $15 million for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point that guarantees the construction of the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility and ensures the future home of F-35B Joint Strike Fighters in North Carolina.Senator Tillis also secured over $25 million that paves the way for Seymour Johnson Air Force Base so home a squadron of KC-46 Air Force Tankers. Earlier this year, the United States Air Force selected Seymour Johnson Air Force Base as the Main Operating Base for a KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron “North Carolina will house a new generation of Air Force tankers designed for midflight refueling of aircraft. It’s been two years since the Air Force picked Seymour Johnson Air Force Base as its preferred location for a KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron. Now it’s official. The base’s environmental assessment has been completed and, pending delivery by Boeing, the 12 tanker aircraft could be at Seymour Johnson by 2020, the Air Force confirmed Wednesday.” (Raleigh N&O, 9/13/2017) Senator Tillis has advocated on behalf of military families.Another provision secured by Senator Tillis in the FY2018 NDAA authorizes $40 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities and $1 million for a pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities to facilitate spousal employment on military installations outside the United States.Senator Tillis has been creating opportunities for servicemembers to find jobs.In September, Senator Tillis co-introduced legislation that is awaiting signature by the President that streamlines and eases the burden on the process whereby active-duty military, reservists and veterans apply for their commercial driver’s license. The new law will allow the experience they gained serving our nation in a civilian capacity and not force them to go through a duplicative credentialing process to obtain a commercial driver’s license. Sen. Thom Tillis has joined with senators from Texas and Massachusetts to introduce a bill that would simplify the process for troops and veterans to apply for a commercial driver’s license. Tillis, a North Carolina Republican, and Sens. John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, and Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, introduced The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017. According to officials, the legislation ‘streamlines and eases the burden on the process whereby active-duty military, reservists and veterans apply for their commercial driver’s license.’ The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act of 2015 provided similar benefits for veterans applying for a CDL, according to Tillis’ office. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 would permanently extend those same benefits to those still in uniform. (Fayetteville Observer, 6/25/2017) ###
12.26.2017	During his first three years as a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Senator Tillis has worked across the aisle to expand education and job opportunities for veterans and has worked to reform the VA to assure they are getting the healthcare they need and deserve. Senator Tillis’ priorities for the VA Committee in 2018. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis on what a veteran should do if they're having issues with the VA. CLICK HERE to watch the video. CLICK HERE to download the video. Senator Tillis has improved educational benefits for veterans. Senator Tillis co-introduced the bipartisan The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 that was signed into law. The comprehensive G.I. Bill reform package included the following legislation originally introduced by Senator Tillis as standalone legislation: The Veterans Education Experience Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) improves veterans’ experience when using GI Bill education benefits and provide resources and training for the officials at educational institutions who serve student veterans, helping them achieve positive education outcomes. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) reinstates lost benefits to veterans whose Post-9/11 GI Bill education benefits are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. The Veterans Education Priority Enrollment Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) ensures that veterans, servicemembers, and surviving spouses and children of servicemembers who have died in the line of duty can take full advantage of their education benefits. The Yellow Ribbon Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) extends Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients. “Congress has sent to the president a bill to revise and expand the G.I. Bill, a program that provides college money to military personnel, veterans and their dependents. Lawmakers who represent Fort Bragg, including U.S. Sen. Thom Tillis and U.S. Rep. Richard Hudson, are celebrating the legislation. The Senate approved the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act Of 2017 on Wednesday. According to Tillis’ office, the bill would eliminate the 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use the G.I. Bill.” (Fayetteville Observer, 8/3/2017) Senator Tillis has strengthened VA Accountability. Senator Tillis co-sponsored the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act that was signed into law. The bipartisan legislation reforms the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by allowing the secretary to dismiss bad employees and ensure appropriate due process protections for whistleblowers. “Last week, the President signed a bill that enables the Department of Veteran Affairs to more easily fire problem employees, and the move drew praise from two of Rowan County’s members of Congress.On Friday, President Donald Trump signed the “VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act.” As its name suggests, the measure provides protections for whistleblowers and gives greater authority to the VA secretary to remove, demote or suspend any employee for poor performance or misconduct.Tillis, who co-sponsored the measure in the Senate, said the bill gives the VA ‘long-overdue authority to remove bad actors.’” (Salisbury Post, 6/26/2017) Senator Tillis has continued to fight on behalf of Camp Lejeune affected by tainted water.After years of work, the Department of Veterans Affairs published a regulation in March announcing compensation payments to Marines suffering from health problems caused by tainted water at Camp Lejeune. Senator Tillis has worked with Senator Burr since being elected to fight for medical coverage and compensation for Lejeune veterans suffering from medical conditions including multiple kinds of cancer and Parkinson’s disease. “A $2.2 billion promise from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is just the beginning, according to members of Congress. For U.S. Rep. Walter Jones and Sens. Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, all Republicans from North Carolina, the compensation can be applauded but shouldn’t overshadow the work that needs to continue to be done to provide compensation for family members and contractors also affected by the contaminated water. … Tillis said his team is going to focus on helping those veterans who may have started the claim process more than a year ago, then shift to the family members and contractors next, keeping in mind the mechanics of the process are going to be helpful.” (JD News, 3/26/2017) Senator Tillis has helped veterans exposed to toxic burn pits. Language from the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Tillis and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), was included in the FY2018 NDAA. This provision creates a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. “Legislation introduced last week would compel the Department of Veterans Affairs to look more closely at the affects toxic burn pits have had on the nation's veterans. Sen. Thom Tillis, a North Carolina Republican, and Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, introduced the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act on Tuesday. The legislation, if approved, would create a center of excellence within the VA to ‘better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure.’” (Fayetteville Observer, 2/11/2017) Senator Tillis has worked to modernize the DoD & VA healthcare collaboration. Earlier this year, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin announced that the VA will adopt the same Electronic Health Record (EHR) system as the Department of Defense for veterans’ medical records. Senator Tillis secured a provision in the FY2018 NDAA that lays the groundwork for military treatment facilities to provide health care to servicemembers, dependents, veterans and civilians. The services will be able to maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills while also providing state of the art specialty care to medically underserved communities. Senator Tillis’ provisions would require a Comptroller General report of Department of Defense measures to maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills and core competencies of health care providers. Senator Tillis has worked to increase job opportunities for veterans.Senator Tillis co-introduced The Veteran Apprenticeship and Labor Opportunity Reform (VALOR) Act that was signed into law. The legislation increases access to apprenticeship-training programs for veterans by streamlining the certification process for non-federal apprenticeship programs based in more than one state. This year, Senator Tillis also co-introduced the Boosting Rates of American Veterans Employment (BRAVE) Act, bipartisan legislation that would support job creation for America’s veterans. Senator Tillis has advocated to extend newborn care for veterans.In April, Senator Tillis co-introduced The Newborn Care Improvement Act, bipartisan legislation that would double the number of days veterans receive care for their newborns from seven to 14. ###
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) to help families locate missing loved ones with Alzheimer’s disease, autism and related conditions unanimously passed the U.S. Senate. Kevin and Avonte’s Law (S. 2070), named in honor of two boys with autism who perished after wandering from safety, would also support training for caregivers to prevent and respond to instances of wandering and is now pending approval in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I’m pleased to see the Senate unanimously pass Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which will support training for caregivers to prevent and respond to missing individuals with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, and related conditions,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation has a deep personal meaning for me, as I was a caregiver for my grandmother during her battle with Alzheimer’s disease. We should be moving heaven and earth to help families and caregivers reunite with loved ones who wander and disappear, and Kevin and Avonte’s Law can truly make a difference in preventing tragedies and give families across America a greater peace of mind.” “The feeling of dread and helplessness families must experience when a loved one with Alzheimer’s or autism goes missing is unimaginable. But when communities are empowered to lend a hand, these terrifying situations can have happy endings. Kevin and Avonte’s Law, named for a boy from Jefferson, Iowa and a boy from New York City, makes resources available for technologies that advance the search for missing children, along with specialized training for caregivers and first responders to help prevent wandering by vulnerable individuals,” Grassley said. “I look forward to its swift passage in the House of Representatives.” “We need to do everything we can to make sure that kids like Hamza Elmi from St. Cloud – and all people with a developmental disability or a form of dementia – make it home safely,” Klobuchar said. “Passing this bipartisan bill into law will mean first responders, law enforcement officers, caregivers, and Minnesota families will have access to the technology, resources, and training they need to prevent wandering and find missing people.” Information on the introduction of this legislation is available HERE, a bill summary can be found HERE and full text of the legislation can be found HERE. In addition to Senators Tillis, Grassley, and Klobuchar, the bill is also sponsored by Senators Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.). ###
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, the Senate unanimously passed the Ceiling Fan Energy Conservation Harmonization Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) that modifies the implementation of two upcoming regulations that would have passed on new costs to millions of American consumers if left unchanged. There are currently two efficiency requirement regulations on ceiling fans that will begin enforcement one year apart from each other: light bulbs in January 2019 and motors in January 2020. These misaligned dates could create a significant problem for the industry when multiplied over thousands of stores, supply chain lead times, redundant employee work hours, and the transition of inventory. The separate timing of the regulations could result in wasted time and cost tens of millions of dollars in total resources, including duplicative labor, labeling, testing, and reversing and replacing product models. This would ultimately harm affordability and availability for American consumers. The Tillis-Heinrich legislation makes a simple change to streamline the enforcement of both regulations to the 2020 date, avoiding wasteful costs that could have been passed onto Americans families. The residential ceiling fan market is roughly $1.8 billion, with 15 million units moved annually. The House companion version of the Ceiling Fan Energy Conservation Harmonization Act was introduced by Representative Richard Hudson (R-NC-8) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-1). The House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power included the bill in a hearing last month. “I’m pleased that the Senate came together to pass our legislation that makes one simple change to upcoming regulations that will help save millions of American consumers from a price increase on a product they need and depend on,” said Senator Tillis. “This represents a commonsense, bipartisan approach to addressing regulations, and I look forward to working with Senator Heinrich and Representatives Hudson and Butterfield to get the bill on the President’s desk.” “Energy efficiency standards for ceiling fans and other appliances are a proven way to help consumers save money on their utility bills, while also lowering emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants,” said Senator Heinrich. “I’m glad this bipartisan legislation passed the Senate. This is a smart approach to streamline compliance with the standards and avoid passing along unnecessary costs associated with implementation to American families.” ###
12.20.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in favor tax reform legislation that passed the Senate and now heads to House of Representative to be voted on before going to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The House is expected to vote on the legislation Wednesday. “The tax reform legislation fulfills a long-standing promise to deliver tax relief that benefits hard-working Americans across our nation. Starting early next year, most North Carolina families will notice bigger paychecks as the federal government withholds less of their hard-earned money because of newly lowered tax rates and a significantly larger standard deduction. This historic legislation also provides a major boost to American businesses and makes our private sector even more competitive at the global level, which in turn will lead more jobs, higher wages for workers, and stronger economic growth. Today is a big win for American families and the American economy.” ###
12.15.2017	U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, released the following statement about the Reuters journalists who were arrested in Burma on Tuesday. “As co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, we are gravely concerned about the arrests of two Reuters journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, in Burma who were writing stories about the crisis in Rakhine State following the military’s brutal crackdown on the Rohingya. We join the U.S. Embassy in Burma in calling for the Burmese government to explain the arrests and allow access to the journalists. Freedom of the press is a fundamental democratic value and critical to ensuring accountability for violence against the Rohingya. We urge the Burmese government to respect press freedom and protect all journalists instead of preventing them from accurately reporting facts on the ground and bringing atrocities to light.” ###
12.14.2017	North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr applauded the Department of the Army’s recent announcement that the second of six Security Force Assistance Brigades (SFAB) will be activated at Fort Bragg, North Carolina in January 2018. SFABs are specialized units whose core mission is to conduct advise-and-assist operations with allies and partners. The Army stated the decision to station the second SFAB at Fort Bragg was based on strategic considerations including projected time to activate and train an SFAB, presence of senior grade personnel to man the unit, and required facility costs. “Fort Bragg is the tip of the spear for the U.S. military and continues to be one of the most important military installations in the world,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “The Army’s decision to place the second Security Force Assistance Brigade at Ft. Bragg is a testament of its role in protecting our nation and its allies, and I’m proud that 800 senior officers will join the ranks of the brave men and women already stationed there.” “I’m pleased the U.S. Army has chosen Fort Bragg as the home of the second of six new Security Force Assistance Brigades,” said Senator Richard Burr. “The installation has the existing resources and expertise to facilitate the Brigade’s future success in its mission. North Carolina is home to over a million active duty service members and veterans. Some of the best and bravest serve our country at Fort Bragg, and we're proud they call North Carolina home.” Background: SFABs are designed on the brigade combat team (BCT) model and consist of approximately 800 senior and noncommissioned officers who have proven expertise in training and advising foreign security forces. Soldiers in the SFAB are screened based on qualifications and experience. The unit will receive the best, most advanced military equipment available. SFAB soldiers receive special training through the Military Advisor Training Academy to include language, foreign weapons and the Joint Fires Observer course. Commanders and leaders in the SFAB will have previously commanded and led similar BCT units at the same echelon. Enlisted advisors will hold the rank of sergeant and above. The Army is starting to formalize policies and regulations that will help SFAB soldiers with promotion rates and boards, selection boards, and special pay. ###
12.13.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Personnel, held a hearing to receive testimony updating the subcommittee on research, diagnosis, and treatment for traumatic brain injury/concussion in servicemembers. Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ Opening Statement. Click HERE to watch the full hearing. “Since 2000, the Department of Defense diagnosed over 370,000 service members with traumatic brain injury, with the majority of them diagnosed in non-deployment settings. This is not a unique problem within the Department of Defense however– it is a national problem,” said Senator Tillis. “Last year alone, there were about 2.5 million emergency room visits related to concussions in the United States, and medical experts believe there were many more concussed individuals who did not seek medical care. Congress must pursue multiple approaches to understand better the chronic effects of traumatic brain injury, including the long-term neurodegenerative problems associated with multiple concussive injuries.” The subcommittee members heard testimony from 2 panels that included the following witnesses: Panel 1 Dr. David W. Dodick - Sports Neurology And Concussion Program Director, Mayo Clinic Dr. Steven D. Devick - Chief Executive Officer King-Devick Technologies, Inc Dr. Christopher M. Miles - Associate Director, Sports Medicine Fellowship, Wake Forest University Panel 2 Dr. Joel D. Scholten - Associate Chief Of Staff For Rehabilitation Services For The Veterans’ Affairs Medical Center, Washington, DC Dr. David X. Cifu - Principal Investigator, Chronic Effects Of Neurotrauma Consortium, Department Of Veterans’ Affairs Captain (Dr.) Michael J. Colston, USN - Director, Military Health Policy And Oversight For The Assistant Secretary Of Defense For Health Affairs ###
12.12.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the President for signing the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law. The legislation included several key provisions introduced by Senator Tillis that make critical improvements to Camp Lejeune and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, provide an across the board pay raise for servicemembers, and implement important reforms that will make life easier for military families. Senator Tillis chairs the Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, which has oversight over half of the Pentagon’s budget. On a bipartisan basis, Senator Tillis and his subcommittee colleagues secured an across the board 2.4% pay raise for our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. “I applaud the President for signing the NDAA into law that reaffirms our nation’s commitment to supporting the brave men and women in uniform and reestablishes America’s commitment to a strong national defense and protecting its interest abroad,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud that my provisions to upgrade to Camp Lejeune and Cherry Point, improve military family readiness, and direct the DoD & VA to collaborate closely on establishing interoperability with the new Electronic Health Record were included. I want to thank my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee for their bipartisan effort that will positively affect our North Carolina installations, servicemembers, and military families.” The FY2018 NDAA contained the following provisions that were secured by Senator Tillis: Helping veterans exposed to toxic burn pitsLanguage from the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) earlier this year that would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. Requiring DOD Report on Cyber Security Risks to National Electric GridLanguage from the Securing the Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) earlier this year that would require the Department of Defense (DOD) to issue a one-time report on significant security risks to the national electric grid and the effects of those risks on military readiness. Modernizing the DoD & VA healthcare collaborationEarlier this year, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin announced that the VA will adopt the same Electronic Health Record (EHR) system as the Department of Defense for veterans’ medical records. Tillis’ provisions lay the groundwork for military treatment facilities to provide health care to servicemembers, dependents, veterans and civilians. The services will be able to maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills while also providing state of the art specialty care to medically underserved communities. Tillis’ provisions would require a Comptroller General report of Department of Defense measures to maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills and core competencies of health care providers. Military Family ReadinessTillis’ provisions authorizes $40 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities and $1 million for a pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities to facilitate spousal employment on military installations outside the United States. FY18 Military Construction Budget for North Carolina Camp Lejeune Tillis’ provisions allow Camp Lejeune to make much needed improvements to the living quarters and other essential facilities. $37.983M – Bachelor Enlisted Quarters $65.784M – Water Treatment Plant Replacement Hadnot Point $15.3M – Ambulatory Care Center Addition (Defense Health Agency) $21.4M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $22.0M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $10.8M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $20.539M – SOF Motor Transport Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $193.80M – Total Cherry Point Tillis’ provisions for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point guarantees the construction of the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility and secures the future home of F-35B Joint Strike Fighters in North Carolina. $15.671M – F-35B Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility $15.671M – Total Seymour Johnson Tillis’ provisions pave the way for a squadron of KC-46 Air Force Tankers. $6.4M – KC-46A ADAL for Alt Mission Storage $20.0M – Tanker Truck Delivery System (Defense Logistics Agency) $26.4M – Total Fort Bragg $20.26M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $13.518M – SOF Support Battalion Admin Facility (SOCOM) $20.0M – SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $4.0M – SOF Telecom Reliability Improvements (SOCOM) $57.778M – Total North Carolina Total$293,657,000 ###
12.12.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that Kim Canady Barnes will serve as his next State Director and Luke Blanchat will serve as his Deputy State Director. Barnes will be replacing current State Director Jordan Shaw, who was recently named as Executive Vice President for the consulting firm OnMessage Inc. Barnes has served as Senator Tillis’ Deputy State Director since he took office in 2015, and has managed the Senator’s regional office in Raleigh, responsible for overseeing casework and correspondence with federal agencies to assist North Carolinians. Blanchat has served as Senator Tillis’ Director of Economic Development, based out of the Senator’s regional office in Charlotte. Blanchat previously served as Senator Tillis’ special adviser in his Washington, D.C. office. Since Tillis took office in 2015, he has made constituent services among his top priorities, hiring a dedicated and experienced staff. His regional field offices across the state have closed more than 10,000 cases for North Carolinians in less than three years. Tillis’ constituent advocates have expertise in specialized areas and provide assistance to North Carolinians dealing with a wide range of federal agencies, including the VA, the Social Security Administration, the IRS, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Citizenship and Immigration Services, among others. Regarding the personnel announcement, Senator Tillis said: “Jordan Shaw has been a top advisor to me for many years, including at the capitol in Raleigh and in my Senate office, where he has been instrumental in building one of Congress’ best constituent services teams. He is smart and quick, down to earth, and above all else a good person. I’m proud to consider him a friend, and I know he will succeed in his next endeavor.” “Kim Barnes has led an outstanding constituent services operation in my Raleigh office, and as State Director I know she will work with Luke Blanchat and the rest of our dedicated team to ensure that all North Carolinians continue to receive unparalleled service when they contact my office in need of help with a federal agency.” Senator Tillis’ Constituent ServicesAny North Carolinian who is experiencing issues with a federal agency or department is encouraged to contact Senator Tillis and his staff by calling one of his regional offices or by emailing him through his website. Charlotte Office: (704) 509-9087 Greenville Office: (252) 329-0371 Hendersonville Office: (828) 693-8750 High Point Office: (336) 885-0685 Raleigh Office: (919) 856-4630 ###
12.07.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Fix NICS Act, bipartisan legislation to ensure federal and state authorities comply with existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). A coalition of leading Second Amendment, domestic violence, and law enforcement groups have endorsed the legislation, and multiple Editorial Boards have voiced their support. Winston-Salem Journal: “Sen. Thom Tillis has co-sponsored a bipartisan bill that introduces reasonable gun-control to address situations like November’s Texas church shooting. The bill is a good start that just might get through. The Fix NICS Act would ensure “federal and state authorities comply with existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS).” The bill would penalize federal agencies that fail to properly report relevant records and provides incentives for states to improve their overall reporting. After the horrifying church shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas, it was discovered that the shooter had been court-martialed for a domestic violence incident. The Air Force failed to enter the court-martial into a federal database as the law required, The Associated Press reported. That might have blocked him from buying the rifle he used to kill 26 people. …If that’s not a bipartisan miracle, we don’t know what is. Kudos to Tillis and his colleagues for working across the aisle to seek a practical solution to this very real problem. This is a good start.” (Winston-Salem Journal, “Our View: A Common-sense gun bill,” 12/03/17) NRA: “We applaud Sen. John Cornyn’s efforts to ensure that the records of prohibited individuals are entered into NICS, while providing a relief valve for those who are wrongly included in the system.” (Executive Director Chris Cox, National Rifle Association of America, 11/16/17) National Coalition Against Domestic Violence: “The Fix NICS Act is a demonstration of Congressional unity, bringing together not only legislators from both sides of the aisle but also taking meaningful action supported by a diverse cross-section of individuals and organizations.” (National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Letter to Sen. Cornyn, 11/16/17) Fraternal Order of Police: “Tragically, recent events have showed us that Federal agencies and State governments have too often failed to upload all relevant information to the NICS, allowing the illegal sale of a firearm. This bill will address this issue in a comprehensive way.” (Fraternal Order of Police, Letter to Sen. Cornyn, 11/16/17) New York Times: “The new bill, called the Fix NICS Act, is the rare piece of gun legislation that has no meaningful opposition and that has bipartisan support.” (New York Times, “The Pentagon’s Indifference to Gun Safety,” 11/29/17) ###
12.07.2017	U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, today introduced a resolution in the United States Senate honoring Human Rights Day and the 69th Anniversary of the 1948 ratification of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. “I am proud to introduce the Human Rights Day resolution that honors the adoption of the historic Universal Declaration of Human Rights affirming the rights of individuals and setting the standard for human rights protections,” said Senator Tillis. “As co-chair of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, I will continue to work on behalf of those who advocate for basic human rights and ensure that the United States continues to set the standard for promoting freedom across the world.” “On Human Rights Day, we celebrate the anniversary of the ratification of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and honor those around the world who work tirelessly to advance fundamental rights like freedom, justice, and equality,” said Senator Coons. “As co-chair of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, I call for passage of this resolution and recommit myself to advocating for the freedom of all those who suffer from violence and persecution.” The text of the resolution is available here. ###
12.06.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after President Trump declared Jerusalem as the capital of Israel: “I applaud President Trump for reaffirming our commitment to our greatest ally in the Middle East by recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, following through on years of advocacy on the part of leaders from both parties. The United States and Israel have a special relationship that is rooted in shared common principles and core values, and the President’s defining action will further strengthen the bond between our two great nations.” ###
12.04.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Senate passed its tax reform proposal, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Today, the Senate voted to take us one step closer to historic tax reform that will lead to bigger paychecks for hardworking Americans, and will make our nation more competitive at the global level. In the coming days, differences between the House and Senate versions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will be resolved and improvements will be made, and I’m confident the end result will deliver on our promise to provide much-needed tax relief for the American people.” ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has co-sponsored bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tim Scott (R-SC), and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) to ensure federal and state authorities comply with existing law and accurately report relevant criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The Fix NICS Act penalizes federal agencies who fail to properly report relevant records and incentivizes states to improve their overall reporting. The bill also directs more federal funding to the accurate reporting of domestic violence records. “The Fix NICS Act is commonsense, bipartisan legislation that strikes the right balance between addressing legitimate public safety concerns and protecting the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans,” said Senator Tillis. “The legislation will ensure that state and federal agencies follow our existing laws and that the national background check system receives the information necessary to prevent firearms from falling into the wrong hands.” “For years agencies and states haven’t complied with the law, failing to upload these critical records without consequence,”Sen. Cornyn said. “Just one record that’s not properly reported can lead to tragedy, as the country saw last week in Sutherland Springs, Texas. This bill aims to help fix what’s become a nationwide, systemic problem so we can better prevent criminals and domestic abusers from obtaining firearms.” “This deal will strengthen the background check system and save lives. Our bill marks an important milestone that shows real compromise can be made on the issue of guns. I’m grateful that Senator Cornyn was such a strong partner and straightforward negotiator,” said Sen. Murphy. “It’s no secret that I believe much more needs to be done. But this bill will make sure that thousands of dangerous people are prevented from buying guns. It represents the strongest update to the background checks system in a decade, and provides the foundation for more compromise in the future.” “All too often we come to the conclusion that horrible situations could have been prevented with thorough and complete reporting,” said Sen Scott. “As we tragically found out after the heartbreaking shooting at Mother Emanuel, we know the devastation that can manifest if gaps in reporting allow a madman with a criminal history to obtain a weapon. While we cannot legislate against pure evil, we most certainly should do all we can to ensure these individuals do not have access to any type of firearm. This is a commonsense solution that can fix the reporting gaps, and most importantly, has the potential to save countless innocent lives.” “These provisions will help enforce public safety protections that could mean the difference between life and death. Non-reporting now puts people at lethal risk—riddling a system that should keep guns away from killers with gaping holes. The federal background check program is only as good as the information that is provided to it,” Sen. Blumenthal said. “Mass murderers in Sutherland Springs, Charleston, and Blacksburg were legally prohibited from accessing firearms, but gaps in NICS allowed each of them to walk out of a gun store with the weapons used to commit their crimes. Our bipartisan legislation will incentivize states, and hold federal agencies accountable, to build robust reporting systems that can prevent the sale of firearms to people who are a danger to themselves or others—including convicted domestic abusers.” The Fix NICS Act has received endorsements from the National Rifle Association of America, the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Domestic Violence Hotline, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, the National Network to End Domestic Violence, and the National Sheriffs Association. Background Requires federal agencies and states to produce NICS implementation plans focused on uploading all information to the background check system showing that a person is prohibited from purchasing or possessing firearms under current law—including measures to verify the accuracy of records. Holds federal agencies accountable if they fail to upload relevant records to the background check system through public reporting and prohibiting bonus pay for political appointees. Rewards states who comply with their NICS implementation plans through federal grant preferences and incentives, while increasing accountability through public reporting for those who do not comply with their plans. Reauthorizes and improves important law enforcement programs to help state governments share relevant criminal record information with NICS. Creates a Domestic Abuse and Violence Prevention Initiative to ensure that states have adequate resources and incentives to share all relevant information with NICS showing that a felon or domestic abuser is excluded from purchasing firearms under current law. Provides important technical assistance to federal agencies and states who are working to comply with NICS record-sharing requirements. ###
11.20.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan letter to Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross asking the administration to conduct a robust economic analysis to evaluate how any changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) would affect changes to the nation’s crop and livestock sectors. “It is imperative that before any changes are made to NAFTA, or any other free trade agreement, that economic analysis that illustrates the impact on the full supply chain of the industries involved be shared. As such, we request an economic analysis that examines and evaluates the impacts to crop and livestock sectors as a result of any change to NAFTA,” the senators wrote. As the world’s top exporter of food and agricultural products, U.S. agriculture depends on access to international markets in which to sell their products. With the fifth round of NAFTA renegotiations underway, the senators were clear that any changes to U.S. trade policy must be positive for agriculture, especially in a time when many farmers and ranchers are struggling financially. Joining Senator Tillis on the bipartisan letter include Senators John Boozman (R-AR), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Cornyn (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), John Hoeven (R-ND), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Rob Portman (R-OH), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL), John Thune (R-SD). The full text of the letter is below: Dear Secretary Ross, As Senators representing states with significant agricultural economies, we write to you today to underscore the vital role that agriculture plays throughout our home states and across America. Given your recent comments regarding agriculture and international trade, we find it essential that Congress’ voice be heard. The U.S. is the world’s top exporter of food and agricultural products and is an important economic driver that stimulates prosperity and jobs throughout rural America. According to USDA, every $1 in agricultural exports generates an additional $1.27 in economic activity, and every $1 billion in farm exports supports 8,000 jobs. In fact, the data shows the benefits of agricultural trade align with many of the Administration’s goals and priorities – supports U.S. jobs, encourages U.S. investment, and fosters economic growth within the U.S. The agriculture industry does not want to see momentum hindered especially at a time when net farm income has declined by approximately 50 percent over the past four years. It is imperative that before any changes are made to NAFTA, or any other free trade agreement, that economic analysis that illustrates the impact on the full supply chain of the industries involved be shared. As such, we request an economic analysis that examines and evaluates the impacts to crop and livestock sectors as a result of any change to NAFTA. With 95 percent of consumers residing outside of the U.S., farmers and ranchers must have access to export markets to sell their high-quality product. Free trade agreements have allowed the U.S. agriculture industry to establish itself as a trusted supplier. International markets have taken years to build, and it is imperative that no steps be taken to jeopardize these gains. We must continue to move the global presence of U.S. agricultural products forward, not backward. As the Administration works to strengthen current trade agreements and negotiate new agreements, we ask that you support the important role that agriculture plays in the nation’s economy. We look forward to working with you to ensure a strong marketplace for our farmers and ranchers. Sincerely, ###
11.17.2017	This week, legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) unanimously passed the Senate and will head to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The Veteran Apprenticeship and Labor Opportunity Reform (VALOR) Act would increase access to apprenticeship-training programs for veterans by streamlining the certification process for non-federal apprenticeship programs based in more than one state.“I applaud Congress for passing the VALOR Act on a bipartisan basis to reduce burdensome requirements on businesses so apprenticeship programs will be more accessible to veterans,” said Senator Tillis. BackgroundUnder current law non-federal apprenticeship training programs located in multiple states have to register with each state approval agency individually, subjecting them to mountains of paperwork and multiple burdensome review processes. In response, employers have decided to limit their programs to a smaller number of states and, as a result, hire fewer veterans. The VALOR Act would amend current law to allow for a single, more streamlined approval process. Congressman Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jodey Arrington (R-TX), and Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. ###
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Robert Wilkie, Senator Thom Tillis’ senior advisor, was confirmed by the unanimous consent of the Senate as Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Click here to download video of Senator Tillis introducing Wilkie during his confirmation hearing earlier this month before the Senate Armed Services Committee. Wilkie has served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since he took office in 2015, advising him on national security and military issues. Tillis currently serves as the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, which handles all quality of life issues for servicemembers and military families. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. Wilkie is assigned to the Headquarters of the United States Air Force. Prior to joining the Air Force, Wilkie served in the United States Navy Reserve with Naval Special Warfare Group Two and the Office of Naval Intelligence. Wilkie is a graduate of the College of Naval Command and Staff, Air Command and Staff College, the United States Army War College, and the Joint Forces Staff College. He is the recipient of the Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian award of the Department. Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, holds a Juris Doctor from Loyola University of New Orleans, a Master of Laws in International and Comparative Law from Georgetown University, a Master’s in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College, and an Honors degree in Politics from Wake Forest University. Senator Tillis issued the following statement: “Robert Wilkie is deeply respected by North Carolina’s military community and elected officials on both sides of the aisle. It’s no surprise that he has been unanimously confirmed by the Senate to serve as the next Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Robert has been indispensable as my senior advisor over the last three years, playing a vital role in ensuring that North Carolina’s military installations have the resources and assets they need to serve America’s national security mission. I’m excited to continue working closely with Robert on behalf of our brave servicemembers and military families in North Carolina and across the nation.” ###
11.16.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the Senate passage of the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report that will now head to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The legislation includes several key provisions introduced by Senator Tillis that will make critical improvements to Camp Lejeune and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, provide an across the board pay raise for servicemembers, and implement important reforms that will make life easier for military families. Senator Tillis chairs the Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, which has oversight over half of the Pentagon’s budget. On a bipartisan basis, Senator Tillis and his subcommittee colleagues negotiated through an across the board 2.4% pay raise for our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. “The Senate passage of the NDAA reaffirms our nation’s commitment to supporting the brave men and women in uniform and reestablishes America’s commitment to a strong national defense and protecting its interest abroad,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that my provisions to upgrade Camp Lejeune and Cherry Point, improve military family readiness, and direct the DoD & VA to collaborate closely on establishing interoperability with the new Electronic Health Record are included. I want to thank my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee for this bipartisan effort that will positively affect our North Carolina installations, servicemembers, and military families.” The NDAA Conference Report contains the following provisions that were secured by Senator Tillis: Helping veterans exposed to toxic burn pitsLanguage from the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) earlier this year that would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. Requiring DOD Report on Cyber Security Risks to National Electric GridLanguage from the Securing the Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) earlier this year that would require the Department of Defense (DOD) to issue a one-time report on significant security risks to the national electric grid and the effects of those risks on military readiness. Modernizing the DoD & VA healthcare collaborationEarlier this year, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin announced that the VA will adopt the same Electronic Health Record (EHR) system as the Department of Defense for veterans’ medical records. Tillis’ provisions expand authority and allow military treatment facilities to provide health care to servicemembers, dependents, veterans and civilians. The services can maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills while also providing state of the art specialty care to underserved medical communities. Tillis’ provisions would: Require a Comptroller General report of Department of Defense measures to maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills and core competencies of health care providers. Military Family Readiness Authorizes $40 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities. Authorizes $1 million for a pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities to facilitate spousal employment on military installations outside the United States. FY18 Military Construction Budget for North Carolina Camp Lejeune Tillis’ provisions allow Camp Lejeune to make much needed improvement to the living quarters and other essential facilities. $37.983M – Bachelor Enlisted Quarters $65.784M – Water Treatment Plant Replacement Hadnot Point $15.3M – Ambulatory Care Center Addition (Defense Health Agency) $21.4M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $22.0M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $10.8M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $20.539M – SOF Motor Transport Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $193.80M – Total Cherry Point Tillis’ provisions for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point guarantees the construction of the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility and secures the future home of F-35B Joint Strike Fighters in North Carolina. $15.671M – F-35B Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility $15.671M – Total Seymour Johnson Tillis’ provisions paves the way for a squadron of KC-46 Air Force Tankers. $6.4M – KC-46A ADAL for Alt Mission Storage $20.0M – Tanker Truck Delivery System (Defense Logistics Agency) $26.4M – Total Fort Bragg $20.26M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $13.518M – SOF Support Battalion Admin Facility (SOCOM) $20.0M – SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $4.0M – SOF Telecom Reliability Improvements (SOCOM) $57.778M – Total North Carolina Total$293,657,000 ###
11.15.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) chaired a Helsinki Commission hearing on Turkey’s detention of U.S. citizens, including North Carolina native Andrew Brunson. “As of today, Andrew Brunson has spent 404 days in a Turkish jail without trial and without access to the evidence against him. He is the subject of a vicious smear campaign in the Turkish press, and is facing life in prison on fabricated charges of being a terrorist and coup-plotter,” said Senator Tillis. “It is clear President Erdogan is holding Andrew Brunson ransom and the United States should not expect—much less accept—this sort of treatment from a NATO ally. I will continue to work with the State Department and my colleagues in Congress to secure the release of Andrew so he can return to the United States as a free man.” Brunson, who is a Presbyterian pastor from Black Mountain, North Carolina, dedicated 23 years to Christian missionary work in Turkey until he was arrested last October. He has been detained in Turkey on national security charges and denied regular and appropriate access to legal counsel and American consular services. Earlier this year, Senator Tillis, Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), and leaders of the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees sent a letter signed by 78 members of Congress to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan seeking the unconditional release of American pastor Andrew Brunson. Watch Senator Tillis’ opening statement HERE. Watch the entire hearing HERE. ###
11.15.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, and Senator Gary Peters (D-MI) introduced the Fostering Innovation Act, bipartisan legislation that would provide commonsense regulatory relief for many innovative companies that are in scientific and medical research fields. “North Carolina has a rich and diverse biotech landscape, and is the home of many companies that are on the cutting edge of scientific and medical research. Unfortunately, some of the expiring JOBS Act exemptions are going to harm the ability of some companies to access capital and continue to grow by diverting critical investments away from science towards compliance,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to join Senator Peters to introduce the bipartisan Fostering Innovation Act, and I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to advance this critical fix.” "Michigan is a growing hub for bio-technology startups that are creating jobs and developing cutting-edge cures. Many cures take years of trials and testing to reach patients in need, tying up precious resources for these small businesses,” said Senator Peters. “This bipartisan, commonsense legislation would cut red tape for emerging bio-technology companies so they can focus their resources on the critical research and development that will provide innovative treatments and save lives.” According to the North Carolina Biotechnology Center, North Carolina is home to more than 650 Life Science companies, including 350 research and development companies, 125 contract research and testing companies, and 110 production and manufacturing companies. These companies employee 63,000 North Carolinians and posted a 6.6 percent employment growth from 2012-2014, three times the national average. The Fostering Innovation Act is receiving praise of industry organizations such as: North Carolina Biosciences Organization (NCBIO) President Sam Taylor: “North Carolina is home to more than 650 biotech companies, directly employing 63,000 North Carolinians in jobs with an average wage of $95,000. The biotech industry in our state has already benefitted tremendously from the JOBS Act, which incentivizes the capital formation necessary to fund life-saving research and clinical trials. The Fostering Innovation Act would build on the JOBS Act’s success and further support small businesses in North Carolina by allowing them to focus valuable innovation capital on their groundbreaking R&D rather than government red tape. NCBIO applauds Sen. Tillis for introducing this bipartisan legislation, which we believe will support the growth of emerging innovators across our state.” MichBio President and CEO Stephen Rapundalo: “MichBio applauds the efforts of Sens. Peters and Tillis in introducing the Fostering Innovation Act. If enacted, the legislation would reduce the significant costs that small pre-revenue companies, like those in Michigan’s biosciences industry, incur to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley regulations as they go into public markets. Relieving them of that burden would encourage more of them to commercialize, grow their companies, create new jobs and be impactful to both the Michigan and national economies.” BIO President & CEO Jim Greenwood: “BIO commends Sens. Tillis and Peters for introducing the Fostering Innovation Act. More than 230 emerging biotechs have gone public under the JOBS Act, and this bill would further support their growth. By allowing innovative small businesses to focus their investment capital on science rather than compliance, the Fostering Innovation Act would allow these emerging innovators to remain focused on delivering groundbreaking cures and treatments to patients. The targeted nature of the Fostering Innovation Act, which would only benefit pre-revenue companies, represents an important move away from one-size-fits-all regulations. BIO strongly supports this vital legislation, and we applaud Sens. Tillis and Peters for their efforts to reduce compliance costs for emerging biotechs and support small business capital formation.” Background: Currently, emerging growth companies (EGCs) are exempt from certain regulatory requirements for five years after their initial public offering (IPO). One of the requirements EGCs are exempt from is Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 (b) - which requires public companies to obtain an external audit on the effectiveness of their internal controls for financial reporting. The Fostering Innovation Act is a very narrow fix that temporarily extends the Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404(b) exemption for an additional five years for a small subset of EGCs with annual average revenue of less than $50 million and less than $700 million in public float. Similar legislation has been introduced in the House of Representatives by Congresswoman Kyrsten Sinema (AZ-09) and Congressman Trey Hollingsworth (IN-09).
11.13.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, and other senators announced a bipartisan agreement on legislative proposals to improve our nation’s financial regulatory framework and promote economic growth. Last spring, the Banking Committee issued a request for legislative proposals from stakeholders, companies, and consumers aimed at creating economic growth. The Committee subsequently held a series of hearings exploring the proposals, and has been negotiating and drafting a reform package since that time. The agreement includes measures from Committee members on both sides of the aisle and stakeholders. Legislative text is in the process of being finalized and will be released upon completion. “The bipartisan agreement the Banking Committee was able to reach is the result when members check their ideology at the door and work to together to produce meaningful legislation that helps everyday Americans, something that needs to happen far more often,” said Senator Tillis. “Over the last three years, I have heard from financial institutions across North Carolina about the impact of burdensome regulations, which has restricted access to capital for Americans all across the country. Dodd-Frank’s harmful one-size-fits-all model has proven to be a failure, and this legislation will help ensure farmers, small-business owners, and first-time home buyers have the resources they need to allow our economy to thrive again. I applaud Chairman Crapo and my colleagues in the Banking Committee for coming together to reach this agreement.” “A strong and vibrant economy is important for American consumers, businesses, and the stability of the financial sector,” said Chairman Crapo. “The bipartisan proposals on which we have agreed will significantly improve our financial regulatory framework and foster economic growth by right-sizing regulation, particularly for smaller financial institutions and community banks. I thank all of the senators who have joined with us to move this forward, and look forward to continuing our work to achieve a robust, bipartisan legislative product.” The package is targeted toward helping community banks, credit unions, mid-sized banks, regional banks and custody banks. It includes important consumer protections, particularly for veterans, senior citizens and victims of fraud. Joining Senators Tillis and Crapo are Senators Bob Corker (R-Tennessee), Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Mike Rounds (R-South Dakota), David Perdue (R-Georgia), John Kennedy (R-Louisiana), Jerry Moran (R-Kansas), Joe Donnelly (D-Indiana), Heidi Heitkamp (D-North Dakota), Jon Tester (D-Montana), Mark Warner (D-Virginia), Tim Kaine (D-Virginia), Angus King (I-Maine), Joe Manchin (D-West Virginia), Claire McCaskill (D-Missouri), and Gary Peters (D-Michigan). Highlights of the agreed-upon package include: Improves consumer access to mortgage credit; Provides regulatory relief for small financial institutions and protects consumer access to credit; Provides specific protections for veterans, consumers and homeowners; and Tailors regulations for banks to better reflect their business models. For a section-by-section summary, click here. ###
11.10.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, issued the follow video message in honor of Veterans Day: Click HERE to watch the 30 second video. “On this Veterans Day, make an extra effort to thank a veteran and their family for their service to this great nation. We'll never be able to fully repay the debt that we owe them, but we can make a lot of installments as individual citizens to show our gratitude. As long as I'm in the U.S. Senate, I will continue to work on behalf of our veterans to ensure we fulfill the promises we made to them.” Earlier this week, Senator Tillis delivered a floor speech honoring our veterans. ###
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s trip to Asia: “President Trump is in the midst of a trip to Asia with several important goals, including addressing the threat of North Korea’s nuclear program and promoting U.S. exports throughout the region. We have been pleased to see the President reaffirm our economic and security partnerships with our allies in Japan and South Korea. In the coming days, the President will also visit China, Vietnam, and the Philippines – three countries that fail to respect the human rights of all their citizens. In China, activists are detained and the political opposition is silenced. In Vietnam, basic rights such as freedom of the press and freedom of religion are restricted. In the Philippines, a “war on drugs” has resulted in over 7,000 deaths, many via unlawful executions and extrajudicial killings. As co-chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, we urge President Trump to raise these human rights concerns and to promote the United States’ commitment to human rights and democratic values during his meetings with President Xi Jinping in China, President Tran Dai Quang of Vietnam, and President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines. The United States must continue to stand up for the oppressed around the world.” ###
11.09.2017	North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr applauded the Senate for unanimously confirming the nomination of Andrew Murray as U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Mr. Murray was nominated by President Trump at the recommendation of Senators Tillis and Burr. Since 2011, Andrew Murray has served as the elected District Attorney of Mecklenburg County. He also had a long and distinguished career in the United States Coast Guard, serving 35 years as an active duty and reserve officer. Mr. Murray earned his law degree from the University of North Carolina School of Law and began his law career at the Mecklenburg County District Attorney's Office, where he served as an Assistant District Attorney. “Andrew Murray has a decorated career in public service between his 35-year career in the United States Coast Guard and most recently as the District Attorney for the largest prosecutorial district in North Carolina,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I applaud the Senate for confirming Andrew and I look forward to him serving the people of Western North Carolina.” “I’m very pleased to see Andrew confirmed to be the next U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina,” said Senator Richard Burr. “I have the utmost confidence that he will serve the people of North Carolina well in this role, and I wish him all the best.” ###
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Senate Finance Committee released its tax reform proposal, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “The Senate has taken a big step toward passing tax reform that will lead to bigger paychecks for hardworking Americans and stimulate wages and jobs. I look forward to advancing this legislation through an open process so we can fulfill the promise we made to the American people to overhaul and modernize our tax code. I urge my more independent-minded colleagues on the other side of the aisle to ignore the reflexive, partisan opposition of Democratic leaders and instead work in a bipartisan manner to provide much-needed tax relief to hardworking families.” ###
11.09.2017	North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr applauded the Senate for unanimously confirming the nomination of Matthew Martin as U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina. Mr. Martin was nominated by President Trump at the recommendation of Senators Tillis and Burr. Mr. Martin has an impressive legal career and extensive involvement in the community. He earned his law degree from the University of North Carolina School of Law and is currently an Associate General Counsel for Duke Energy. “Matthew Martin is a highly qualified nominee with extensive legal experience that will be beneficial to the Middle District of North Carolina,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I applaud the Senate for confirming Matthew and look forward to him serving the people of the Middle District of North Carolina.” “Mr. Martin will make an excellent U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina, and I’m glad to see him confirmed unanimously by the Senate,” said Senator Richard Burr. “I know he will serve the people of North Carolina well for years to come.” ###
11.08.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, spoke on the Senate Floor about the need to support our nation’s veterans. Click HERE to watch the video. Click HERE to download the video.Tillis on thanking military families this Veterans Day:“I want to take a minute to talk about the person who served but never wore the uniform, and that's the husband or the wife or the children that on this Veterans Day we should also thank. By virtue of being a military spouse, you served, as did your children. On this Veterans Day, let's make sure we expand those thank you’s to include everybody who is affected when somebody is deployed to a dangerous place or even serving through peacetime. It is a great sacrifice and one we should always show our gratitude for.” Tillis on veterans in North Carolina:“In North Carolina we have about 800,000 veterans. We also have one of the highest military concentrations of any state. It's the home of the global response force at Fort Bragg with over 65,000 men and women serving, including 38 generals. If you go a little bit closer to the coast and get to Jacksonville, North Carolina we have Camp Lejeune, where nearly 45% of the Marine Corps is stationed. You could go to Seymour Johnson, New River, or Cherry Point and see these men and women serving every day and the ones who served before them who are now part of our veteran population. We should thank them all for their current service or their past service.” Tillis on supporting our veterans:“We'll never finish all the work we should do. We'll keep on making installments into a debt we can never repay. But what we need to do on November 11th is support our veterans by showing our gratitude and our thanks for their service. On this Veterans Day, take an extra effort to thank a veteran, thank a veteran spouse, and thank the child of a veteran for their service to this great nation. We'll never be able to fully repay the debt that we owe them, but we can make a lot of installments as individual citizens and as members of this Congress, and as long as I'm in the U.S. Senate that's what I intend to do.” ###
11.07.2017	Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, joined Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) to introduce bipartisan legislation to help families locate missing loved ones with Alzheimer’s disease, autism and related conditions. Kevin and Avonte’s Law (S. 2070), named in honor of two boys with autism who perished after wandering from safety, would also support training for caregivers to prevent and respond to instances of wandering. “I am proud to join Senators Grassley and Klobuchar in supporting Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which would will help save lives and give families across America a greater piece of mind,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation has a deep personal meaning for me, as I was a caregiver for my grandmother during her battle with Alzheimer’s disease. We should be moving heaven and earth to help families and caregivers reunite with loved ones who wander and disappear, and Kevin and Avonte’s Law can truly make a difference in preventing tragedies.” “The feeling of dread and helplessness families must feel when a loved one with Alzheimer’s or autism goes missing is unimaginable. But when communities are empowered to lend a hand, these terrifying situations can have happy endings. Kevin and Avonte’s Law, named for a boy from Jefferson, Iowa and a boy from New York City, makes resources available for technologies that advance the search for missing children, along with specialized training for caregivers and first responders to help prevent wandering by vulnerable individuals,” Senator Grassley said. “Families and caregivers should have the support they need to keep their loved ones with Alzheimer’s, autism, and other developmental disabilities safe. Working to help family caregivers has been one of my priorities since joining the Senate. Our bipartisan bill will help to educate and train caregivers to prevent wandering and provide our law enforcement officers with the tools they need to help recover missing loved ones,” Senator Klobuchar said. The bill, which passed the Senate by voice vote in the 114th Congress, is named in honor of two young boys diagnosed with autism who wandered away from supervised settings and drowned. One of the two, nine year-old Kevin Curtis Wills, died in 2008 after jumping into the Raccoon River near his home town of Jefferson, Iowa. The other, high school student Avonte Oquendo of Queens, New York, drowned in NYC’s East River in 2014. Six year-old Hamza Elmi of St. Cloud, Minnesota, who was also diagnosed with autism, drowned in the Mississippi River near his home in 2015. The bill would reauthorize the expired Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program, and broaden it to support people with autism and other developmental disabilities. Specifically, the bill would allow Justice Department grants to be used for state and local education and training programs to help prevent wandering and reunite caregivers with missing family members who have a condition linked to wandering. Under the bill, the grants can be used for the development of training and emergency protocols for school personnel, to supply first responders with additional information and resources, and for locative tracking technology programs to assist the families and caregivers of individuals who may wander from safety because of their condition. Grant funding may also be used to establish or enhance notification and communications systems for the recovery of missing children with autism. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) are also cosponsoring this legislation. The bill is supported by, among others, the Autism Society of Iowa, Autism Speaks, the National Autism Association, SafeMinds, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, ANCOR (American Network of Community Options), National Autism Society of America, the Alzheimer’s Impact Movement, the National Down Syndrome Society, and the Color of Autism Foundation. More information on Kevin and Avonte’s Law is available HERE. Bill text can be found HERE. ###
11.07.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the Senate Armed Services Committee for advancing the nomination of his Senior Advisor Robert Wilkie to serve as Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Senator Tillis introduced Mr. Wilkie at his nomination hearing last week. “There is no person more qualified for the position of Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and cares so deeply about improving the well-being of our men and women in uniform and their families,” said Senator Tillis. “I applaud the Senate Armed Services Committee for quickly advancing Robert’s nomination so he can be considered by the full Senate, and I hope he will be voted on soon so he can begin working on behalf of our servicemembers.” Background:Wilkie has served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since he took office in 2015, advising him on national security and military issues. Tillis currently serves as the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, which handles all quality of life issues for servicemembers and military families. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. Wilkie is a reserve officer assigned to the Joint Special Operations Command at Fort Bragg. He was previously assigned to the Headquarters of the United States Air Force. Prior to joining the Air Force, Wilkie served in the United States Navy Reserve with Naval Special Warfare Group Two and the Office of Naval Intelligence. Wilkie is a graduate of the College of Naval Command and Staff, Air Command and Staff College, the United States Army War College, and the Joint Forces Staff College. He is the recipient of the Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian award of the Department. Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, holds a Juris Doctor from Loyola University of New Orleans, a Master of Laws in International and Comparative Law from Georgetown University, a Master’s in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College, and an Honors degree in Politics from Wake Forest University. ###
11.06.2017	Last week, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, President Trump appointed Len McBride to lead the North Carolina Farm Service Agency (NC FSA) and Bob Chandler, Jr. to lead the North Carolina Rural Development office. Len McBride is currently an Agricultural Supervisory District Director with the NC FSA and is a long time employee of the Agency. He has significant experience working with farmers on the agricultural programs available through the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). “With nearly 50,000 farming operations in the state, Mr. McBride’s long history in the agricultural community makes him well qualified to lead the NC FSA and I believe he will be a tremendous asset to North Carolina’s producers,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “His extensive knowledge with both direct and guaranteed loans will be invaluable as the agricultural industry deals with low commodity prices, and I look forward to working with him to make the FSA experience an efficient and friendly process for our North Carolina farmers.” "Mr. McBride is an excellent choice to serve as North Carolina's USDA Farm Service Agency State Director," said Senator Richard Burr. "Len's nearly thirty years' experience working in the Farm Service Agency as a County and District Director will serve him and the people of North Carolina well. I look forward to confirming Mr. McBride as soon as possible." Bob Chandler, Jr. is a former USDA Rural Development employee. He currently works with farmers to navigate USDA regulations and their interactions with the Department. “Mr. Chandler has a proven record of increasing loan and grant production and building relationships between Rural Development and communities,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I applaud President Trump for appointing Bob to lead the North Carolina Rural Development office, and I look forward to working with him on economic development opportunities to assist our rural areas with water, electric, and communications infrastructure.” "Mr. Chandler's more than thirty years of experience working for and with USDA will be invaluable for this position," said Senator Richard Burr. "As North Carolina's USDA Rural Development State Director, Bob will be able to serve the people of North Carolina with knowledge and expertise that is unrivaled. I look forward to his consideration and confirmation by the U.S. Senate." ###
11.03.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced his Senior Advisor Robert Wilkie at his Senate Armed Services Nomination Hearing to serve as Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Mr. Wilkie was nominated to the position in July. Click HERE to watch the video. Click HERE to download the video. “Since February of 2015, it has been an honor to have someone of Robert’s caliber to serve on my staff,” said Senator Tillis. “There is not a day that goes by that Robert and I don’t talk about the readiness of the military and I cannot think of anyone more qualified for the position of Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. It is truly bittersweet to lose him on my staff, but Robert is going to be a great addition to the Department of Defense and I look forward to working with him in my capacity as Chairman of the Senate Armed Service Subcommittee on Personnel on behalf of the men and women in uniform.” Background:Wilkie has served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since he took office in 2015, advising him on national security and military issues. Tillis currently serves as the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, which handles all quality of life issues for servicemembers and military families. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. Wilkie is a reserve officer assigned to the Joint Special Operations Command at Fort Bragg. He was previously assigned to the Headquarters of the United States Air Force. Prior to joining the Air Force, Wilkie served in the United States Navy Reserve with Naval Special Warfare Group Two and the Office of Naval Intelligence. Wilkie is a graduate of the College of Naval Command and Staff, Air Command and Staff College, the United States Army War College, and the Joint Forces Staff College. He is the recipient of the Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian award of the Department. Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, holds a Juris Doctor from Loyola University of New Orleans, a Master of Laws in International and Comparative Law from Georgetown University, a Master’s in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College, and an Honors degree in Politics from Wake Forest University. ###
11.03.2017	North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr applauded the Senate Judiciary Committee for advancing the nomination of Matthew Martin as U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina this week. Mr. Martin, who was nominated by President Trump at the recommendation of Senators Tillis and Burr, now moves before the full Senate for consideration. Mr. Martin has an impressive legal career and extensive involvement in the community. He earned his law degree from the University of North Carolina School of Law and is currently an Associate General Counsel for Duke Energy. “Matthew Martin is a highly qualified nominee with extensive legal experience that will be beneficial to the Middle District of North Carolina,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I applaud the Judiciary Committee for confirming Matthew and urge the Senate to quickly approve his nomination so he can begin serving the people of North Carolina.” “Mr. Martin’s vast experience makes him well-suited to lead the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Middle District of North Carolina,” said Senator Richard Burr. “I’m pleased to see his nomination move forward in the Judiciary Committee, and I hope to see him quickly confirmed by the U.S. Senate.” ###
11.02.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), sent a bipartisan letter urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to ensure its commitment to affordable and reliable broadband for consumers in the hardest to reach communities across rural America. The senators wrote, “A lack of resources to meet our [shared national broadband] goals is undermining investment and consumer access to affordable broadband across much of rural America. For this reason, we write to encourage the FCC to take the much-needed step of addressing the High-Cost Universal Service Fund (USF) budget shortfall.” “Many of the providers that serve rural consumers and businesses in our states have already begun to feel the pain of an arbitrary budget cap on High-Cost USF support. We urge the FCC to take action as quickly as possible to ensure the High-Cost USF program provides sufficient and predictable support to help deliver affordable, high-quality broadband to rural consumers.” The effort has the support of key industry associations. Shirley Bloomfield, NTCA–The Rural Broadband Association CEO, said, “We are grateful to Sens. Moran, Roberts and Klobuchar for their leadership on rural broadband issues by urging the FCC to address the USF budget shortfall that is hampering the availability and affordability of broadband in rural America. They, and the other members of Congress that signed this letter, understand the critical role of a sufficiently funded high-cost USF program in promoting broadband investment and adoption. This bipartisan letter, sent at a time where the FCC is evaluating how to address the insufficiency of the current USF budget, highlights the continued dedication of Congress in making sure the USF mechanisms work as intended to prioritize consumers and close the digital divide for rural communities.” Derrick Owens, Vice President for Government Affairs of the Western Telecommunications Alliance (WTA), said, “WTA and its more than 340 small, rural-based telecommunications providers are grateful for the attention that this bipartisan group of Senators have brought to the important issue of rural broadband. The Universal Service Fund has been effective in bringing telecommunications and now broadband service to rural America, but if that is to continue funding must be sufficient and predictable for further broadband buildout and deployment. FCC Chairman Pai recently committed to address the sufficiency of USF and WTA looks forward to working with him and Congress on this matter." In addition to Tillis, Roberts, Moran, and Klobuchar, the letter was signed by Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisc.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.V.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.), Angus King (I-Maine), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Joe Manchin (D-W.V.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), James Risch (R-Idaho), Mike Rounds (R-S.D.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Luther Strange (R-Ala.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.). The full letter is below: Honorable Ajit Pai, Michael O’Rielly, Mignon Clyburn, Jessica Rosenworcel, Brendan Carr Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Commissioners: We applaud the efforts of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to streamline and strengthen the federal High-Cost Universal Service Fund (USF). This program is critical to achieving our shared national broadband goals and closing the digital divide. Yet, as we and many others have noted consistently in recent years, a lack of resources to meet these national goals is undermining investment and consumer access to affordable broadband across much of rural America. For this reason, we write to encourage the FCC to take the much-needed step of addressing this USF budget shortfall. Earlier this year, approximately 160 members of Congress raised similar concerns in letters to the FCC. Since these letters were sent, many providers have continued to experience a significant reduction in support. In the ensuing months, many of us have continued to press the FCC to resolve these concerns. We believe that the FCC is best positioned to identify a solution to the budget shortfall that is limiting access to reliable and affordable broadband in rural communities. While we recognize that a thoughtful long-term solution to the budget shortfall will take time and effort to identify and assess, many of the small providers that serve rural consumers and businesses in our states have already begun to feel the pain of an arbitrary budget cap on High-Cost USF support. We urge the FCC to take action as quickly as possible to ensure the High-Cost USF program provides sufficient and predictable support to help deliver affordable, high-quality broadband to rural consumers. At a minimum, we ask that you ensure that there is no reduction in funds allocated to or collected for the High-Cost program until you have reached a comprehensive solution to High-Cost funding. Thank you for your commitment to this important program and the millions of rural consumers who benefit from it. We look forward to both quick action and a comprehensive plan that effectively responds to this crisis. Sincerely, ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the House released its tax reform proposal, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “Reforming our nation’s tax code will lead to bigger paychecks for hardworking North Carolinians and Americans across the country by stimulating jobs and economic growth. The House proposal released today is an excellent step toward delivering on the tax reform the American people have been waiting for. In the weeks ahead, I look forward to working with my House and Senate colleagues to get a bill on the President’s desk.” ###
11.02.2017	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) introduced the Ceiling Fan Energy Conservation Harmonization Act, a commonsense bill that simplifies the implementation of two upcoming regulations that could pass on new costs to millions of American consumers if left unchanged. Companion legislation has been introduced in the House by Congressmen Richard Hudson (R-NC-08) and G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01). There are currently two regulations on efficiency requirements for ceiling fans that will be enforced one year apart from each other: light bulbs in January 2019 and motors in January 2020. These misaligned dates could create a significant problem for the industry when multiplied over thousands of stores, supply chain lead times, redundant employee work hours, and the transition of inventory. The separate timing of the regulations could result in wasted time and cost tens of millions of dollars in total resources, including duplicative labor, labeling, testing, and reversing and replacing product models. This would ultimately harm affordability and availability for American consumers. The Tillis-Heinrich legislation makes a simple change to streamline the enforcement of both regulations to the 2020 date, avoiding wasteful costs that could be passed onto Americans families. The residential ceiling fan market is roughly $1.8 billion, with 15 million units moved annually. “Our legislation represents a commonsense and bipartisan approach to addressing regulations, and recognizes that implementation can sometimes have an unintentionally negative impact on hardworking American families,” said Senator Tillis. “Our legislation makes one simple change to upcoming regulations that will help save millions of American consumers from a price increase on a product they need and depend on.” “Energy efficiency standards for ceiling fans and other appliances are a proven way to help consumers save money on their utility bills, while also lowering emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants,” said Senator Heinrich. “This bipartisan legislation is a smart approach to streamline compliance with the standards and avoid passing along unnecessary costs associated with implementation to American families.” ###
10.27.2017	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded the Senate Judiciary Committee for advancing the nomination of Andrew Murray as U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Mr. Murray, who was nominated by President Trump at the recommendation of Senators Tillis and Burr, now moves before the full Senate for consideration. “Andrew Murray has a decorated career in public service between his 35-year career in the United States Coast Guard and most recently as the District Attorney for the largest prosecutorial district in North Carolina,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I applaud the Judiciary Committee for confirming Andrew and urge the Senate to quickly approve his nomination so he can begin serving the people of Western North Carolina.” “Andrew Murray’s leadership abilities and legal expertise make him the ideal fit to lead the United States’ Attorney’s Office in the Western District,” said Senator Richard Burr. “He will make a fair, thoughtful United States Attorney, and it is my hope that he will quickly be confirmed.” Since 2011, Andrew Murray has served as the elected District Attorney of Mecklenburg County. He has long and distinguished career in the United States Coast Guard, serving 35 years as an active duty and reserve officer. Mr. Murray earned his law degree from the University of North Carolina School of Law and began his law career at the Mecklenburg County District Attorney's Office, where he served as an Assistant District Attorney. ###
10.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), along with Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Rob Portman (R-OH), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Al Franken (D-MN), and Brian Schatz (D-HI), led a bipartisan letter expressing concern to leaders in the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Prisons over the elimination of key programming in the Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) revised Statement of Work (SOW). The Senators, all of whom strongly support efforts to reform our federal prison system by focusing scarce federal resources on efforts that reduce recidivism and improve public safety, urged that these programs be reinstated. “We believe that these changes in programming and personnel will compromise public safety, decrease inmate accountability, and lead to increased recidivism rates,” the Senators wrote. “We also understand that the BOP is reducing its use of Residential Reentry Centers without explanation or advance notice to those most affected. As a consequence, inmates are spending more time in prison, being released directly from prison into the community without the necessary supervision, or spending insufficient time in transitional facilities. These changes, particularly in the absence of a justification, threaten to make our communities less safe while increasing BOP operating costs over time.” The full letter: October 26, 2017 Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein Office of the Deputy Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20530 Director Mark Inch Federal Bureau of Prisons United States Department of Justice 320 First Street NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and Director Inch: We are a group of United States senators who strongly support efforts to reform our federal prison system by lowering costs, reducing recidivism, and rehabilitating prisoners so that they can become productive members of society upon release. We write to express serious concerns about the Bureau of Prisons’ (BOP) revised Statement of Work (SOW) for Residential Reentry Centers (RRCs), which appears to eliminate Cognitive Behavioral Programming (CBP) and a Social Services Coordinator (SSC) position. We believe that these changes in programming and personnel will compromise public safety, decrease inmate accountability, and lead to increased recidivism rates. We also understand that the BOP is reducing its use of Residential Reentry Centers without explanation or advance notice to those most affected. As a consequence, inmates are spending more time in prison, being released directly from prison into the community without the necessary supervision, or spending insufficient time in transitional facilities. These changes, particularly in the absence of a justification, threaten to make our communities less safe while increasing BOP operating costs over time. Decades of research have shown that providing Cognitive Behavioral Programming in halfway houses reduces recidivism and results in significant savings to the taxpayer. Prison Social Services Coordinators have also played critical roles in facilitating inmates’ successful reentry into society by connecting them with employment and other resources through community partnerships and ensuring continuity of care. The long list of benefits deriving from these resources--including safer communities and reduced recidivism—far outweighs their costs. We urge you to reinstate Cognitive Behavior Programming and the Social Services Coordinator position into the revised Statement of Work and to refrain from decreasing the use of Residential Reentry Centers without transparency and adequate notice to interested parties. In addition, we ask that you provide staff for the undersigned senators with a briefing to explain the decisions underlying the revised Statement of Work and the reduction in residential re-entry center use. Thank you for your timely attention to this important matter. Respectfully, ###
10.26.2017	This week, bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to reauthorize, strengthen, and extend the Sexual Assault Forensic Registry program in an effort to help reduce the national rape kit backlog passed the Senate. “The SAFER Act takes an important step towards reducing the national rape-kit backlog, which in turn will help bring justice to victims and strengthen public safety,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to join this bipartisan effort and hope that the House will send this legislation to the President’s desk soon.” “This bill will empower law enforcement to identify and test more backlogged rape kits, help take criminals off the streets, and deliver justice for survivors,” Sen. Cornyn said. “I applaud the Senate for coming together to get this legislation over the finish line, and I urge my colleagues in the House to advance it quickly.” “The idea that we have evidence laying around in labs that we could be using to bring criminals to justice is unacceptable,” said Klobuchar. “Passing this bipartisan legislation in the Senate is an important step forward in providing more resources for our law enforcement." “Victims of sexual assault deserve swift justice and nothing less,” said Heller. “Today’s unanimous passage of this bipartisan bill represents an important step toward helping Nevada law enforcement in their efforts to cut down on the backlog of untested rape kits and ensure critical evidence isn’t left collecting dust. I’m proud to partner with Senator Cornyn on this legislation and see it garner wide, bipartisan support. As a strong supporter and author of proposals to crack down on these horrific crimes and aid victims on a path to recovery and closure, I urge the U.S. House to pass this bill and send it to the President’s desk.” “Law enforcement must have access to resources and training to process rape kits, so survivors of sexual violence receive the thorough and fair investigations they deserve,” Bennet said. “Colorado worked to end its backlog of rape kits in 2015 – a process that took two years and millions of dollars. The SAFER Act will help other states make the same progress and ensure justice is served. We applaud the SAFER Act’s passage in the Senate, and we encourage its speedy passage in the House.” The SAFER Act was introduced by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), John Cornyn (R-TX), Dean Heller (R-NV), and Michael Bennet (D-CO). Joining Senator Tillis as co-sponsors are Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Chris Coons (D-DE), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Rob Portman (R-OH), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Ted Cruz (R-TX), John Kennedy (R-LA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV). The legislation also ensures pediatric forensic nurses are eligible for training, which addresses the need for pediatric sexual assault nurse examiners in responding to children suffering from abuse. ###
10.26.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, received notification from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that they would not force U.S. institutions to follow the new European MiFID II regulations. “I applaud the SEC for protecting U.S. financial institutions from European rules that would cause chaos and harm to American business,” said Senator Tillis. “Forcing these new rules upon U.S. institutions would have turned operations upside-down, resulted in lost jobs, and added another impediment to companies seeking to enter the public markets. I will continue to work with the SEC to find a path forward that will address the conflict between American and European rules, and I thank Chair Clayton for his important work on this issue.” Background:In June, Senator Tillis wrote a letter to SEC Chairman Clayton about concerns surround MiFID II and the implications it would have on U.S. institutions. Senator Tillis received a letter in response from the SEC last month and was notified today that the SEC would not force the European regulations onto American institutions. According to the SEC, “the no-action relief provides a path for market participants to comply with the research requirements of MiFID II in a manner that is consistent with the U.S. federal securities laws. More specifically, and subject to various terms and conditions: (1) broker-dealers, on a temporary basis, may receive research payments from money managers in hard dollars or from advisory clients' research payment accounts; (2) money managers may continue to aggregate orders for mutual funds and other clients; and (3) money managers may continue to rely on an existing safe harbor when paying broker-dealers for research and brokerage.” ###
10.26.2017	Yesterday, bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) making it easier for family farmers to reorganize debts when facing bankruptcy received final approval in Congress and is headed to the president’s desk for signature. The Family Farmer Bankruptcy Clarification Act of 2017, introduced by Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Al Franken (D-MN), was included as part of the supplemental appropriations package approved in the Senate by a vote of 82-17. The measure would rectify a 2012 Supreme Court ruling on a previous bankruptcy reform law that ignored Congress’ express goal of helping family farmers. “Farmers in North Carolina and across the country are reeling from low commodity prices and natural disasters that will take years to recover from,” said Senator Tillis. “As these farmers rebuild their reserves, Congress must provide them protection during this delicate time when so much could go wrong that is outside of their control. I am proud to support this legislation that gives our farmers and their families relief, and I applaud Congress for sending this important legislation to the President’s desk.” “Family farmers face obstacles that others don’t when dealing with bankruptcy. Their assets are largely tied up in farmland, which creates significant challenges for these family operations when reorganizing debt. Years ago Congress took specific steps to address these disadvantages, but the Supreme Court failed to recognize Congress’ intent when evaluating the law,” Grassley said. “Thankfully Congress has now approved a fix for this problem and family farmers facing hard times can breathe a sigh of relief. I look forward to the president signing this bill into law.” "Our bipartisan bill is a commonsense fix to ensure that the law functions as intended and protects family farmers in Minnesota and across the country,” said Franken. “I’m glad this bill is set to become law and will help ensure farmers going through bankruptcy get a fair shake and are able to repay the debts they owe without sacrificing their families’ futures.” ###
10.20.2017	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded the Senate Judiciary Committee for advancing the nomination of Thomas Farr as District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Senator Tillis spoke at the Senate Judiciary Hearing in support of Mr. Farr, who now moves before the full Senate for consideration. Mr. Farr was nominated by President Trump at the recommendation of Senators Tillis and Burr. Watch video of Senator Tillis HERE. “Thomas Farr is well regarded across the political spectrum and has received a well-qualified rating from the ABA, the gold standard for many members in the Senate Judiciary Committee,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I applaud the Judiciary Committee for confirming Tom and urge the Senate to quickly approve his nomination so he can begin serving the people of Eastern North Carolina.” “I am pleased to see Thomas Farr’s nomination move one step closer to confirmation, and I look forward to his swift approval by the full Senate in order to fill this important vacancy,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Tom will undoubtedly serve the people of North Carolina well for many years to come.” Mr. Farr has extensive experience and is extremely qualified. He has tried cases in federal and state courts in North Carolina and has handled appeals at all levels of the North Carolina appellate courts, the Fourth and Sixth Circuit Courts of Appeal, and the Supreme Court. In 2006, Mr. Farr was nominated by President George W. Bush to fill the very same vacancy on the U.S. District Court, and the American Bar Association rated him as unanimously well-qualified. Mr. Farr received his B.L.S from Hillsdale College, received his J.D. from Emory University and holds an L.L.M. in Labor Law from Georgetown University.
10.19.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, attended a committee hearing on the oversight of the United States Justice Department with Attorney General Jeff Sessions. During the hearing, Senator Tillis asked Attorney General Sessions about ending Operation Chokepoint and the phase-out of DACA. Click HERE to watch the video. Click HERE to download the video. Background:In July, Senators Tillis and Crapo wrote a letter to the Justice Department about the predatory practices enacted during the Obama Administration that discourages banks from doing business with a wide-range of legitimate companies. The Senators received a response in August informing them that the Justice Department was committed to ending Operation Chokepoint.
10.19.2017	Today, bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to step up enforcement against perpetrators of crimes targeting senior citizens became law after receiving the president’s signature. The Elder Abuse Prevention and Protection Act of 2017, introduced by Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), passed by a voice vote in both the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives in August and October respectively. “We must do everything we can to stop all the forms of abuse and exploitation against senior citizens in North Carolina and across the country,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m proud this commonsense legislation has been signed into law by the President so we can prevent elder abuse and strengthen penalties against those who try to take advantage of our senior citizens.” “Families across America, including in Iowa, have been victimized by crimes targeting seniors, and as the population ages, we can expect more and more victims if we don’t act. The Elder Abuse Prevention and Prosecution Act takes meaningful steps to equip law enforcement, seniors and caregivers with additional tools so they can deter these crimes and hold perpetrators accountable,” said Senator Grassley. “I am glad that the Senate, the House and the president—Democrat and Republican alike—took action to address such a kitchen-table, personal dignity issue.” “Senior citizens and their loved ones deserve peace of mind and a sense of security during their golden years—not the constant threat of abuse and exploitation. Sadly, the breadth and invisibility of elder abuse present immense challenges to addressing these dangers. By raising awareness, improving prevention and increasing prosecution, this bipartisan victory will help combat the unconscionable nationwide scourge of elder abuse for years to come,” said Senator Blumenthal. Elder financial exploitation has been called “the crime of the 21st century.” Studies indicate that it could be the most widespread form of elder abuse, costing older Americans as much as $36 billion each year; and many seniors are reluctant to report the crime. This legislation expands data collection and information sharing to better prevent and respond to all forms of elder abuse and exploitation, including financial crimes against seniors. Specifically, the bill increases training for federal investigators and prosecutors and calls for the designation of at least one prosecutor in each federal judicial district who will be tasked with handling cases of elder abuse. It also ensures that the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Consumer Protection and the Justice Department will both have an elder justice coordinator. Finally, to deter future crimes against seniors, the bill increases penalties for perpetrators – including mandatory forfeiture. Last year, the bipartisan 3,000-member Elder Justice Coalition called the bill, “one of the most comprehensive and meaningful bills ever developed to address the rapidly increasing problem of elder financial abuse in America.” The bill also has the support of Consumers Union, SIFMA, the 60 Plus Association, the Alzheimer’s Association and the National Center for Victims of Crime, among others. Along with Tillis, Grassley and Blumenthal, the bill was cosponsored by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Susan Collins (R-Maine.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Bob Casey (D-Pa.) and Catherine Cortez-Masto (D-Nev.).
10.10.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) co-introduced a resolution honoring the life and achievements of Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook (1928 - 2017), who was the first African American to hold either a regular or tenured faculty appointment at a predominantly white southern college or university, and who passed away this year at the age of 88. Joining Senator Tillis were Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), and John Kennedy (R-La.) "Dr. Cook was an education pioneer who paved the way for more diversity among academic leaders at our nation's colleges and universities," said Senator Tillis. "North Carolina owes him a debt of gratitude for his vast contributions to Duke University, and I am honored to support this resolution that commemorates his life and many accomplishments." "Dr. Cook was a leader in education and social justice. He helped open doors for educators of different backgrounds to enter academia and have a voice at colleges and universities," said Senator Warren. "Dr. Cook's life and achievements deserve recognition in the United States Senate, and I am glad to join my colleagues to introduce a resolution in his name.""Dr. Cook's accomplishments as a scholar and luminary at Duke University marked an important milestone for diversity in academia," said Senator Burr. "I'm thankful that Dr. Cook called North Carolina home during his time at Duke, and proud that the Senate can recognize the great achievements of his life." "The life and career of Dr. Samuel DuBois Cook serves students, New Orleans, Louisiana, the United States, and the world. It is teachers such as he who shape our destiny," said Dr. Cassidy."Dr. Cook was president of Dillard University in New Orleans, La. for 22 years from 1974-1997. He was a trailblazer in education and broke down racial barriers at college and universities across the country," said Senator Kennedy. "I am proud to join my colleagues in honoring him in the U.S. Senate."Dr. Cook, born on November 21, 1928 in Griffin, Georgia, was a friend and classmate of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., attended Morehouse College and Ohio State University, served in the United States Army during the Korean War, and taught at multiple universities across the country. Dr. Cook taught at Duke University, where in 1966, he became the first African American to receive a tenure-track faculty appointment at a predominantly white southern college or university since Reconstruction. In 1974, Dr. Cook left Duke University to become president of Dillard University, a position he held for nearly 23 years."Like his mentor Benjamin Mays, former president of Morehouse college, Dr. Cook frequently has been described as ‘walking integrity'," said William A. "Sandy" Darity,Samuel DuBois Cook Professor of Public Policy at Duke University. "Dr. Cook was the quintessential scholar, activist and academic leader. Those three roles were indivisible for him. We appreciate the fact that the senators came together across the partisan divide to honor Dr. Cook. That's unusual in this day and age, and it's a testament to his legacy." "When asked about the role of Black colleges, Samuel DuBois Cook said ‘First of all, it plays the same role as any other university: to pursue academic excellence.' Dr. Cook's admonition to Dillard as well as the entire HBCU community continues to guide the work we do today," said Dillard University President Walter Kimbrough.The resolution states that Dr. Cook spent his life working for social justice and equality; distinguished himself as an educator, scholar, thinker, activist, and public servant; broke racial barriers in his field; endeavored to advance interracial harmony, and is considered to be a trailblazer who lived a life of integrity. ###
10.06.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after four soldiers from Fort Bragg were killed in Niger earlier this week: “The deaths of Staff Sgt. Bryan C. Black, Staff Sgt. Jeremiah W. Johnson, Staff Sgt. Dustin M. Wright, and Sgt. La David Johnson are a tragic reminder of the dangers facing our brave servicemembers as they combat terrorism across the globe to keep our country safe. Their sacrifices will not be forgotten, and Susan and I send our deepest condolences to their family, friends, and the Fort Bragg community.” ###
10.06.2017	This week, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Cotton (R-AK) introduced the Veteran Apprenticeship and Labor Opportunity Reform (VALOR) Act, legislation that would increase access to apprenticeship-training programs for military veterans. Specifically, it would streamline the certification process for non-federal apprenticeship programs based in more than one state. “Hiring veterans in the private sector should be as easy as possible, and Congress needs to do its part to increase opportunities for veterans in our workforce,” said Senator Tillis. “It is unnecessary to force businesses to register in every state of operation, and the VALOR Act is commonsense legislation that will reduce this burdensome requirement so apprenticeship programs will be more accessible to veterans.” “To make employers register their apprenticeship programs in every single state they operate in is a needlessly burdensome requirement. It also has the perverse effect of making it harder to hire veterans,” said Senator Cotton. “This legislation will cut through the red tape and help put more veterans in apprenticeship programs.” BackgroundUnder current law non-federal apprenticeship training programs located in multiple states have to register with each state approval agency individually, subjecting them to mountains of paperwork and multiple burdensome review processes. In response, employers have decided to limit their programs to a smaller number of states and, as a result, hire fewer veterans. The VALOR Act would amend current law to allow for a single, more streamlined approval process. Congressman Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jodey Arrington (R-TX), and Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. ###
10.04.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, attended a committee hearing examining the Equifax cybersecurity breach and questioned former Equifax CEO Richard Smith about the recent breach affecting 145 million Americans, including an estimated 4,520,059 North Carolinians. If constituents feel their information has been compromised, they may contact Senator Tillis at www.tillis.senate.gov. During his questioning, Senator Tillis urged Mr. Smith to release the stock disposition history of the executives who sold their stock before the breach became public and ensure Equifax is doing everything they can to make the process moving forward is as easy as possible on the consumers affected. Click HERE to watch the video. Click HERE to download the video. ###
10.06.2017	This week, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Cotton (R-AK) introduced the Veteran Apprenticeship and Labor Opportunity Reform (VALOR) Act, legislation that would increase access to apprenticeship-training programs for military veterans. Specifically, it would streamline the certification process for non-federal apprenticeship programs based in more than one state. “Hiring veterans in the private sector should be as easy as possible, and Congress needs to do its part to increase opportunities for veterans in our workforce,” said Senator Tillis. “It is unnecessary to force businesses to register in every state of operation, and the VALOR Act is commonsense legislation that will reduce this burdensome requirement so apprenticeship programs will be more accessible to veterans.” “To make employers register their apprenticeship programs in every single state they operate in is a needlessly burdensome requirement. It also has the perverse effect of making it harder to hire veterans,” said Senator Cotton. “This legislation will cut through the red tape and help put more veterans in apprenticeship programs.” BackgroundUnder current law non-federal apprenticeship training programs located in multiple states have to register with each state approval agency individually, subjecting them to mountains of paperwork and multiple burdensome review processes. In response, employers have decided to limit their programs to a smaller number of states and, as a result, hire fewer veterans. The VALOR Act would amend current law to allow for a single, more streamlined approval process. Congressman Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jodey Arrington (R-TX), and Beto O’Rourke (D-TX) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. ###
10.04.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, attended a committee hearing examining the Equifax cybersecurity breach and questioned former Equifax CEO Richard Smith about the recent breach affecting 145 million Americans, including an estimated 4,520,059 North Carolinians. If constituents feel their information has been compromised, they may contact Senator Tillis at www.tillis.senate.gov. During his questioning, Senator Tillis urged Mr. Smith to release the stock disposition history of the executives who sold their stock before the breach became public and ensure Equifax is doing everything they can to make the process moving forward is as easy as possible on the consumers affected. Click HERE to watch the video. Click HERE to download the video. ###
10.03.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, attended a committee hearing on the Administration’s decision to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and urged his colleagues to pass a solution for the DACA population. Last month, Senators Tillis, Lankford, and Hatch introduced the SUCCEED Act, a commonsense and merit-based solution for undocumented children to earn legal status if they work hard, follow the law, and pay their taxes. Click HERE to watch the video. Click HERE to download the video. Tillis on pairing DACA solution with border security:“What we really need is White House leadership on exactly what the six month timeline that the President has placed on Congress to do our jobs looks like. I, for one, hope it is an articulate, compassionate, firm response to provide certainty to the DACA population and a reasonable, sustainable, fiscally sound border security strategy. That seems to me to be a good step in the right direction after 30 years of failure of immigration reform in this country.” Tillis on need for Congress to find solution for DACA recipients:“We should be very clear that those who have significant misdemeanors or felonies will not receive any treatment in the solution we come up with because they disobeyed our laws when we gave them an opportunity to be here. For the vast majority of the DACA population we need to stop talking about it and solve it. There are great proposals where we can get together and provide a solution, but it is a disservice to this population when we know what the problem is, we know what a reasonable solution is, and we don’t provide it.” Tillis on DACA population in distressed areas:“DACA recipients that are in distressed areas like Texas, Florida, or Puerto Rico need a reasonable response because due to Congress’ inaction we have put them in an untenable position, so it should be on Congress to make this as smooth as possible.” ###
09.28.2017	Last night, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and James Lankford (R-OK) appeared on Fox News Tonight with Dana Perino to talk about the SUCCEED Act, a commonsense and merit-based solution for undocumented children to earn legal status if they work hard, follow the law, and pay their taxes. Click HERE to watch the video.TILLIS: “Those eligible can’t petition for their parents who actually entered the nation illegally…We really tried to make sure that there is no line cutting, that this is about the children that came across the border through their parents’ actions. That is a key component of addressing the chain migration concerns the many on our side of the aisle have.” TILLIS: “There’s a huge number of differences between the DREAM Act and the SUCCEED Act. One of the key parts of this bill is to make sure that we develop a social contract with these kids to make sure that they do succeed, and that we focus on the children. There is also another very important part about this bill. Both Senator Lankford and I believe that this has to be paired with border security and other measures to make sure that we prevent this from being a problem that we have to solve 10 to 12 years from now.” ###
09.28.2017	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded the Senate’s confirmation of Bobby Higdon to serve as the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina by voice vote. Mr. Higdon was nominated by President Trump at the recommendation of Senators Tillis and Burr. Mr. Higdon has a long and decorated career as a federal prosecutor and is highly respected throughout the state. He also has significant management experience as the former Chief of the Criminal Division in the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Mr. Higdon earned his law degree from the Wake Forest School of Law. He is currently a partner at Williams Mullen and resides in Cary, North Carolina. “I am proud the Senate confirmed Bobby Higdon to be the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Mr. Higdon has decades of prosecutorial experience and I have no doubt he will bring strong leadership to the U.S Attorney’s office in Eastern North Carolina.” “I am pleased the Senate confirmed Bobby Higdon to serve as the next U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “I know his experience as an Assistant U.S. Attorney will serve him well as he takes over the helm for the Eastern District. Bobby will undoubtedly serve the people of North Carolina with honor and distinction.” ###
09.28.2017	This week, the Niskanen Center released an economic analysis of the SUCCEED Act, introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), James Lankford (R-OK) and Orrin Hatch (R-UT). The SUCCEED Act a merit-based, long-term solution for undocumented children to earn legal status if they work hard, follow the law, and pay their taxes. The analysis from the Niskanen Center clearly demonstrates the SUCCEED Act is also great for the health of the American economy. Highlights of the analysis: The SUCCEED Act would create 117,000 new jobs. That is more jobs than the number of Americans employed by companies like Apple, Google, Microsoft, Coca-Cola, and Facebook. The SUCCEED Act would increase GDP by $81 billion over 10 years. The cumulative GDP boost is more than the annual GDP of more than 10 states. The SUCCEED Act would increase net federal revenue by $22 billion over 10 years. Under the SUCCEED Act, eligible immigrants will contribute $738 billion to gross domestic product (GDP) over a decade and $204 billion in net revenue to federal, state, and local governments. Additionally, a recent analysis conducted by the CATO Institute similarly concluded that the SUCCEED Act will have a revenue-generating and deficit-reducing impact: “…We find that that SUCCEED will boost revenues by about $94.7 billion above expenditures, in net present value, relative to keeping the DREAMers in illegal status along with a steady rate of deportation. These extra revenues would accrue to the federal, state, and local governments…This long-term projection and discounting guarantees that the future fiscal costs of entitlements and the descendants of the DREAMers are included. Our estimate is similar to another conducted by the Niskanen Center.” ###
09.27.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate Floor about the need to pass tax reform for the American people. Click HERE to watch the video. Click HERE to download the video. “Along the way we are going to have our challenges because everybody in Washington is for tax reform and tax relief. They'll come into your office and tell you, ‘let's get it going except for that one righteous exemption that I may need.’ We need to have the courage to pass tax reform that helps working families, creates jobs, and silences the people that want to take this exemption or that exemption away so we do what's right for the people that need a job. It's going to take courage, discipline, and time. We have to get it done. We promised the American people last year that if we had majorities that we would do what we had to do to deliver on this promise. And it can be done.” “Back in 2011, I was in my third term, Republicans got a majority, and I became Speaker of the House. It was reported to me that we had a $2.5 billion structural deficit, we had the fourth highest unemployment rate in the nation, and we had six months to figure out how to balance the budget. In the first six months that we were in the majority, we cut the sales tax and made changes to the corporate tax and income tax that took North Carolina from the 44th most taxed state now down to 12th. It was one of the worst-growing economies and now it ranks in the top five in the nation. We've created over 250,000 jobs and put North Carolina on the map by all measures. We got people back to work.” “So when we get into this argument, don't take the bait by some people who say we're focusing on corporate taxes— that somehow I’m a guy in a suit that's just trying to help out a business. Who that is, is a guy who has worked his way from that trailer park and is now in the United States Senate, a guy who benefited when Congress had the courage to reduce taxes and get the economy back on track. That's what we better do. That's what we promised. That's what we're here to do and now is the time to get it done.” ###
09.27.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the Senate Finance Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee’s release of their tax reform framework: “The initial tax reform framework is a great first step to overhauling our broken and antiquated tax code and allowing the American economy to unleash its full potential. I’m encouraged that the framework follows similar principles that we implemented in North Carolina: simplifying the tax code, lowering rates, and broadening the base. North Carolina’s tax reform has been incredibly successful, leading to more jobs, more revenue, and more growth. This success can be replicated at the national level, and it’s now time for Congress to get to work and fufill our promise to reform the federal tax code.” Earlier this month, Senator Tillis wrote an op-ed for the Wall Street Journal outlining the success tax reform has had on North Carolina’s economy. ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), James Lankford (R-OK), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced the Solution for Undocumented Children through Careers, Employment, Education, and Defending our nation (SUCCEED) Act, a commonsense and merit-based solution for undocumented children to earn legal status if they work hard, follow the law, and pay their taxes. The SUCCEED Act is earning bipartisan praise for its reasonable and realistic approach, and is also drawing support from the nation’s business community. U.S. Chamber of Commerce: “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is encouraged by the introduction of the SUCCEED Act by Senators Tillis and Lankford. The SUCCEED Act helps chart a path forward in making permanent the types of protections contained in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.” IBM: "We applaud @SenThomTillis, @SenatorLankford, @senorrinhatch for efforts to provide certainty for #Dreamers. #DACA" Former Democratic Governor and presidential candidate Howard Dean: “Sens. Lankford and Tillis have a Dreamer bill that is a good step. We need to find common ground with GOP on this. 780000 people depend on us.” Hispanic Leadership Fund President Mario H. Lopez: “The Hispanic Leadership Fund applauds Republican Senators Tillis, Lankford, and Hatch for introducing the SUCCEED Act. This bill is a great step toward a reasonable and constructive conservative solution to the Dreamer issue. We urge all Members of Congress to recognize that punishing kids for their parent’s actions is both misguided and counterproductive to improving the American economy as a whole, especially when those kids have been vetted and are productive members of society.” New American Economy President John Feinblatt: “This is a pragmatic approach that gets Congress closer to yes on immigration reform. Talented, hard-working young immigrants brought to our country as children have earned the chance to pursue the American Dream, and it makes economic sense to invest in their futures.” Niskanen Center President Jerry Taylor: “I applaud Senators Tillis and Lankford for demonstrating bold leadership and dedication in identifying constructive, conservative solutions to our nation’s most difficult problems. This permanent, legislative, Republican-led initiative protects Dreamers who work, study, or serve in the military. Republicans should embrace this historic opportunity to pass meaningful immigration reform.” TechNet President & CEO Linda Moore: “The clock is running on Dreamers, and March 5 will be here before we know it. We appreciate the sense of urgency Senators Tillis, Lankford, and Hatch are demonstrating on this issue and for putting forward a serious proposal for Congress to consider. Deporting 800,000 Dreamers would hurt our economy, and unrightfully punish children for the actions of their parents. Neither is good for America. It's time for Congress to act and make sure politics doesn't get in the way of providing relief for these young people.” National Immigration Forum Executive Director Ali Noorani: “Senators Tillis, Lankford and Hatch have offered a constructive, conservative solution to protect Dreamers from deportation, get them on the path to full integration into American society and help American workers. We look forward to working with the senators. Republicans and Democrats must find a legislative solution that ensures young people contributing to America can remain in the only country they know as home.” FWD.us: “We’re encouraged to see Senator Tillis, Senator Lankford, and Senator Hatch join President Trump and the 75% of Republicans who want Congress to pass legislation to allow Dreamers to stay permanently in the only country they know as home. No legislation is perfect, but it is critical that any bill that makes its way to the President’s desk ensures due process protections for these hardworking young people, and includes a reasonable pathway to citizenship. We need to be clear that talk and assurances mean nothing without a law signed into place, and we urge every single member of Congress to cosponsor bipartisan legislation to protect Dreamers without delay.” LIBRE Initiative: “A number of conservative lawmakers in the House and Senate have introduced legislative proposals to address this challenge. We are grateful for their leadership on this important issue. We believe that this proposal should be considered among those worthwhile reforms that have been set forward, and that Congress should seize the opportunity to debate and adopt a solution to the unilateral executive action imposed by President Obama, without regard to Congress.” ###
09.25.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), James Lankford (R-OK), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) held a press conference to introduce the Solution for Undocumented Children through Careers, Employment, Education, and Defending our nation (SUCCEED) Act, a solution to address the legal uncertainty facing undocumented children and young undocumented adults who were brought to the United States as children. Watch the video HERE. Download the video HERE. Download the audio HERE. The SUCCEED Act provides a fair but rigorous track for undocumented children to qualify for conditional permanent resident (CPR) status, requiring them to follow one or a combination of three specific pathways to earn and maintain their status once they become adults: being gainfully employed, pursing postsecondary or vocational education, or serving in the U.S. military. Read a two-page summary of the bill HERE. ###
09.25.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), James Lankford (R-OK), and Orrin Hatch (R-UT) introduced the Solution for Undocumented Children through Careers Employment Education and Defending our nation (SUCCEED) Act, a solution to address the legal uncertainty facing undocumented children and young undocumented adults who were brought to the United States as children. The SUCCEED Act provides a fair but rigorous track for undocumented children to qualify for conditional permanent resident (CPR) status, requiring them to follow one or a combination of three specific pathways to earn and maintain their status once they become adults: being gainfully employed, pursing postsecondary or vocational education, or serving in the U.S. military. To qualify for CPR status, undocumented children must first pass a rigorous vetting process. Eligibility and vetting requirements include: Arriving in the U.S. before the age of 16 and before June 15, 2012, the enactment date of DACA. Obtaining a high school diploma or equivalent, if 18 or older. Passing a rigorous criminal background check, which extends to information obtained from INTERPOL or the country of origin to screen for individuals with a criminal past or gang affiliation. Submitting biometric and biographic data to the Department of Homeland Security. Registering for the military selective service. Paying off any existing federal tax liabilities. Signing an acknowledgment that they will not be eligible for any form of relief or immigration benefit pursuant to the legislation if they are convicted of a crime while on CPR status. After five years of CPR status, individuals may renew their status for another five years if they fulfill their commitment to pursue at least one of the three merit-based pathways for a 48-month period and demonstrate good moral character. Individuals could lose their CPR status if they fail to fulfill their merit-based obligations, commit a felony or a serious misdemeanor, or become a “public charge” (defined by the USCIS as one who becomes primarily dependent on the government for subsistence). After 10 years of holding CPR status, individuals would be eligible to apply for Lawful Permanent Status (LPR) or a “green card” after paying off any tax liabilities. The bill requires green card holders to wait a minimum of 5 years before they are able to apply for naturalization if they choose to. Additionally, the SUCCEED Act prevents the parents of undocumented children from receiving benefits or preferential treatment, and prevents undocumented children from petitioning their parents. The bill also deters future illegal immigration by requiring future non-immigrant visa recipients to sign a waiver forfeiting any future immigration benefits if they violate the terms of their visa. “For years, Congress has tried but failed to provide legal certainty for undocumented children who were brought to the United States through no fault of their own,” said Senator Tillis. “The SUCCEED Act is a fair and compassionate solution that requires individuals to demonstrate they are productive and law-abiding members of their communities to earn legal status. This is a merit-based solution that should unite members of both parties, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on the path forward.” “It is right for there to be consequences for those who intentionally entered this country illegally,” said Senator Lankford. “However, we as Americans do not hold children legally accountable for the actions of their parent. President Trump rescinded the DACA executive action so that this issue could be resolved the right way – through legislation from Congress. It is time for Congress to stop ignoring the obvious problems with our border security and immigration system and stop pretending that this issue will resolve itself - it will not. To address the uncertainty facing children who were brought to America, the SUCCEED Act is a fair solution that gives them a place to call home, but it also discourages future illegal immigration." “I’ve said all along that we need a workable, permanent solution for the Dreamer population,” said Senator Hatch. “This bill provides that solution, in a way that ensures that Dreamers who want to stay in the United States long-term get their education and obtain gainful employment. Immigration is a difficult issue, but I’m convinced there’s a path forward on this, and I’m committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find that path and to enact meaningful reform—which must also include increased border security—into law.” ###
09.25.2017	
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan letter led by Senators Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) to call for immediate action to extend critical funding for community health centers before funding runs out at the end of this month. In a letter to the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Chairman and Ranking Member, Tillis, Stabenow, Blunt, and 58 other Senators expressed their strong support for community health centers, which provide access to cost-effective primary and preventive care for families across the country. “Without extension of the CHCF, community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding,” wrote the Senators. “This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and result in 9 million Americans losing their access to care…We are already hearing of the disruptive effects of the uncertainty created by the impending funding cliff on health center operations—this disruption will increase significantly without an extension of funding by September 30.” Community health centers operate in both rural and urban areas, in every state in the nation, and are an important health care provider. Last year, health centers were the medical home for one in twelve Americans, one in ten children, one in six Americans living in rural areas, and more than 330,000 of our nation’s veterans. In addition to Senators Tillis, Stabenow, and Blunt, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ), John Boozman (R-AR), Bernie Sanders (D-VT), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Tom Carper (D-DE), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Dean Heller (R-NV), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Rob Portman (R-OH), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Bill Nelson (D-FL), John Barrasso (D-WY), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Deb Fisher (R-NE), Jon Tester (D-MT), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), David Perdue (R-GA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Susan Collins (R-ME), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Jim Risch (R-ID), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tom Udall (D-NM), Angus King (I-ME), Gary Peters (D-MI), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Jack Reed (D-RI), Ed Markey (D-MA), Catherine Cortez-Masto (D-NV), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), John Kennedy (R-LA), John Hoeven (R-ND), and Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Bob Casey (D-PA). The full text may be found below. September 19, 2017 Senator Lamar Alexander Chairman Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Senator Patty Murray Ranking Member Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Alexander and Ranking Member Murray, We write today to share our strong support for community health centers and to urge swift resolution to the funding cliff community health centers face at the end of the month. Community health centers serve a critical role in communities throughout the United States and are important safety net providers. If Congress allows the Community Health Centers Fund (CHCF) to lapse, it would immediately threaten patient access to the cost-effective primary and preventive care health centers provide. We respectfully request you take immediate action to address CHCF funding. Community health centers have long enjoyed strong bipartisan support. Since their initial creation over fifty years ago, community health centers have been a critical component of the nation’s primary care network, today serving approximately 26 million patients at over 10,000 sites throughout the United States. Community health centers operate in both rural and urban areas, in every state in the nation, and are an important part of the health care ecosystem of their communities. Last year, health centers were the medical home for one in twelve Americans, one in ten children, one in six Americans living in rural areas, and more than 330,000 of our nation’s veterans. Congress’ previous investments in the community health center program have yielded real results and vastly improved the health and well-being of countless communities throughout the United States. Without extension of the CHCF, community health centers will lose seventy percent of their funding. This will result in an estimated 2,800 site closures, the loss of 50,000 jobs, and result in 9 million Americans losing their access to care. Along with the health center impact, the National Health Service Corps and the Teaching Health Centers Graduate Medical Education programs are at risk of expiry. As small businesses, health centers need predictability to secure financing for capital projects, to sign contracts, to recruit and retain providers and staff, and to sustain operations. We are already hearing of the disruptive effects of the uncertainty created by the impending funding cliff on health center operations—this disruption will increase significantly without an extension of funding by September 30. We believe the strong bipartisan support the community health center program receives every year is a strong indicator of the importance of the program to the nation. We stand ready to work with you to ensure that the CHCF continues to be a vibrant program that has improved the health and well-being of many of our nation’s most vulnerable individuals and communities. Thank you for your consideration of our thoughts. We stand ready to work with you to fund the community health center program to ensure no losses in health care access for the millions of Americans served by community health centers. ###
09.19.2017	The Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) applauded the Senate passage of their bipartisan legislation to help veterans who have been exposed to toxic burn pits as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018. The Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. “Many of our brave men and women in uniform were exposed to harmful substances from toxic burn pits in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we have an obligation to care for them,” said Senator Tillis. “Understanding the health effects associated with exposure to burn pits is the beginning of that commitment, and I am proud this provision was included in the final version of the NDAA’s Senate passage. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure this legislation is signed into law soon so we can begin providing resources to the VA and provide treatment to veterans who became sick after exposure.” “It took the government years after the Vietnam War to recognize that there was a link between Agent Orange and the devastating health effects on our soldiers. We can’t let history repeat itself—burn pits can’t become today’s Agent Orange,” Senator Klobuchar said. “That’s why passing this bipartisan bill to support our nation’s heroes - who served in Iraq and Afghanistan - along with their families, has remained one of my top priorities. We need to better understand and address the relationship between burn pit exposure and the health needs of our brave men and women in uniform, and this bill will help accomplish that.” The burning of waste on military bases exposed many service members to a variety of potentially harmful substances. Plastic, aerosol cans, electronic equipment, human waste, tires, and batteries were thrown into open pits, often doused with jet fuel, and set on fire. As a result, many deployed soldiers were exposed to smoke from these open-air burn pits. Health effects from exposure to chemicals found in burn pits may include cancer, neurological effects, reproductive effects, respiratory toxicity, and cardiovascular toxicity. Troops who have worked in these areas are subject to higher rates of asthma, emphysema, and rare lung disorders. Original co-sponsors of this legislation include Senators Mike Rounds (R-SD), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Al Franken (D-MN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). Klobuchar and Tillis also introduced this legislation in the last Congress. ###
09.18.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the Senate passage of the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included several key provisions introduced by Senator Tillis that will make critical improvements to Camp Lejeune and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, provide an across the board pay raise for servicemembers, and implement important reforms that will make life easier for military families. Senator Tillis chairs the Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel , which has oversight over half of the Pentagon’s budget. On a bipartisan basis, Senator Tillis and his subcommittee colleagues pushed through an across the board 2.1% pay raise for our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. The subcommittee also championed major changes in TRICARE that would benefit North Carolina’s Guardsmen and Reservists. “The Senate passage of the NDAA reaffirms our nation’s commitment to supporting the brave men and women in uniform and reestablishes America’s commitment to a strong national defense and protecting its interest abroad,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that my provisions to upgrade Camp Lejeune and Cherry Point, improve military family readiness, and direct the DoD & VA to collaborate closely on establishing interoperability with the new Electronic Health Record are included. I want to thank my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee for this bipartisan effort that will positively affect our North Carolina installations, servicemembers, and military families.” The Senate version of the NDAA contains the following provisions that were secured by Senator Tillis: Helping veterans exposed to toxic burn pitsThe Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) earlier this year that would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. Last year, Klobuchar testified before the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee to discuss the need to dedicate staff and resources to exposure diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of health. Requiring DOD Report on Cyber Security Risks to National Electric GridThe Securing the Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) earlier this year that would require the Department of Defense (DOD) to issue a one-time report on significant security risks to the national electric grid and the effects of those risks on military readiness. Modernizing the DoD & VA healthcare collaborationEarlier this year, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin announced that the VA will adopt the same Electronic Health Record (EHR) system as the Department of Defense for veterans’ medical records. Tillis’ provisions expand authority and allow military treatment facilities to provide health care to servicemembers, dependents, veterans and civilians. The services can maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills while also providing state of the art specialty care to underserved medical communities. Tillis’ provisions would: Require the Secretary of Defense to conduct a pilot program to establish integrated health care delivery systems among the military health system, other federal health systems, and private sector integrated health systems. Require a Comptroller General report of Department of Defense measures to maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills and core competencies of health care providers. Expanded Eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select and TRICARE Retired Reserve Expands eligibility for TRICARE to allow Guardsmen and Reservists who are eligible for the Federal Employees Health Benefit to purchase TRICARE Reserve Select or TRICARE Retired Reserve. Military Family Readiness Authorizes $25 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities. Authorizes $1 million for a pilot program to develop a public-private partnership on military spousal employment. Authorizes $1 million for a pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities on military installations outside the United States. FY18 Military Construction Budget for North Carolina Camp Lejeune Tillis’ provisions allow Camp Lejeune to make much needed improvement to the living quarters and other essential facilities. $37.983M – Bachelor Enlisted Quarters $65.784M – Water Treatment Plant Replacement Hadnot Point $15.3M – Ambulatory Care Center Addition (Defense Health Agency) $21.4M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $22.0M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $10.8M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $20.539M – SOF Motor Transport Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $64.29M – Radio Battalion Complex, Phase 2 $258.09M – Total Cherry Point Tillis’ provisions for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point guarantees the construction of the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility and secures the future home of F-35B Joint Strike Fighters in North Carolina. $15.671M – F-35B Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility $15.671M – Total Seymour Johnson Tillis’ provisions paves the way for a squadron of KC-46 Air Force Tankers. $6.4M – KC-46A ADAL for Alt Mission Storage $20.0M – Tanker Truck Delivery System (Defense Logistics Agency) $26.4M – Total Fort Bragg $20.26M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $13.518M – SOF Support Battalion Admin Facility (SOCOM) $20.0M – SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $4.0M – SOF Telecom Reliability Improvements (SOCOM) $57.778M – Total North Carolina Total$357,947,000 ###
09.15.2017	Yesterday, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) that streamlines and eases the burden on the process whereby active-duty military, reservists and veterans apply for their commercial driver’s license passed out of the Senate unanimously. “The brave men and women that serve in the U.S. military learn a wide-range of skills applicable to jobs once they enter the civilian workforce, but too often face unnecessary barriers that makes it harder for them to find jobs,” said Senator Tillis. “I applaud my colleagues for passing this legislation that allows our active-duty military, reservists, and veterans to apply the experience they gained serving our nation in a civilian capacity and not force them to go through a duplicative credentialing process to obtain a commercial driver’s license.” “Our servicemembers already face obstacles when looking to enter the civilian workforce, and it’s important we make it easier to apply their unique training and skills to employment in certain fields,” said Senator Cornyn. “This legislation would help streamline application requirements that are similar to those they already passed during their time in the military. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to move this legislation forward.” "Veterans who have the training and experience to operate heavy trucks and buses under tough conditions in the military have the skills needed to drive trucks on our highways," Senator Warren said. "By removing legal obstacles delaying servicemembers from getting commercial drivers' licenses, this bipartisan bill will help veterans looking for good jobs and will help employers looking for talented employees. I’m glad the Senate passed this bill and hope the House will take it up soon." Background: The latest surface transportation reauthorization bill, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, directed the Secretary of Transportation to establish a unique, streamlined set of standards for veterans applying for a CDL. The standards exempt veterans from all or a portion of civilian commercial vehicle driving tests if that veteran had experience driving similar vehicles while in the armed forces or reserves. Additionally, the standards allow veterans’ formal military training to count as credit towards the commercial motor vehicles minimum requirements to obtain a license. However, the FAST Act did not include active-duty members of the military and reservists in their application of standards for veterans with previous training in military driving. To correct this, the Department of Transportation (USDOT) granted a two-year exemption allowing states to waive the commercial driver’s licenses knowledge test for current service members, reservists, and national guardsmen if they completed military heavy-training programs and had been regularly employed in a military position requiring the operation of heavy vehicles within the past year prior to their application. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 makes the USDOT’s two-year exemption permanent, providing active-duty service members and reservists the same training and testing standards granted to veterans under the FAST Act. The Senators’ legislation also makes it easier for veterans to receive the DOT-required health examination to hold a commercial driver’s license. The FAST Act contained a provision requiring USDOT and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to collaborate and develop a streamlined and efficient process whereby VA physicians can join the National Registry for Certified Medical Examiners (NRCME). USDOT requires that all CDL holders be examined by physicians certified by the NRCME. Currently, there is an extremely low number of physicians in the VA health system certified by the NRCME, forcing veterans to either travel exorbitant distances to see a CME or pay out of pocket for a non-VA medical professional. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 Act allows all qualified VA medical professionals, including advanced practice nurses and physician assistants, to use the same new process afforded to VA physicians. ###
09.13.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Brian Schatz (D-HI), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Chris Coons (D-DE) to introduce the Marijuana Effective Drug Studies (MEDS) Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation that would make it easier for researchers to study the medical effectiveness and safety of marijuana. “When it comes to our nation’s efforts to cure diseases and improve the quality of life for people suffering from ailments, burdensome government regulations shouldn’t be an impediment to legitimate and responsible medical research,” said Senator Tillis. “The MEDS Act is a commonsense, bipartisan effort to remove unnecessary barriers that will give scientists the ability to study the biochemical processes, impact, dosing, risks and possible benefits of cannabidiol and other components of the marijuana plant.” There is a lack of research evaluating the benefits and risks of the therapeutic compounds extracted from the marijuana plant as a possible medication, in large part because of federal barriers that block valuable scientific and clinical research. As a result, millions of Americans are using a drug for medical purposes without scientific guidance with regards to its effectiveness, safety, dosing, route of administration, or standards for quality control. The MEDS Act promotes scientific research and mitigates a significant public health risk. ###
09.13.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the United States Air Force’s decision to select Seymour Johnson Air Force Base as the Main Operating Base for a KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron. The announcement was made by the Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson. “The addition of 12 KC-46A tanker aircraft at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base is a testament that North Carolina continues to be the tip of the spear for the U.S. military,” said Senator Tillis. “This decision is the result of the work being done by the men and women at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base and the people of Goldsboro and Wayne County.” In 2015, the Air Force selected Seymour Johnson Air Force Base as the preferred location for Main Operating Base 3 and a subsequent environmental impact study found no significant impacts. Senator Tillis recently secured two provisions in the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that provided funds necessary for military construction at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base required for the KC-46A tanker aircraft. This decision will transition the existing Reserve Air Refueling Wing from KC-135R aircraft to KC-46A with 12 Aircraft planned to be assigned to the base. Aircraft delivery is expected, pending contractor delivery schedule, the second quarter of FY2020. The KC-46A is a multirole tanker that can refuel all U.S., allied, and coalition military aircraft compatible with international aerial refueling procedures. Boeing designed the KC-46 to carry passengers, cargo, and patients. The aircraft can detect, avoid, defeat and survive threats using multiple layers of protection. The KC-46A will replace the older KC-135 Stratotankers fleet of the 916th Air Refueling Wing at Seymour Johnson. The 916th ARW is one of the most honored flying units in the Air Force and the Pegasus will enhance the wing’s global mission to support U.S. forces and NATO allies in air-to-air refueling, cargo and passenger hauling and aeromedical evacuation. ###
09.13.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced the Securing the Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act of 2017, legislation that would require the Department of Defense (DOD) to issue a one-time report on significant security risks to the national electric grid and the effects of those risks on military readiness. "As the global threats evolve and our adversaries continue to develop new ways to attempt to disrupt our military operations, it is important to recognize our key vulnerabilities," said Senator Tillis. "This bipartisan legislation will ensure defense leaders can identify and understand any vulnerabilities to our electrical infrastructure so we can protect DoD assets and installations from potential threats." "The success of our military operations depends significantly upon maintaining a stable and secure electrical grid here at home," said Senator Warren. "This legislation would help address critical vulnerabilities in our electrical infrastructure to further strengthen our military readiness." The Securing the Electric Grid to Protect Military Readiness Act would require the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, to submit a report to Congress identifying significant cybersecurity risks to critical defense infrastructure, assessing the potential effects of such risks on the readiness of America's Armed Forces, evaluating the strategic benefits and challenges of isolating military infrastructure from the electric grid, and recommending a path forward to address these security risks. ###
09.08.2017	Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Andrew Murray to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Since 2011, Andrew Murray has served as the elected District Attorney of Mecklenburg County. He has long and distinguished career in the United States Coast Guard, serving 35 years as an active duty and reserve officer. Mr. Murray earned his law degree from the University of North Carolina School of Law and began his law career at the Mecklenburg County District Attorney's Office, where he served as an Assistant District Attorney. “Andrew Murray has done an outstanding job as the District Attorney for Mecklenburg County and has been an effective leader in his community,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Andrew has a decorated career in public service between his 35-year career in the United States Coast Guard and most recently as the District Attorney for the largest prosecutorial district in North Carolina, and I am pleased that he will continue serving the Western District of North once he is confirmed.” “I am proud to see Mr. Murray’s nomination to be U.S. Attorney in North Carolina,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Mr. Murray’s career has centered on public service, from his three decades in the United States Coast Guard to his most recent role as the District Attorney of Mecklenburg County. I am confident that Mr. Murray’s leadership abilities and professional experiences make him an excellent fit for this next step in public service.” ###
09.08.2017	Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Matthew Martin to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina. Mr. Martin has a long legal career and extensive involvement in the community. Mr. Martin earned his law degree from the University of North Carolina School of Law and is currently the Associate General Counsel for Duke Energy. “Matthew Martin is a highly qualified nominee and I am confident he will make an effective U.S. Attorney,” said Senator Tillis. “Mr. Martin has extensive legal experience that will be beneficial as he serves the Middle District of North Carolina, and I look forward to his quick confirmation.” “Mr. Martin is an excellent choice for U.S. Attorney in North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “His vast experience in the private sector have prepared him well to bring a fresh perspective to the Middle District Attorney’s Office. I know Mr. Martin is well suited for the job and I look forward to a prompt nomination process so he can get in place as quickly as possible.” ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded Secretary Ryan Zinke and the Department of the Interior for releasing $4 million that was appropriated to Swain County in 2012 but never transferred. Senator Tillis has worked alongside Secretary Zinke and his staff to lead the effort in securing the $4 million that was appropriated to them as part of a $52 million settlement owed to Swain County by the federal government and has submitted appropriations requests for FY 17 and FY 18 to secure the remaining $35.2 million. “I want to thank Secretary Zinke and his team for their leadership to ensure Swain County receives their long-overdue payment that is owed to them by the federal government,” said Senator Tillis. “This is an issue I have been working on since I was sworn in to the U.S. Senate, and I will continue to work with Swain County, Congress, and the Department of the Interior to advocate for the rest of the money they are owed is appropriated and repaid to them as promised.” "One of my top priorities as your Secretary of the Interior is making sure the federal government is a good neighbor and a good land manager for federal lands like national parks and battlefields. Making sure Swain County received the funds from the Department of the Interior was key," said Secretary Zinke. "Senators Tillis and Burr and Rep. Meadows made sure this project did not get lost in the paperwork. I'm grateful for their tenacity on behalf of North Carolina." Background: In the early 1940’s the federal government flooded several communities in Swain County to build the Fontana Dam. In 1943 the federal government promised to rebuild the 30-mile North Shore Road that was flooded to build the dam. The government failed to deliver on that promise and in 2007 agreed to a cash settlement of $52 million. In 2010 the Department of the Interior, Swain County, the State of North Carolina and Tennessee Valley Authority entered into a “Memorandum of Agreement” to “settle any and all claims under the 1943 Agreement.” To date, the county has only received $12.8 million. The $4 million that is being released today comes from the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 that included the North Shore Road in the prioritized project list for the Park Service. This money was never appropriated because Department of the Interior argued that had they did not have the legal authority to do so. ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the administration’s expected announcement to phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, and on his intention to introduce legislation addressing the legal status of undocumented children: “Immigration policy must be set through legislation, not executive orders. That was the fundamental flaw underpinning DACA and the reason it’s highly unlikely to survive a legal challenge. President Trump is wisely giving Congress a period of time to fulfill its responsibility to legislate and take long-term action to address the uncertainty facing undocumented children, who were brought to America through no fault of their own. “In the next week, I’ll be introducing legislation that will provide a fair and rigorous path for undocumented children to earn legal status by requiring them to be employed, pursue higher education, or serve in our Armed Forces. I know this kind of commonsense legislative fix can and should unite members of Congress, and I’ll be working closely with my colleagues on the path forward. It’s up to my Democratic colleagues to decide whether they want a permanent solution or to make this a political wedge issue. I hope they’ll choose bipartisanship.” ###
08.30.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement following President Trump’s speech on tax reform: "I applaud President Trump for laying out principles for tax reform that include simplifying the tax code, cutting rates, and producing economic growth. In 2013, North Carolina passed historic tax reform based on these principles, which has helped create more than 300,000 jobs and turned North Carolina’s economy into one of the fastest growing in the entire nation. I look forward to working closely with the President and Congressional leaders to fulfill our promises to deliver tax relief to hardworking families and business owners that will provide them with an even better chance to achieve the American Dream." ###
08.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement following President Trump’s speech on America’s strategy in Afghanistan and South Asia: “For nearly two decades, America’s finest–our brave men and women in uniform–have risked and sacrificed their lives in the global effort to rid the world of radical jihadist terrorism. While we have made significant progress, we cannot afford Afghanistan to now be turned into a safe haven for ISIS, Al-Qaeda, and the Taliban,” said Senator Tillis. “I applaud the President for clearly defining America’s objectives in Afghanistan and South Asia, which will help promote peace and stability in the region and ultimately make us safer here at home.” ###
08.11.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) led a bipartisan group of senators urging the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) to not impose tariffs that would negatively affect the American solar industry. In a letter to Chairman Rhonda Schmidtlein, the lawmakers—who both represent states that have a growing solar industry—expressed their deep concern with the pending Section 201 global safeguard case regarding solar cell and module manufacturing in the United States. The ITC will hold a public hearing on the matter on Tuesday next week. "The petition requests that the President impose high tariffs on imported solar cells and high minimum prices for imported solar modules. As part of the U.S. International Trade Commission's investigation, we respectfully request that you also consider if the proposed trade remedies would negatively affect the American solar industry," wrote the Senators. The solar industry is now booming across the nation. According to the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) and the Solar Foundation's 2016 Solar Jobs Census, 9,000 solar companies employed over 260,000 American workers. One out of every 50 new jobs added by our economy in 2016 was a solar job. "Solar companies in our states believe the requested trade protection would double the price of solar panels. Increasing costs will stop solar growth dead in its tracks, threatening tens of thousands of American workers in the solar industry and jeopardizing billions of dollars in investment in communities across the country," continued the Senators. "According to SEIA, more than 88,000 American solar jobs could be lost next year if the proposed tariffs are imposed. Moreover, GTM Research estimates the tariffs would cut the demand for solar projects in half over the next five years. These tariffs would especially hurt residential rooftop solar projects that are growing rapidly. The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates that small-scale solar generation nearly doubled from 2014 to 2016." In addition to Senators Tillis and Heinrich, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), David Perdue (R-GA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Dean Heller (R-NV), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Tim Scott (R-SC), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Angus King (I-ME), Susan Collins (R-ME), Ed Markey (D-MA), and Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV). A similar letter was sent by a number of members in the U.S. House of Representatives. The full text of the senators' letter is below and can be downloaded here. August 11, 2017 The Honorable Rhonda K. Schmidtlein Chairman U.S. International Trade Commission 500 E Street, SW Washington, DC 20436Re: Investigation TA-201-75Dear Chairman Schmidtlein: As U.S. Senators representing states that have a growing solar industry, we write to express our deep concern with the pending Section 201 global safeguard case regarding solar cell and module manufacturing in the United States. The petition requests that the President impose high tariffs on imported solar cells and high minimum prices for imported solar modules. As part of the U.S. International Trade Commission's investigation, we respectfully request that you also consider if the proposed trade remedies would negatively affect the American solar industry. The solar industry is now booming across the nation. According to the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) and the Solar Foundation's 2016 Solar Jobs Census, 9,000 solar companies employed over 260,000 American workers. One out of every 50 new jobs added by our economy in 2016 was a solar job. However, all of the tremendous growth in solar investments, installations, and jobs could be in danger if the trade case causes solar prices to spike significantly. Solar companies in our states believe the requested trade protection would double the price of solar panels. Increasing costs will stop solar growth dead in its tracks, threatening tens of thousands of American workers in the solar industry and jeopardizing billions of dollars in investment in communities across the country. According to SEIA, more than 88,000 American solar jobs could be lost next year if the proposed tariffs are imposed. Moreover, GTM Research estimates the tariffs would cut the demand for solar projects in half over the next five years. These tariffs would especially hurt residential rooftop solar projects that are growing rapidly. The U.S. Energy Information Administration estimates that small-scale solar generation nearly doubled from 2014 to 2016. Again, we respectfully request that the Commission carefully consider the potential negative impact that the high tariffs and minimum prices requested would have on the tens of thousands of solar workers in our states and on the hundreds of companies that employ them. Sincerely, ###
08.04.2017	Building America’s Trust Act Utilizes Infrastructure, Technology, and Personnel to Help Secure Border, Facilitate Trade, and Strengthen Enforcement of Existing Law WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Vice Chair of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration, joined Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), John Barrasso (R-WY), and Ron Johnson (R-WI) to co-introduce the Building America’s Trust Act, legislation that increases resources at our borders, boosts trade through ports of entry, and strengthens enforcement of existing laws. “Our government’s prolonged failure to secure the border has had severe consequences, including creating a humanitarian crisis and contributing to the rise of dangerous narcoterrorist organizations that have exacerbated our nation’s heroin and opioid epidemic,” said Senator Tillis. “The Building America’s Trust Act makes the investment we need in personnel, technology and infrastructure to secure our borders and ports of entry and reduce threats to our national security.” “For too long law enforcement on the front lines haven’t had the tools they need to stop the flow of illegal immigration, and this bill will provide both the resources and plan to finally secure the border,” said Sen. Cornyn. “This legislation requires DHS to work together with the communities they serve, and helps boost the flow of commerce through our ports so trade can continue to flourish. I’m grateful for the partnership of my colleagues on this legislation, and I look forward to continuing to work with folks in Texas and Congress to advance this bill.” “Until our borders are fully secure, the current system will continue to reward people who enter our country illegally over those who follow the law,” said Sen. Barrasso. “This bill will make sure our immigration officers have the tools and resources they need to enforce our laws and secure our borders.” “The first step in securing our borders and reforming our immigration system is to eliminate the incentives for individuals to enter the country illegally. By closing current loopholes in immigration enforcement, hiring more border security personnel, and deploying additional technology and tactical infrastructure, the Building America’s Trust Act will mitigate threats to our country by helping to secure the border,” said Sen. Johnson. Earlier this year, Senator Tillis joined Senator Cornyn, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration, on a trip along the U.S. Southern Border learn about border security, trade, and economic development issues unique to the region. The Building America’s Trust Act has been endorsed by the National Border Patrol Council, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Coalition, Southwestern Border Sheriff’s Coalition, Texas Border Sheriff’s Coalition, and National Sheriffs’ Association. ###
08.04.2017	Reports Show Expanding Program Would Reduce Prison Costs, Improve Public Safety WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of senators to call on Acting Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) Director Thomas Kane and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to review and explain their plans to follow recommendations from the Department of Justice Inspector General to expand the use of compassionate release, a program that provides low-risk, elderly or terminally ill inmates the opportunity to appeal for early release if they meet specific criteria. Multiple reports have shown that the careful and appropriate use of the program would save millions in medical care spending, free up much-need resources for the federal prison system, and improve public safety. “BOP needs to take a hard look at expanding the use of compassionate release of certain federal prisoners as a way to focus scarce BOP resources and improve public safety,” the senators wrote. “BOP should make the compassionate release process more efficient and use that authority to the full extent provided by the Commission’s guidance.” Senator Tillis joined Senators Brian Schatz (D-Hawai‘i), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), and Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) on the letter. The full text of the letter follows: Dear Acting Director Kane and Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein: We are writing to ask that you take a serious look at the Bureau of Prison’s (BOP) use of compassionate release. We would also appreciate it if you would provide us data on compassionate release and an explanation of BOP’s plans to increase the use of compassionate release based on the recently revised guidance issued by the U.S. Sentencing Commission (the Commission). Congress authorized compassionate release in the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. It allows federally incarcerated people to appeal for early release if they present certain “extraordinary and compelling” reasons. Upon approval of the request, BOP makes a motion to a federal judge for a sentence reduction. The Commission sets the “extraordinary and compelling” criteria, which include, but are not limited to, age and terminal illness. The program essentially allows BOP to seek the release of certain elderly and terminally ill inmates, as well as those with special family circumstances, before the end of their prison sentences rather than keep those inmates in prison when they are no longer a significant risk to the community and when they are draining away substantial and valuable BOP resources. In a 2013 report, the Department of Justice (DOJ) Inspector General (IG) reviewed BOP’s use of compassionate release and recommended reforms to the program. In another report, the IG found that federal prisons house an increasingly large number of aging individuals who often have serious medical conditions, and that medical care is one of the biggest expenses of the federal prison system. The IG pointed out that using compassionate release will help address rising prison spending, a serious concern, especially in our current budget environment. The elderly are the fastest growing population in federal prison, expected to represent 28% of the total population by 2019. Incarceration costs for the elderly and terminally ill in prisons are substantially greater than for the general population. In fiscal year (FY) 2015, BOP spent $1.1 billion on medical care for incarcerated people, an increase of nearly 30% in 5 years. BOP’s budget request for FY 2018 represents 29.9% of DOJ’s overall budget. The appropriate use of compassionate release also should not impact public safety. People released under compassionate release have a 3.5% recidivism rate, the lowest rate among all those formerly incarcerated. Additionally, incarcerated individuals 50 years and older have a 15% re-arrest rate, compared to a 41% re-arrest rate for the general federal prison population. After the issuance of the IG’s report, BOP adopted new policies to expand its criteria for compassionate release, delineating three categories of applicants: medical, non-medical, and age-based. BOP also attempted to streamline its process for considering petitions under compassionate release. However, as the IG report found, BOP did not have clear standards or a formal timeline standard when making its compassionate release decisions. At a 2016 hearing before the Commission, the IG related that in the 13 months since BOP’s changes, “93 elderly inmates applied under the non-medical provision, resulting in 2 releases, while none of the 203 elderly inmates who applied under the medical provision had been approved for release.” Due in part to the fact that the BOP brought very few motions for compassionate release, in November 2016, the Commission amended its sentencing guidelines pertaining to “extraordinary and compelling reasons.” The Commission, which already recognized terminal and debilitating conditions as well as exceptional family circumstances, expanded and clarified the criteria for age and family circumstances. Importantly, the amendment directly encourages BOP to file a motion for compassionate release if the defendant meets any of the criteria set by the Commission, explaining that the sentencing court, rather than the BOP, is best suited to decide if the prisoner deserves compassionate release. We agree that under current law, it is the appropriate purview of the sentencing court to determine if a defendant’s circumstances warrant a sentence reduction under compassionate release. But BOP needs to take a hard look at expanding the use of compassionate release of certain federal prisoners as a way to focus scarce BOP resources and improve public safety. In light of the recent changes the Commission made that expand compassionate release, we ask that you respond to the following questions about BOP’s use of compassionate release: In the past three years, how many compassionate release requests, categorized by criteria, have BOP wardens received? How many were forwarded with recommendations to the Central Office (also categorized by criteria)? Of those, how many were granted and how many were denied? For both categories, how long on average did petitioners wait before receiving an answer? While waiting, how many petitioners died before receiving a response to their request for compassionate release? For all requests, whether disposed of by the warden or the Central Office, and for both denials and grants, what reasons did BOP give for its decisions? What steps has BOP taken to respond to the Commission’s directive to expand the use of compassionate release? If BOP has made no compassionate release policy changes or has not increased the number of compassionate release motions filed in the courts since the guideline change, please explain why and how BOP intends to remedy those problems? What actions can BOP take to increase the use of compassionate release? What additional actions can BOP take to reduce the number of aging and sick people in federal prisons and reduce spending on incarceration without harming public safety? Congress gave the Commission the authority to determine the conditions by which an individual in federal prison could be released for “extraordinary and compelling reasons.” It authorized federal courts to reduce a defendant’s sentence if that individual meets the criteria set by the Commission. And Congress gave BOP the administrative task of filing motions in federal court if the defendant meets the Commission’s criteria for compassionate release. We are deeply concerned that BOP is not fulfilling its role in the compassionate release process. BOP should make the compassionate release process more efficient and use that authority to the full extent provided by the Commission’s guidance. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
08.03.2017	Tillis-Coons Legislation Would Create A Judicial Review Process To Prevent The Removal Of Special Counsels Without Good Cause WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE) introduced the Special Counsel Integrity Act, bipartisan legislation that supports the integrity of independent investigations by allowing judicial review if a special counsel is removed. In the event that a special counsel is removed, the Tillis-Coons legislation allows the special counsel to challenge the removal in court, which would be heard and determined by a panel of 3 federal judges within 14 days of the filing of the action. The panel of judges would determine whether or not there was good cause for the removal of the special counsel. In the event that the panel of judges finds there was no good cause for the removal, the individual would be immediately reinstated as special counsel. Other provisions of the Special Counsel Integrity Act: Codifies existing Department of Justice regulations that a special counsel appointed by the department may only be removed for misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or other good cause, like a violation of departmental policies. The Department of Justice must inform the special counsel in writing as to the reason for their removal. Ensures that a special counsel appointed by the Department of Justice may be disciplined or removed from office only by the personal action of an Attorney General who has been confirmed by the Senate, or, if the Attorney General is recused from the matter, the most senior Department of Justice official who has been confirmed by the Senate and is not recused from the matter. Provides that the legislation is retroactively effective as of May 17, 2017, and applies to any special counsel appointed or after that date. “It is critical that special counsels have the independence and resources they need to lead investigations,” said Senator Tillis. “A back-end judicial review process to prevent unmerited removals of special counsels not only helps to ensure their investigatory independence, but also reaffirms our nation’s system of checks and balances.” “Our constitutional order depends on a system of checks and balances, grounded in the fundamental premise that no one is above the law,” said Senator Coons. “Ensuring that the special counsel cannot be removed improperly is critical to the integrity of his investigation. I am proud to partner with Senator Tillis on this bipartisan bill to safeguard our democracy.” ###
08.03.2017	Broad, bipartisan measure includes multiple Tillis provisions WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, applauded the Senate passage of broad, bipartisan legislation that seeks to improve veterans’ education benefits and enhance the post-9/11 G.I. Bill. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 includes the following provisions originally introduced by Senator Tillis as standalone legislation: The Veterans Education Experience Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) that would improve veterans’ experience when using GI Bill education benefits and provide resources and training for the officials at educational institutions who serve student veterans, helping them achieve positive education outcomes. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act of 2017 , bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) that would reinstate lost benefits to veterans whose Post-9/11 GI Bill education benefits are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. The Veterans Education Priority Enrollment Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) to ensure that veterans, servicemembers, and surviving spouses and children of servicemembers who have died in the line of duty can take full advantage of their education benefits. The Yellow Ribbon Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) that would extend Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients. “Since it was first signed into law, the G.I bill has made a lasting impact on the lives of millions of veterans who have served our country and their families,” said Senator Tillis. “In this day and age, it is necessary to improve upon that groundbreaking benefit and make certain that our nation’s heroes have the opportunity to further their education. I applaud the Senate for passing this bipartisan legislation that will fulfill the promise that we make to our servicemembers, and I’m proud that it includes multiple bipartisan bills I previously introduced to improve the educational experience for veterans.” “This bill invests in the proven success of our veterans,” said Senator Isakson. “When our veterans return home, they should have every opportunity available to them to pursue their desired profession and career. I thank Congress for quickly approving this bipartisan, bicameral legislative package. This is a great victory for our veterans and their futures.” “This bipartisan bill will help our nation’s service members transition back to civilian life by opening doors for their future success,” said Senator Tester. “It also does right by Guardsmen and Reservists by getting them the education, housing and healthcare that they have earned. I look forward to working with President Trump to quickly sign our bill into law.” The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 makes much-needed updates for reservists, Purple Heart recipients, veterans who face school closures while enrolled and surviving family members. The legislation also provides increased resources and authority for educational assistance to pursue science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs, computer programming and career technical training. Most significantly, this bill recognizes our country’s need for an agile and adaptable workforce and that American workers need to be lifelong learners. For that purpose, this bill eliminates the arbitrary 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use their G.I. Bill so they can use their benefits at any time in their professional career. Additionally, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017: Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists mobilized under selected reserve orders for preplanned missions in support of the combatant commands or in response to a major disaster or emergency; Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists undergoing medical care; Provides full G.I. Bill benefits for Purple Heart recipients regardless of length of service; Increases G.I. Bill payments by $2,300 per year for veterans with less than 12 months of active service. The legislation is named in honor of Harry Walter Colmery, an Army Air Service veteran and former national commander of the American Legion who drafted the original G.I. Bill in 1944 to improve the transition for World War II veterans back to civilian life. ###
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the confirmation of Christopher Wray to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation: “Throughout the nomination process, Christopher Wray has demonstrated that he will lead the FBI with independence and ensure a healthy separation between the agency and officials on Capitol Hill and in the White House,” said Senator Tillis. “The FBI is often regarded as the world’s best law enforcement agency, and I am confident Director Wray will maintain that proud reputation and pursue justice no matter the circumstances." ###
07.28.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “The majority of members of Congress made a promise to the American people to repeal and replace Obamacare with solutions that will help control the cost of premiums and provide more choices and flexibility for families and individuals. While today’s vote was unsuccessful, we cannot accept the status quo as Obamacare continues down an unsustainable path, and Congress has an obligation to keep pursuing solutions to fix our nation’s broken health care system.” ###
07.27.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, bipartisan legislation that imposes new sanctions on Russia, Iran and North Korea: “These sanctions send a clear and unified message to the Russian, Iranian, and North Korean regimes that America will hold them accountable for their transgressions,” said Senator Tillis. “I encourage the President to quickly sign this much-needed bipartisan legislation into law.” ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In recognition of the crucial role played by whistleblowers in shining a light on fraud, waste and abuse in the federal government, the Senate Whistleblower Protection Caucus introduced a bipartisan resolution designating July 30, 2017, as National Whistleblower Appreciation Day. The resolution, sponsored by caucus members and colleagues, aims to encourage federal agencies to acknowledge employees who call attention to fraud, waste and abuse and to remind employees of their legal rights as whistleblowers. “Whistleblowers play an important role in government transparency and reducing fraud, waste, and abuse,” Sen. Tillis said. “Far too often, the brave individuals who fight for accountability are punished for the actions, and I am proud to support National Whistleblower Appreciation Day to honor those who make the choice to speak up against wrongdoing within the federal government.” “Whistleblowers are patriotic Americans who bring accountability to government, rooting out waste, fraud and abuse. Their brave work, too often penalized by embarrassed superiors, saves taxpayers billions of dollars and shines a light on wrongdoing. More than two centuries ago our nation’s founders recognized that we needed truth-tellers in government. That is no less true today. Our resolution reaffirms this idea and celebrates whistleblowers for their contributions to transparent and accountable government,” Sen. Grassley said. “As the leaders of the bipartisan Senate Whistleblower Protection Caucus, Sen. Grassley and I are working today and every day to stop retaliation against those who do what’s right when they see something wrong,” Sen. Wyden said. “Congress has a lot more work to do to give whistleblowers the protections they deserve, but for now, this resolution shows there is bipartisan support in the Senate for people who are willing to speak out against waste, fraud or abuse in government and the private sector.” “Whistleblowers play an important role in promoting accountability throughout federal agencies. Unfortunately, whistleblowers often face retaliation from within their own agency. As Chairman of the Senate’s chief oversight committee, I’ve proposed legislation like the Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act to protect whistleblowers and ensure bad actors are held accountable. I join with my colleagues in offering support to these brave federal employees whose actions often expose problems and, ultimately, make our government better,” Sen. Johnson said. “Whistleblowers can help to shine a light on wrongdoing or misbehavior, which helps us root out waste, fraud and abuse across the federal government. These brave individuals help to uphold the integrity of the missions they serve and can spark positive change. As a member of the Whistleblower Protection Caucus, my colleagues and I will continue working together to ensure that individuals are free to speak truth to power without fear of retaliation,” Sen. Carper said. “Whistleblowers help identify waste, fraud and abuse within the government. Recognizing the brave individuals shows how important these individuals and encourages others to expose wrongdoing. As a member of the Senate Whistleblower Caucus, I am working to ensure these men and women and protected against retaliation for speaking up,”Sen. Boozman said. “Whistleblowers are our unsung heroes—the first line of defense in identifying and rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse in the government,” Sen. McCaskill said. “Since my days as Missouri’s state auditor, I’ve been committed to doing everything I can to protect hard-earned taxpayer dollars from going to waste, and I’m so thankful for all of the whistleblowers who’ve been pivotal partners in these efforts.” “We should do more to embrace whistleblowers who want to improve the system. When whistleblowers are empowered to step forward and shine a light on misconduct, fraud, waste, and abuse, we are all better off,” said Sen. Baldwin. “I am proud to support this bipartisan resolution recognizing National Whistleblower Appreciation Day.” “The identification of waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government frequently comes from courageous whistleblowers. Unfortunately, all too often, these individuals are penalized by their superiors for doing the right thing,” Sen. Ernst said. “Ensuring our whistleblowers are protected when they expose wrongdoing is critical to holding our government accountable and safeguarding taxpayer dollars. Let’s acknowledge and commemorate the important contributions these individuals make in pursuit of a better, more efficient, federal government for the people.” “Whistleblowers play an irreplaceable role in serving the public interest by exposing waste, fraud and abuse. They often put their jobs, reputations, and even lives at risk to serve the greater good. We should continue to encourage their selfless acts, protect them against reprisal, and recognize them through this bipartisan resolution,” Sen. Markey said. “Far too often, whistleblowers who shed light on misconduct or abuse face unjust retaliation from their employers,” said Sen. Peters. “These patriotic citizens play a critical role in keeping government agencies honest, efficient and accountable to taxpayers. Instead of being punished, targeted or ostracized for their actions, whistleblowers should be honored for their commitment to truth and transparency.” National Whistleblower Appreciation Day will fall on the 239th anniversary of the first whistleblower protection law, enacted on July 30, 1778. The Continental Congress adopted the original resolution, which stated that, “it is the duty of all persons in services of the United States … to give the earliest information to Congress or any other proper authority of any misconduct, frauds or misdemeanors committed by any persons in the services of these states, which may come to their knowledge.” Full text of the resolution can be found here. ###
07.26.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of 37 senators in urging the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to push the Chinese government to end its ban on the sale of American poultry products. The ban was instituted by China in 2015 due to the detection of a wild duck with Highly Pathogenic Avian Influence (HPAI) and continues to be enforced today, in contradiction of World Health Organization for Animal Health (OIE) standards. “Poultry is produced in almost every state. For communities and states that rely on a thriving and growing poultry industry, these agreements are essential to a strong and vibrant future,” said the Senators in a letter to U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue. The United States is the largest poultry producer in the world and the second biggest poultry meat exporter, with nearly 18 percent of its product shipped to foreign markets. According to the North Carolina Poultry Federation, North Carolina’s poultry industry employs over 126,933 people across the state and has an economic impact of $36.6 billion in North Carolina. North Carolina is ranked #3 nationally in total poultry production and it is the #1 agricultural industry in North Carolina. Joining Senator Tillis on the letter are Senators Thad Cochran (R-MS), Mark Warner (D-VA), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Richard Burr (R-NC), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Tom Carper (D-DE), Chris Coons (D-DE), John Cornyn (R-TX), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), John Hoeven (R-ND), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Mike Lee (R-UT), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Jerry Moran (R-KS), David Perdue (R-GA), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Tim Scott (R-SC), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Luther Strange (R-AL), John Thune (R-SD), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and Todd Young (R-IN). “The poultry industry provides thousands of high quality jobs in our rural communities and the reopening of the Chinese market would provide a huge boost for these rural areas. We encourage you to remain focused on the next steps to officially reopen the Chinese market as soon as possible,” added the Senators. The full text of the letter follows. A copy of the letter is available here. The Honorable Sonny PerdueSecretaryUnited States Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Ave., S.W.Washington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Perdue: We are encouraged by the Administration’s recent efforts to reopen the Chinese beef trade market, and are pleased you have made lifting the Chinese ban on U.S. poultry products one of your top priorities as Agriculture Secretary. In January 2015, China banned all poultry products from the United States due to the detection of a wild duck with Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI). More than two years later, China continues to enforce this ban, which is inconsistent with World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) standards. As a result, U.S. poultry producers have been negatively affected by the loss of this burgeoning export market. The poultry industry provides thousands of high quality jobs in our rural communities and the reopening of the Chinese market would provide a huge boost for these rural areas. We encourage you to remain focused on the next steps to officially reopen the Chinese market as soon as possible. Expanding market access in growing regions in the Asia Pacific, especially China, is essential for our poultry producers and will result in the creation of new jobs and higher wages in rural communities. We are hopeful for a swift process and offer our strong support as you and your staff continue to work to reopen this critical export market for poultry produced in the United States. We understand and are encouraged that China has begun its animal health audit of the U.S. poultry industry. Once this audit is completed, we encourage USDA to remain diligent in seeking final Chinese approval for U.S. poultry’s first successful shipment as quickly as possible. Poultry products are often part of the Chinese New Year celebrations, and our farmers would very much like to be able to offer their products during that time. With the productivity of U.S. agriculture exceeding domestic demand, the U.S. food and agriculture industry—and the rural communities which depend on it—rely heavily on export markets to sustain prices and revenues. Poultry is produced in almost every state. For communities and states that rely on a thriving and growing poultry industry, these agreements are essential to a strong and vibrant future. We look forward to hearing from you regarding the status of this important negotiation. ###
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after voting in favor of the motion to proceed, beginning a debate on legislation to repeal Obamacare and reform America’s health care system: “Over the last several years, Obamacare has hit hardworking North Carolina families with skyrocketing premiums and fewer choices, while small businesses have struggled to comply with the law’s costly and burdensome regulations. The status quo of Obamacare is unsustainable, and today’s procedural vote sets the stage for an open amendment process where all Senators – Republicans and Democrats alike – will be able to put forward their ideas to reform our nation’s health care system.” Background on the “motion to proceed”: The Senate voted today on the motion to proceed, which is offered to bring a piece of legislation or other legislative measure up for consideration and debate. The motion to proceed passed 51-50, initiating the start of debate and an open amendment process over the coming days. ###
07.25.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “I’ve worked with Jeff Sessions for years, and while we certainly may not agree on the specifics of every issue, I believed he would be a great Attorney General because of his unwavering commitment to the rule of law. In the nearly six months he has led the Department of Justice, he has maintained that commitment every day and demonstrated why he was widely respected during his years as a U.S. Senator. “While some may argue that he should not have recused himself from the Russia investigation, Attorney General Sessions demonstrated good judgment by doing so and removed all appearances of a potential conflict. The Attorney General’s recusal was ultimately made in the best interests of the Department of Justice and the country.“Following eight years of organizational and accountability issues plaguing the Department of Justice, Attorney General Sessions’ leadership is needed now more than ever.” ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, co-introduced broad, bipartisan legislation that seeks to improve veterans’ education benefits and enhance the post-9/11 G.I. Bill. The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 includes the following provisions originally introduced by Senator Tillis as standalone legislation: The Veterans Education Experience Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) that would improve veterans’ experience when using GI Bill education benefits and provide resources and training for the officials at educational institutions who serve student veterans, helping them achieve positive education outcomes. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act of 2017 , bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) that would reinstate lost benefits to veterans whose Post-9/11 GI Bill education benefits are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. The Veterans Education Priority Enrollment Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) to ensure that veterans, servicemembers, and surviving spouses and children of servicemembers who have died in the line of duty can take full advantage of their education benefits. The Yellow Ribbon Improvement Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation Tillis introduced with Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) that would extends Yellow Ribbon Program benefits to Fry scholarship recipients. “Since it was first signed into law, the G.I bill has made a lasting impact on the lives of millions of veterans and their families who have served our country,” said Senator Tillis. “In this day and age, it is necessary to improve upon that groundbreaking benefit and make certain that our nation’s heroes have the opportunity to further their education. This bipartisan legislation will fulfill the promise that we make to our servicemembers, and I’m proud that it includes multiple bipartisan bills I previously introduced to improve the educational experience for veterans.” “We have worked closely with our partners in the veterans community and with our colleagues in the U.S. House to ensure this legislation makes the necessary changes to improve the G.I. Bill and helps veterans succeed in their desired career field,” said Senator Isakson, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “I am proud to introduce this important legislation with Senator Tester after the House introduced its companion legislation last week. We urge our Senate colleagues to join us in supporting these improvements to the G.I. Bill to help further our investment in the futures of our veterans.” “The G.I. Bill has provided generations of veterans with access to higher education after they have bravely served our country,” said Senator Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs..“It’s been a pleasure working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, as well as veterans and advocates, to craft bipartisan legislation that will break down barriers to and strengthen education benefits for servicemembers, Guardsmen and Reservists. I look forward to working with Senator Isakson and our colleagues on the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee to ensure veterans have every shot at success.” The Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017 makes much-needed updates for reservists, Purple Heart recipients, veterans who face school closures while enrolled and surviving family members. The legislation also provides increased resources and authority for educational assistance to pursue science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) programs, computer programming and career technical training. Most significantly, this bill recognizes our country’s need for an agile and adaptable workforce and that American workers need to be lifelong learners. For that purpose, this bill eliminates the arbitrary 15-year period within which a veteran is required to use their G.I. Bill so they can use their benefits at any time in their professional career. Additionally, the Harry W. Colmery Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2017: Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists mobilized under selected reserve orders for preplanned missions in support of the combatant commands or in response to a major disaster or emergency; Provides G.I. Bill eligibility for reservists undergoing medical care; Provides full G.I. Bill benefits for Purple Heart recipients regardless of length of service; Increases G.I. Bill payments by $2,300 per year for veterans with less than 12 months of active service. The legislation is named in honor of Harry Walter Colmery, an Army Air Service veteran and former national commander of the American Legion who drafted the original G.I. Bill in 1944 to improve the transition for World War II veterans back to civilian life. ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, the White House announced that Robert Wilkie, senior advisor to Senator Thom Tillis, has been nominated to serve as Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Wilkie has served as Senator Tillis’ senior advisor since he took office in 2015, advising him on national security and military issues. Tillis currently serves as the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, which handles all quality of life issues for servicemembers and military families. Wilkie previously served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. Wilkie is assigned to the Headquarters of the United States Air Force. Prior to joining the Air Force, Wilkie served in the United States Navy Reserve with Naval Special Warfare Group Two and the Office of Naval Intelligence. Wilkie is a graduate of the College of Naval Command and Staff, Air Command and Staff College, the United States Army War College, and the Joint Forces Staff College. He is the recipient of the Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian award of the Department. Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, holds a Juris Doctor from Loyola University of New Orleans, a Master of Laws in International and Comparative Law from Georgetown University, a Master’s in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College, and an Honors degree in Politics from Wake Forest University. Senator Tillis issued the following statement on Wilkie’s nomination: “Robert Wilkie has been indispensable as my senior advisor, and his nomination is a crystal clear indication that Secretary of Defense Mattis is committed to choosing the highest caliber people possible to help him lead the Pentagon. A proud native of Fayetteville, Robert is deeply respected by North Carolina’s military community, and he has worked closely with me over the last three years to help ensure North Carolina’s military installations have the resources and assets they need to serve America’s national security mission. It’s no surprise that Robert has also served as a valuable resource to other members of the Senate Armed Services Committee because of his unparalleled experience, wisdom, and insight when it comes to military issues and understanding of the challenges facing our men and women in uniform. Robert is the perfect choice to serve as Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, and I can’t wait to keep working closely with him on behalf of North Carolina and our servicemembers and military families.” ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement on his friend and colleague, Senator John McCain: “John McCain is an American hero and a fighter through and through. Courage and fearlessness have always defined his distinguished career of public service. Susan and I join all North Carolinians in praying for Senator McCain’s recovery and return to the United States Senate.” ###
07.20.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, joined Chairman Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) and his Republican colleagues to file a Congressional Review Act (CRA) Joint Resolution of Disapproval in the Senate against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) arbitration rule. “Setting aside the looming questions surrounding the constitutionality, this CFPB rule is a boon to trial attorneys at the expense of American consumers,” said Senator Tillis. “The American people decided this past election that they were fed-up with decisions being made by unelected Washington bureaucrats, and I hope that my colleagues will stand up to this abuse of power by supporting this rule’s rejection under the Congressional Review Act.” “Members of Congress previously expressed concerns with the proposed version of the rulemaking – concerns that were not addressed in the final rule,” said Chairman Crapo. “The rule is based on a flawed study that leading scholars have criticized as biased and inadequate, noting that it could leave consumers worse off by removing access to an important dispute resolution tool. By ignoring requests from Congress to reexamine the rule and develop alternatives between the status quo and effectively eliminating arbitration, the CFPB has once again proven a lack of accountability. Given the problems with the study and the Bureau’s failure to address significant concerns, it is not only appropriate but incumbent on Congress to vote to overturn this rule.” “While I appreciate the need for strong consumer protections, this rule does not strike the right balance in helping consumers resolve disputes,” said Senator Corker. “There’s no need for this anti-arbitration, anti-business rule,” said Senator Cotton. “Today, we’re taking action to rein in this rogue agency. We should be encouraging job creation and lowering consumer costs, not stifling economic growth with needless, endless litigation.” “It makes no sense for the CFPB to issue a regulation that discourages arbitration, which has been used as a cost-effective method to resolve disputes," said Senator Perdue. "There’s only one group that will benefit from this rule and that’s trial lawyers, not consumers. I applaud Chairman Crapo for putting consumers first and taking action to eliminate this rule.” “The arbitration agreements rule is yet another example of the CFPB overstepping its authority to impose burdensome, unnecessary regulations that do more harm than good,” said Senator Rounds. “If finalized, this rule would actually cost consumers more in the long run by pushing consumers into class action lawsuits as opposed to arbitration. According to the CFPB’s own studies, consumers receive, on average, $32 in relief through class action lawsuits compared to $5,389 in arbitration. Additionally, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has said that this rule could increase the risk of litigation so much that it could adversely affect the safety and soundness of the banking system – the cost of which will ultimately be handed down to consumers." “Congress, not King Richard Cordray, writes the laws,” said Senator Sasse. “This resolution is a good place for Congress to start reining in one of Washington’s most powerful bureaucracies.” “The CFPB’s ill-conceived rule is yet another government-sponsored bonanza for trial lawyers at the expense of consumers seeking a speedy and fair resolution of their disputes,” said Senator Toomey. “This rule is based on a political study that 86 members of Congress warned was ‘not fair, transparent, or comprehensive.’ Rather than reexamine its defective study, the CFPB has chosen to forge ahead with a flawed rule. Congress must now exercise its authority to block it.” The Congressional Review Act permits Congress to overturn an agency rule within 60 legislative days after an agency has submitted the rule to Congress, with a simple majority vote. Original co-sponsors of the measure also include Senators John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), Roy Blunt (R-Missouri), Shelley Moore Capito (R-West Virginia), Thad Cochran (R-Mississippi), Bob Corker (R-Tennessee), Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Mike Enzi (R-Wyoming), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Dean Heller (R-Nevada), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), James Lankford (R-Oklahoma), Jerry Moran (R-Kansas), David Perdue (R-Georgia), Mike Rounds (R-South Dakota), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), Ben Sasse (R-Nebraska), Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Richard Shelby (R-Alabama), Luther Strange (R-Alabama), Patrick Toomey (R-Pennsylvania) and Roger Wicker (R-Mississippi). ###
07.20.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Tim Scott (R-SC), Steve Daines (R-MT), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Tom Cotton (R-AK), Susan Collins (R-ME), Todd Young (R-IN), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), and David Perdue (R-GA) to urge Department of Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta clear the path for implementation of 401(k) auto portability that would make it easier for Americans to save for their future. Over the past four decades, Americans have cumulatively lost about $2 trillion in retirement savings due to not transferring their 401(k) retirement accounts when transitioning from one job to another. On average, approximately 14 million Americans change jobs each year, and about 40% of those individuals opt to “cash out” their 401(k)s instead of transferring those funds to another retirement account. These “cash outs” incur penalties and taxes, which ultimately lead to a $70 billion annual loss in savings. The highest “cash out” rate occurs with workers with the smallest account balances, $5,000 or less. The letter specifically states, “Retirement plan cash out leakage at the time of a job change is harmful to workers’ retirement… With an estimated 14 million workers with 401(k) plans changing jobs each year, reducing leakage and consolidating low-dollar accounts through greater use of auto portability will set millions of working Americans on a better path to a secure retirement.” The auto portability option suggested could result in more than two million employees opting to keep their savings in retirement accounts instead of “cashing out” and incurring losses that carry long term consequences. Various groups have already come out in support of this commonsense initiative, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Financial Services Roundtable, American Benefits Council, American Retirement Association, Investment Company Institute, and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-introduced the Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA), legislation that would restore accountability to the regulatory process and ensure proper judicial review, empowering the courts—not agencies—to interpret all questions of law, including both statutes and regulations. The Senate bill was also introduced by Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Mike Lee (R-UT), James Lankford (R-OK), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Kennedy (R-LA), Ted Cruz (R-TX), John Cornyn (R-TX), and Ben Sasse (R-NE). “One of the biggest challenges facing our nation is a large and cumbersome regulatory environment that negatively affects hardworking American families and business, and impedes our nation’s economic growth and potential,” Senator Tillis said. “I am proud to join this legislation that takes the necessary steps to hold unelected bureaucrats and regulators accountable by restoring the proper separation of powers.” “Our Constitution clearly sets up three separate branches of government that have designated powers to check one another,” Senator Hatch said. “This important balance of power is essential to our country’s freedom. Administrative agencies, however, have continuously eroded that balance of power by subjecting the courts to judicial deference, allowing the federal bureaucracy to impose expensive and often unnecessary rules that strain family budgets and impede our ability to create jobs. Our bill fortifies regulatory accountability by restoring the constitutional responsibility of the courts to check and restrain federal regulators.” “For too long, unelected bureaucrats have relied on Chevron to expand their own authority beyond what Congress ever intended,” Chairman Grassley said. “This has weakened our system of checks and balances and created a recipe for regulatory overreach. The Constitution’s separation of powers makes clear that it is the responsibility of Congress, as the People’s representative, to make the law. And it’s the job of the courts – not the bureaucracy – to interpret the law. This bill helps to reassert those clear lines between the branches. By doing so, it makes the government more accountable to the People and takes a strong step toward reining in the regulators.” “In practice Chevron deference has become a direct threat to the rule of law and the moral underpinnings of America’s constitutional order,” Senator Lee said. “The Separation of Powers Restoration Act of 2017 will restore that balance by bringing back traditional judicial review of administrative actions.” “The Constitution gives each branch of government unique and exclusive power: Congress writes the law; the executive enforces the law; and the courts interpret the law,” Senator Flake said. “However, the Chevron doctrine increasingly allows the executive branch to do all three. That’s not what the Framers envisioned and this bill is a good first step to bringing government in line with the structure of our Constitution.” “The introduction of the Restoration of Powers Separation Act is a crucial first step in restoring the proper role of judicial review,” Senator Crapo said. “This bill will stop future abuses of power by making it clear that courts, not administrative agencies, have the rightful authority to interpret questions of law.” “It’s no secret that Chevron deference has gotten a little out of hand,” Senator Kennedy said. “It’s vital to our separation of powers that we restore the balance – and this bill does just that. I’m proud to join my colleagues in bringing about this needed reform” "Our Constitution clearly defines the lawful checks and balances among the three branches of government, yet for far too long executive agencies have operated as if they can simply dictate the law," Senator Cruz said."That is unacceptable. It is past time for Congress to assert its appropriate place as a coequal branch of government. I am glad to again join my colleagues in both Houses in this effort to remedy the damage done by the previous administration’s lawlessness, and reverse the dangerous trend of enabling bureaucracy at the expense of Congress and the courts." “When you write laws, you’re hired and fired by the people in the voting booth – that’s Self-Government 101,” Senator Sasse said. “Sadly, that’s not what happens when Congress punts to unelected regulators and the courts defer to unaccountable bureaucrats. Our straightforward bill reaffirms what our kids learn in high school civics: Congress writes the laws, judges apply them, and the executive branch enforces them." Background: For many years, the nation has witnessed a steady accumulation of power within administrative agencies. As a practical matter, agencies’ power to regulate and to adjudicate has supplanted legislation and judicial review as the primary means by which governance takes place at the federal level. This trend only accelerated under President Obama, whose major legislative actions—such as Obamacare and Dodd-Frank—delegated massive amounts of power to the federal bureaucracy. The central precept undergirding the Constitution is the notion that liberty depends on the separation of powers and the preservation of check and balances. As James Madison put it in Federalist 47, “The accumulation of all powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same hands, whether of one, a few, or many, and whether hereditary, self-appointed, or elective, may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny.” By definition, the accumulation of power within administrative agencies represents a shift away from the constitutional separation of powers and the liberty it protects. Insulated from the checks and balances on its authority, the federal bureaucracy imposes an estimated $1.88 trillion burden on the economy each year, according to the Competitive Enterprise Institute. That equals roughly $15,000 per household and 11.5 percent of the nation’s 2012 GDP. This figure is more than $300 billion higher than combined individual and corporate federal income tax receipts and equivalent to 85 percent of U.S. corporate profits in 2013. Judicial review represents the most effective remaining independent check on regulation and administrative action. One of the primary means by which the judiciary checks the otherwise-unbridled powers of the federal bureaucracy is by evaluating whether an agency’s action violates the law. In such cases, the paramount matter in contention is the meaning of the law at issue. For many years, the courts’ held that when considering the meaning of legal text, “[i]t is for the courts, not the [agencies], ultimately to determine as a matter of law what they include.” Fed. Trade Comm’n v. Gratz, 253 U.S. 421, 427 (1920). This approach was anchored in Chief Justice John Marshall’s seminal words in Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. (1 Cranch) 137, 177 (1803), that “i[t] is emphatically the province and duty of the Judicial Department to say what the law is.” However, in Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Res. Def. Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837 (1984), the Supreme Court held that courts should defer to an agency’s interpretation of a statute as long as the statute is “ambiguous” and the agency’s reading is “reasonable.” In practice, these terms are interpreted extraordinarily leniently for agencies. In subsequent cases, the Supreme Court has extended similar deference to other legal interpretations by agencies. For example, in Auer v. Robbins, 519 U.S. 453 (1997), the Court applied the Chevron standard to agencies’ interpretations of their own regulations. Furthermore, in Nat’l Cable & Telecomm. Ass’n v. Brand X Internet Servs., 545 U.S. 967 (2005), the Supreme Court held that statutory interpretations by an administrative agency can override previous interpretations by federal courts, and in City of Arlington, Tex. v. Fed. Commc'ns Comm., 133 S. Ct. 1863 (2013), the Supreme Court even went so far as to hold that a court must defer to an agency's interpretation that concerns the scope of the agency's jurisdiction. The Separation of Powers Restoration Act would clarify in Section 706 of the Administrative Procedure Act that courts shall decide “de novo all relevant questions of law, including the interpretation of constitutional and statutory provisions and rules.” ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security announced its intention to provide up to 15,000 additional H-2B visas under an interim final rule that it will submit to the Federal Register. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has been leading bipartisan efforts in Congress to ensure American small businesses have access to temporary, seasonal workers they need to sustain their businesses and support American jobs. Tillis has been directly advocating the Department of Homeland Security to provide additional visas for FY2017. In May, Senators Tillis and Angus King (I-ME) led a bipartisan and bicameral letter to the Secretaries of Homeland Security and Labor urging them to take “swift and decisive action” to approve the applications for H-2B workers. Earlier this year, Congress authorized the Departments to increase the number of H-2B visas allocated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Previously the number had been capped at 66,000 annually – 33,000 for each half of the Fiscal Year. However, that cap was reached on March 13th of this year, with many small businesses still in need of seasonal employees to support their operations. “I’m encouraged that Secretary Kelly intends to provide relief to seasonal small businesses across the nation currently suffering from a lack of temporary workers. I look forward to reviewing the details of the rule,” said Senator Tillis. “As President Trump has noted, the H-2B program is vital for businesses that desperately need temporary help to keep their doors open and keep their American workforce employed. Moving forward, it’s important that the debate over H-2B is rooted in hard facts and the real-world experiences of small businesses owners doing everything they can make ends meet, not the misleading opinions of political pundits based in New York City and Washington who have never had to make payroll.” ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Chris Coons (D-DE), Co-Chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, released the following joint statement in response to the death of Chinese dissident and recipient of the 2010 Nobel Peace Prize Liu Xiaobo: “As chairs of the Senate Human Rights Caucus, we mourn the passing of Nobel Peace laureate Liu Xiaobo, who dedicated his life to advancing democracy in China through non-violence. We also call on the Chinese government to end the house arrest of Liu Xiaobo’s wife, Liu Xia, and to ensure her freedom of movement. We are reminded that in his final statement before being sentenced to 11 years in jail, Mr. Liu stated: ‘I, filled with optimism, look forward to the advent of a future free China. For there is no force that can put an end to the human quest for freedom, and China will in the end become a nation ruled by law, where human rights reign supreme.’ In his passing, Mr. Liu’s legacy continues to inspire us to challenge oppression and to stand up for the fundamental rights of all people.” ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Bobby Higdon to serve as U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Mr. Higdon has a long and decorated career as a federal prosecutor, handling many high profile cases. He also has significant management experience as former criminal chief in the Eastern District of North Carolina. Mr. Higdon earned his law degree from the Wake Forest School of Law. He is currently a partner at Williams Mullen and resides in Cary, North Carolina. “Bobby Higdon is an incredibly qualified choice for U.S. Attorney, holding decades of prosecutorial experience,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Eastern North Carolina will benefit from Bobby’s leadership.” “Mr. Higdon is an excellent choice to serve as the U.S. Attorney for North Carolina’s Eastern District,” said Senator Richard Burr. “He has extensive legal expertise, having served as an Assistant United States Attorney in both the Western and Eastern Districts of North Carolina, and will provide fair and experienced leadership in this role.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, at the recommendation of North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, President Trump announced his intention to nominate Thomas Farr to fill the United States District Court vacancy for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Mr. Farr has extensive experience and is extremely qualified. He has tried cases in federal and state courts in North Carolina and has handled appeals at all levels of the North Carolina appellate courts, the Fourth and Sixth Circuit Courts of Appeal, and the Supreme Court. In 2006, Mr. Farr was nominated by President George W. Bush to fill the very same vacancy on the U.S. District Court, and the American Bar Association rated him as unanimously well-qualified. Mr. Farr received his B.L.S from Hillsdale College, received his J.D. from Emory University and holds an L.L.M. in Labor Law from Georgetown University. “Thomas Farr is widely respected as one of the best legal minds in North Carolina,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “He is impeccably qualified, and I am confident he will be an independent-minded judge committed to fairness and will faithfully apply the law.” “I am pleased once again to support Thomas Farr for District Judge of the Eastern District of North Carolina,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Mr. Farr was previously nominated for this judgeship in 2006. His wealth of experience will serve North Carolina well.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tim Kaine (D-VA) introduced bipartisan legislation that would improve veterans’ experience when using GI Bill education benefits. The Veterans Education Experience Improvement Act of 2017 would provide resources and training for the officials at educational institutions who serve student veterans, helping them achieve positive education outcomes. “For too long, Congress has tasked officials with ensuring that student veterans have successful outcomes when using their VA Education Benefit, but have not committed the necessary resources required to ensure success,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan legislation I have introduced with Senator Kaine ensures that those who serve our veterans are properly trained, resourced, and have a manageable workload so they can commit sufficient time and attention to each enrolled veteran student.” “The GI Bill is one of the best tools to help servicemembers make a successful transition into the civilian world. Unfortunately, many school officials are under resourced, resulting in delays in tuition payments and veterans not receiving the appropriate guidance on getting the most out of this benefit,” said Senator Kaine. “Improving educational programs for our nation’s veterans has been one of the core focuses of my work in the Senate, and this bipartisan bill will help ensure educational institutions are fully equipped to help veterans succeed.” To read S.1555, the Veterans Education Experience Improvement Act of 2017, click here. Background Currently, State Approving Agencies (SAA) and School Certifying Officials (SCOs) are tasked with certifying and approving veterans’ benefits and ensuring student veterans have successful outcomes when using the VA Education Benefit. SCOs are often the first school officials that veterans meet with and are the primary source for information about classes and benefits. As the student veteran population continues to grow, SCOs are asked to do more with less. This has resulted in over $419 million in GI Bill overpayments in 2014 according to a Government Accountability Office report, as well as veterans exhausting all of their GI Bill benefits before completing a degree or certification because they were not properly counseled early on. The Veterans Education Experience Improvement Act of 2017 would require the Department of Veterans Affairs to: Set forth training requirements for school certifying officials who enroll veterans receiving education benefits. Ensure that school certifying officials at covered educational intuitions have a manageable caseload by requiring that no school certifying official (SCO) complete more than 500 unduplicated certifications during any given fiscal year. Increase resources available to State Approving Agencies and School Certifying Officials. Restrict the use of GI Bill reporting fees paid by the VA to an educational institution to only be spent on certifications or supporting programs and training. Codify and make permanent the VetSuccess on Campus (VSOC) program. ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after text of the updated version of the Senate’s Better Care Act was released: “I look forward to carefully reviewing the changes made to the Better Care Act. From what I’ve already seen, major improvements have been made, including a significantly bigger investment to combat and treat opioid addiction, and more funding to help control the rising costs of premiums for individuals and families. “I’m pleased that Senate leaders have committed to an open amendment process, which will allow all senators – Republicans and Democrats alike – to propose additional improvements to the legislation. I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting the motion to proceed so we can begin this robust, bipartisan amendment process. “We cannot afford to continue with the unsustainable status quo of Obamacare, which has imposed skyrocketing premiums, costly mandates, and fewer choices on the American people.” ###
07.12.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, attended the nomination hearing for Christopher Wray to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. During the hearing, Senator Tillis stated his intention to support Wray’s confirmation.Senator Tillis questions Wray on the FBI’s role in countering Russian meddling:“I don't think there's anyone in Congress who would doubt that Russia meddles in elections, they have been meddling in elections for a long time. The emergence of the cyber domain has amplified their ability to do it more quickly and on a broader basis. Beyond what is already under investigation, do you have any sense of what more the FBI would do beyond the investigation that Director Mueller is tasked with that you could conceive that you all may proceed with?” [Download the video HERE.] Senator Tillis on the importance of the FBI working with state and local law enforcement:“One of the things I wanted to emphasize is the importance of working with state and local law enforcement agencies to get the best leverage and resources to support these sorts of investigations. I think what is important to working with state and local law enforcement are the equitable sharing programs that provide these local agencies with resources like seizures in some cases. I think there are misconceptions about how the program was run, whether there were any abuses of it and if there was, we need to work on that, but sending uncertainty out there could have a chilling effect on the investments local law enforcement will make in anticipation of some those resources that enable them to work better with the FBI.” [Download the video HERE.] Senator Tillis on providing intelligence agencies with the tools they need:“I think it's important and you probably want to spend a little bit of time with Director of National Intelligence Coats who before the Senate Armed Service said people will die if we go end the FISA 702 program. That's a pretty profound statement from a high ranking official and I think we just have to look ahead and preserve those kind of tools for the FBI and other intelligence agencies.” [Download the video HERE.] ###
07.11.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, issued the following statement after a KC-130 from Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point crashed in Mississippi, tragically killing at least 16 on board: "Susan and I send our deepest condolences to the families of the Marines who lost their lives in service to our nation. Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point and the Havelock community are in our thoughts and prayers. This is a tragic reminder of the dangers our servicemembers are confronted with on a daily basis, including the training missions that are needed to help keep our nation safe at home and abroad." ###
06.30.2017	U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today joined Senators David Perdue (R-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), John Kennedy (R-LA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Luther Strange (R-AL), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK) in asking Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to cancel the Senate’s scheduled August state work period if meaningful progress has not been made on fixing health care, funding the government, dealing with the debt ceiling, passing a budget resolution, and improving our tax code. The senators outlined their request in a letter sent to Leader McConnell, which included a countdown of the remaining scheduled work days until the end of the fiscal year, September 30. “Our current Senate calendar shows only 33 potential working days remaining before the end of the fiscal year,” said the senators in the letter. “This does not appear to give us enough time to adequately address the issues that demand immediate attention. Therefore, we respectfully request that you consider truncating, if not completely foregoing, the scheduled August state work period, allowing us more time to complete our work.” “Delivering meaningful results was never assumed to be easy, but the millions of Americans who placed their confidence in our leadership expect our full and best effort,” concluded the senators. View the full text of the letter below. Dear Leader McConnell: We are united in our belief that we must work with a sense of urgency to deliver conservative solutions for pressing legislative issues on behalf of the American people. Our current Senate calendar shows only 33 potential working days remaining before the end of the fiscal year. This does not appear to give us enough time to adequately address the issues that demand immediate attention. Therefore, we respectfully request that you consider truncating, if not completely foregoing, the scheduled August state work period, allowing us more time to complete our work. There are five imperatives which must be accomplished this year. We must complete the first phase of Obamacare repeal and replace. Next, we have to pass a budget that serves as a reconciliation vehicle for reforming our outdated tax code. Before September 30th, we must agree on an appropriation that responsibly funds the government. Also, we must deal with our debt limit before that approximate date. If we successfully navigate those priorities, we can finally get to our once in a generation opportunity on tax reform. Growing the economy, repairing our infrastructure, and rebuilding our military are all dependent on accomplishing the tasks before us. Each of these issues is challenging in its own right. For example, the passage of a budget and all twelve appropriations bills before September 30th is a rarity, occurring only 4 times in the last 43 years. However, the stakes are much higher this year. We simply cannot afford to lose any additional time in resolving these issues when tax reform is hanging in the balance. Robust change to our tax code is our single most important economic growth tool, and there is already growing anticipation for us to act. Failure to deliver could have devastating economic consequences. We appreciate your leadership, both in advancing our agenda and by moving a package of bills this year to roll back regulations. This effort has already helped deliver much needed relief and advance economic growth. Further, we have been encouraged by your work to date to help us stay on track. However, there is much to be done. Please be assured that our request is fully backed by our commitment to thoughtfully and diligently work through these issues. We simply recognize that making America great again requires a certain time commitment. Delivering meaningful results was never assumed to be easy, but the millions of Americans who placed their confidence in our leadership expect our full and best effort. Sincerely, ###
06.30.2017	U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), along with U.S. Senators Jon Tester (D-MT), Todd Young (R-IN), Dick Durbin (D-IL), and Dean Heller (R-NV) introduced bipartisan legislation that would provide relief to veterans whose Post-9/11 GI Bill education benefits are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. In 2016, ITT Technical Institutes filed for bankruptcy and closed all 136 campuses in 38 states – after receiving $917 million in Post-9/11 GI Bill funds – leaving student veterans stranded and unable to reallocate education benefits elsewhere. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act (VERRA) would expand the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) authority to restore the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits of veterans who are affected by the permanent closure of ITT Tech or other institutions. Currently, the VA cannot fully restore a veterans’ benefits if a school they attend permanently closes. “I am pleased to re-introduce the Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act, which ensures veterans will not lose their hard earned educational benefits when they are threatened by factors outside of their control,” said Senator Tillis. “This is yet another example of Democrats and Republicans on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee coming together to push commonsense legislation that will benefit veterans looking to further their education.” “Our veterans have too often been left high and dry by abrupt school closures, which prevent them from completing their degrees and waste millions of dollars in Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits,” said Senator Blumenthal. “This bipartisan bill is a significant step toward protecting veterans’ hard-earned education benefits as they transition from military to civilian life, providing them with peace of mind that they will not suffer the loss of educational opportunities due to unexpected school closures.” The legislation is also co-sponsored by U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Tom Carper (D-DE), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The legislation is supported by the Student Veterans of America, Veterans Education Success, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, the National Guard Association of the United States, and the National Association of State Approving Agencies. Specifically, VERRA would provide the Department of Veterans Affairs with the authority to: Restore entitlement for individuals, including student veterans affected by the ITT Technical Institutes’ collapse, who pursued a program of education with VA educational assistance and failed to receive credit – or lost training time – toward completion of the individual’s educational, professional, or vocational objective as a result of the closure of their educational institution. Continue monthly educational assistance payments – including housing allowance – through the end of the term, quarter, or semester in which the school closes, or up to four months from the date of the school closure, whatever is sooner. These extensions would be without charge to entitlement. “When factors outside of a veteran’s control affect their education, they deserve every protection to make sure they don’t lose access to the benefits they have earned,” said Senator Tester, Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “After putting their lives on hold to serve our country, our veterans have earned access to the best education possible when they leave the Armed Forces. This bipartisan bill will better ensure they have access to that education and the tools they need to succeed after their service.” “The G.I. bill has helped many veterans make the leap to their next career in civilian life. However, that has not been the case for all veterans. This bill gives the VA Secretary the necessary flexibility to ensure that veterans are able to achieve their education goals despite unforeseen circumstances that are out of their control,” said Senator Young. “The discipline and work ethic of our military men and women is unmatched. They are assets to any business or organization they join and I will continue to work to ensure that they have every opportunity possible.” “Unexpected school closures, like those recently seen in the for-profit college industry, put veterans and their families at risk of being unable to afford their housing. This bipartisan legislation would act as a safety net, allowing veterans to continue receiving critical housing benefits after their schools close. Veterans should not be put out on the streets because of the misconduct of for-profit colleges,” said Senator Durbin. “G.I. bill benefits are critical to veterans who want to go back to school, and they should not lose this benefit and the chance to further their education just because their school shut its doors,” said Senator Heller. “Our legislation addresses the issue of veterans who - through no fault of their own – face the reality of a school closure and therefore lost opportunities. The VA must do everything it can to empower veterans with the education and skills they need to compete and succeed, and our bill addresses an important component of that mission.” ###
06.29.2017	Today, bipartisan legislation introduced by U.S. Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) that streamlines and eases the burden on the process whereby active-duty military, reservists and veterans apply for their commercial driver’s license passed out of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation. “The brave men and women that serve in the U.S. military learn a wide-range of skills applicable to jobs once they enter the civilian workforce, but too often face unnecessary barriers that makes it harder for them to find jobs,” said Senator Tillis. “I applaud my colleagues for advancing this legislation that allows our active-duty military, reservists, and veterans to apply the experience they gained serving our nation in a civilian capacity and not force them to go through a duplicative credentialing process to obtain a commercial driver’s license.” “Many servicemen and women have been uniquely trained to drive large military vehicles and want to carry over that expertise into their civilian careers,” said Sen. Cornyn. “This legislation makes it easier for veterans to utilize their military training to obtain a commercial drivers license, and I’m glad the Senate Commerce Committee has moved forward on this commonsense bill.” “Veterans who have the training and experience to operate heavy trucks and buses under tough conditions in the military have the skills needed to drive trucks on our highways,” Sen. Warren said. “This bipartisan bill will remove legal obstacles delaying servicemembers from getting commercial drivers’ licenses. I’m glad the Committee approved the bill, and hope Congress passes it soon – this is a straightforward fix that will benefit veterans looking for good jobs and that will help employers looking for talented employees.” Co-sponsors for the legislation include Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), John Thune (R-SD), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Dan Sullivan (R-AK). Background: The latest surface transportation reauthorization bill, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, directed the Secretary of Transportation to establish a unique, streamlined set of standards for veterans applying for a CDL. The standards exempt veterans from all or a portion of civilian commercial vehicle driving tests if that veteran had experience driving similar vehicles while in the armed forces or reserves. Additionally, the standards allow veterans’ formal military training to count as credit towards the commercial motor vehicles minimum requirements to obtain a license. However, the FAST Act did not include active-duty members of the military and reservists in their application of standards for veterans with previous training in military driving. To correct this, the Department of Transportation (USDOT) granted a two-year exemption allowing states to waive the commercial driver’s licenses knowledge test for current service members, reservists, and national guardsmen if they completed military heavy-training programs and had been regularly employed in a military position requiring the operation of heavy vehicles within the past year prior to their application. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 makes the USDOT’s two-year exemption permanent, providing active-duty service members and reservists the same training and testing standards granted to veterans under the FAST Act. The legislation also makes it easier for veterans to receive the DOT-required health examination to hold a commercial driver’s license. The FAST Act contained a provision requiring USDOT and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to collaborate and develop a streamlined and efficient process whereby VA physicians can join the National Registry for Certified Medical Examiners (NRCME). USDOT requires that all CDL holders be examined by physicians certified by the NRCME. Currently, there is an extremely low number of physicians in the VA health system certified by the NRCME, forcing veterans to either travel exorbitant distances to see a CME or pay out of pocket for a non-VA medical professional. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 Act allows all qualified VA medical professionals, including advanced practice nurses and physician assistants, to use the same new process afforded to VA physicians. ###
06.28.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that he has secured several key provisions in the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that will make critical improvements to Camp Lejeune and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point, provide an across the board pay raise for servicemembers, and implement important reforms that will make life easier for military families. Senator Tillis chairs the Personnel Subcommittee, which has oversight over half of the Pentagon’s budget. On a bipartisan basis, Senator Tillis and his subcommittee colleagues pushed through an across the board 2.1% pay raise for our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines. The subcommittee also championed major changes in TRICARE that would benefit North Carolina’s Guardsmen and Reservists. “The NDAA reaffirms our nation’s commitment to supporting the brave men and women in uniform and reestablishes America’s commitment to a strong national defense and protecting its interest abroad,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that my provisions to upgrade Camp Lejeune and Cherry Point, improve military family readiness, and direct the DoD & VA to collaborate closely on establishing interoperability with the new Electronic Health Record are included. I want to thank my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee for this bipartisan effort that will positively affect our North Carolina installations, servicemembers, and military families.” The Senate version of the NDAA contains the following provisions that were secured by Senator Tillis: Modernizing the DoD & VA to collaborate closely on establishing interoperability with the new Electronic Health Record Earlier this month, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin announced that the VA will adopt the same Electronic Health Record (EHR) system as the Department of Defense for veterans’ medical records. Tillis’ provision expands authorities and allows military treatment facilities to provide health care to servicemembers, dependents, veterans and civilians, the services can maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills while also providing state of the art specialty care to underserved medical communities. Tillis’ provision would: Require the Secretary of Defense to conduct a pilot program to establish integrated health care delivery systems among the military health system, other federal health systems, and private sector integrated health systems. Require a Comptroller General report of Department of Defense measures to maintain critical wartime medical readiness skills and core competencies of health care providers. Expanded Eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select and TRICARE Retired ReserveExpands eligibility for TRICARE to allow Guardsmen and Reservists who are eligible for the Federal Employees Health Benefit to purchase TRICARE Reserve Select or TRICARE Retired Reserve. Military Family Readiness Authorizes $25 million in supplemental impact aid to local educational agencies with military dependent children and $10 million in impact aid for schools with military dependent children with severe disabilities. Authorizes $1 million for a pilot program to develop a public-private partnership on military spousal employment. Authorizes $1 million for a pilot program on public-private partnerships for telework facilities on military installations outside the United States. FY18 Military Construction Budget for North Carolina Camp Lejeune Tillis’ provisions allow Camp Lejeune to make much needed improvement to the living quarters and other essential facilities. $37.983M – Bachelor Enlisted Quarters $65.784M – Water Treatment Plant Replacement Hadnot Point $15.3M – Ambulatory Care Center Addition (Defense Health Agency) $21.4M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $22.0M – Ambulatory Care Center/Dental Clinic (Defense Health Agency) $10.8M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $20.539M – SOF Motor Transport Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $64.29M – Radio Battalion Complex, Phase 2 $258.09M – Total Cherry Point Tillis’ provisions for Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point guarantees the construction of the Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility and secures the future home of F-35B Joint Strike Fighters in North Carolina. $15.671M – F-35B Vertical Lift Fan Test Facility $15.671M – Total Seymour Johnson Tillis’ provisions paves the way for a squadron of KC-46 Air Force Tankers. $6.4M – KC-46A ADAL for Alt Mission Storage $20.0M – Tanker Truck Delivery System (Defense Logistics Agency) $26.4M – Total Fort Bragg $20.26M – SOF Human Performance Training Center (SOCOM) $13.518M – SOF Support Battalion Admin Facility (SOCOM) $20.0M – SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility (SOCOM) $4.0M – SOF Telecom Reliability Improvements (SOCOM) $57.778M – Total North Carolina Total$357,947,000
06.23.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, applauded the President for signing the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act into law. The bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Senator Tillis will reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by allowing the secretary to dismiss bad employees and ensure appropriate due process protections for whistleblowers. “This bipartisan legislation will give the VA the long-overdue authority to remove bad actors and put the people in place we need to give veterans the care they need and deserve,” said Senator Tillis. “While the majority of employees at the VA are hardworking individuals who are committed to providing the best healthcare possible for our veterans, it is unacceptable the VA has to comb through layers of red-tape to remove poor-performing employees. Now that this legislation has been signed into law, I look forward to the VA having the tools it needs to have the right personnel in place.” The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act is widely supported by key veterans stakeholders including the VA and U.S. House VA committee leadership. It has also won the support of numerous veterans advocacy groups that represent millions of veterans in the United States and key government accountability groups. Read more about the legislation’s support here. Background:The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act increases the VA’s authority to remove employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and ensures an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. It will also make it easier for the VA to remove poor performing senior executives and replace them with qualified candidates. Additionally, any appeals by senior VA executives would no longer be brought before the Merit Systems Protection Board, but instead would be handled directly by the VA secretary under an expedited timeline. The legislation will establish in law the newly created Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection within the VA and includes a number of other provisions to hold employees accountable, including: Requires the VA to evaluate supervisors based on the protection of whistleblowers; Incentivizes managers to address poor performance and misconduct among employees by requiring the VA secretary to include this as part of the annual performance plan; Prohibits bonuses for employees who have been found guilty of wrongdoing; and Prohibits relocation expenses to employees who abuse the system. ###
06.23.2017	This week, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), John McCain (R-AZ), Jerry Moran (R-KS), and Dean Heller (R-NV) sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin regarding reports that the VA will not have enough funds to operate the Veterans Choice Program through the current fiscal year. Earlier this year, the VA assured Congress that it would have about $1.1 billion left to operate the Veterans Choice Program when it was originally set to expire by law on August 7th. As a result, the House and Senate worked to pass and the president signed into law legislation that eliminated the sunset date on the program and allowed the VA to use the remaining funds to operate it without disruption. However, the VA recently realized that the veteran use and utilization rate for the Veterans Choice Program was much higher than anticipated and that the VA would no longer have enough funds to operate the program through the current fiscal year.‎ “You testified that removing this sunset date would have allowed the Veterans Choice Program to extend well beyond this fiscal year and at least partially into fiscal year 2018 … Since then, you realized that due to strong demand for the Veterans Choice Program among veteran patients, the expenditure for the program was higher than anticipated – so much so that the VA will no longer have enough funds to operate the Veterans Choice Program through the current fiscal year,” the senators wrote. “The VA has put Congress in yet another precarious situation of the VA’s own making and requires a bail out to address the fiscal year 2017 shortfall or the VA will remove access to care for veterans under the Veterans Choice Program. There are limited options available to provide authority to the VA and we seek a detailed and thorough explanation as to what the VA needs to sustain the Veterans Choice Program through the remainder of the fiscal year as well as how the VA will keep the Veterans Choice Program up-and-running into fiscal year 2018.” The text of the letter is below. June 21, 2017 The Honorable David J. ShulkinSecretary of Veterans AffairsU.S. Department of Veterans Affairs810 Vermont Avenue NWWashington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary Shulkin, We write to you regarding troubling reports of financial mismanagement in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) community care accounts. Last week, you testified before the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee that the VA will no longer have enough funds required to operate the Veterans Choice Program, the VA’s fastest growing and most-utilized community care program. This development is deeply disturbing. Based on previous testimony you provided to Congress, the Veterans Choice Program would have had about $1.1 billion left when the program was set to expire on August 7, 2017. You also testified that removing this sunset date would have allowed the Veterans Choice Program to extend well beyond this fiscal year and at least partially into fiscal year 2018. On that basis, both the Senate and the House worked diligently to pass the Veterans Choice Continuation Act to ensure the Veterans Choice Program would continue without disruption, and give Congress and the VA time to deliberate about the next version of Choice. Since then, you realized that due to strong demand for the Veterans Choice Program among veteran patients, the expenditure for the program was higher than anticipated – so much so that the VA will no longer have enough funds to operate the Veterans Choice Program through the current fiscal year. This discovery prompted the VA to hastily and carelessly decide to stop referring patients through the Veterans Choice Program under Choice First. As you know, Choice First has been vital in allowing veterans to access services not provided at the VA, such as chemotherapy, heart transplants and other lifesaving treatments. As a result, the VA instructed its Medical Centers to route all care through the traditional community care process. The consequences of the VA’s decision are profound. We are especially concerned about your decision to halt Choice First, which represents 50-85 percent of the care that third-party administrators (TPAs) coordinate. Without Choice First, these TPAs will effectively collapse and the VA will lose billions of dollars in investments that have made the Veterans Choice Program successful. Currently, 30 percent of total VA care is coordinated through the Veterans Choice Program. If you allow TPAs to collapse, the VA will reassume responsibility for coordinating care, which the VA has neither the infrastructure nor the capacity to do. The results of such a scenario would be catastrophic. The VA has put Congress in yet another precarious situation of the VA’s own making and requires a bail out to address the fiscal year 2017 shortfall or the VA will remove access to care for veterans under the Veterans Choice Program. There are limited options available to provide authority to the VA and we seek a detailed and thorough explanation as to what the VA needs to sustain the Veterans Choice Program through the remainder of the fiscal year as well as how the VA will keep the Veterans Choice Program up-and-running into fiscal year 2018. It is essential that the VA immediately corrects the failures that created this dire situation. We request you answer the following questions: You have asked Congress to pass legislation that allows the VA to freely transfer funds between all community care accounts. Does the VA have sufficient funds in these existing accounts to fully supplement the Veterans Choice Program through FY17? What legislative barriers prevent the VA from merging the community care accounts? Will you, for example, be in violation of the Antideficiency Act if Congress does not provide the aforementioned funding flexibility? Given the gravity of this situation, in your opinion, if additional funds are required - should the funds require an emergency designation? Between March and May of this year, veterans’ participation in the Veterans Choice Program increased substantially – far exceeding forecasted estimates. Why didn’t the VA immediately notify Congress about the funding challenges this would pose to the Veterans Choice Program? It is clear that the model the VA has been using to forecast anticipated costs is not accurate or reliable. What steps will you take to collect more accurate and reliable data to inform future projections and budget decisions regarding the Veterans Choice Program? What heightened level of transparency and oversight can Congress expect to have to ensure the reliability of any future funding requests? When you asked Congress to eliminate the sunset date for the pilot of the Veterans Choice Program, you also asked to become the primary payer for this program. However, as previously noted, the VA has not demonstrated an ability to accurately forecast the cost of care. Moreover, the VA does not have any historical data in place to predict the costs of becoming the primary payer. What, if any, measures have you taken to account for this in the Veterans Choice Program shortfall request for FY17 and FY18? While the VA’s budget has nearly tripled over the last decade, the VA has retained its position on the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) “high risk” list year after year. The GAO recently expressed concern “about the VA’s ability to ensure its resources are being used cost-effectively and efficiently to improve veterans’ timely access to health care, and to ensure the quality and safety of that care.” Given the current situation before us and the GAO’s assessment, we are deeply concerned about your ability to reliably deliver quality care to our veterans. Unless Congress appropriates emergency funding to continue the Veterans Choice Program, hundreds of thousands of veterans who now rely on the Choice Card will be sent back to a VA that cannot effectively manage or coordinate their care. This is only one symptom of many larger issues that have plagued the VA for years, and that will continue until we achieve true reform. As a nation, we cannot send our veterans back to the pre-scandal days in which veterans were subjected to unacceptable wait-times for appointments and were treated more like a burden instead of heroes who deserve the best care our country has to offer. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request. Sincerely, John McCain Jerry MoranThom Tillis Dean Heller ###
06.22.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, attended a hearing regarding the MS-13 gang and its role in illegal immigration along the southern border. Senator Tillis on need to effectively secure the border:“I think if we, up here, listen to what the Border Patrol are saying, there’s a way to secure the border. And there’s a way to do it that will make the officers operate in a safer environment. And I think that we need to dispense with the ‘we don’t need borders, we need bridges’ discussion at one end of the spectrum, and the other end of the spectrum that says that ‘we need to build a structure that can be viewed from outer space.’ There is a happy medium that the experts on the ground have said through people, technology, and infrastructure… that can make Border Patrol Agents more safe.” Senator Tillis on addressing the humanitarian problem at the southern border:“It would seem to me that to the extent that we put people, technology and infrastructure on the border, we’re not only addressing a national security problem, but we may also be addressing a humanitarian element in terms of limiting the amount of human smuggling that’s occurring that ultimately get into drug trafficking, human trafficking, prostitution, and other things that occur that create the currency that MS-13 uses to run their organization.” Senator Tillis on viable solutions at the southern border:“We have to implement policies that make it more likely that people in the communities feel safer working with law enforcement. We have to implement policies that let Homeland Security get into every jail in the United States and investigate more thoroughly the criminal enterprises that these TCOs [Transnational Criminal Organizations] represent. And we have to implement policies that are reasonable and respectful for illegally present children. That’s how you start solving this problem.” ###
06.22.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the text of the Senate’s health care discussion draft was released: “Health care is a critically important issue that affects every single American, and I’ve heard countless stories from North Carolinians who have had their lives upended by Obamacare, from hardworking parents unable to afford skyrocketing premiums to insure their families to small business owners who have been forced to cut hours or even let go of employees because of the law’s costly mandates. As I’ve said repeatedly, any replacement plan must be a net improvement over Obamacare, and I look forward to carefully reviewing the draft legislation over the next several days.”
06.21.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary John Kelly’s commitment to expand the number of H-2B visas available this fiscal year, which would begin in late July at the earliest: “Last week, I had a conversation with Secretary Kelly, where I stressed the need for DHS to address the H-2B visa shortage to help the small businesses across the nation that need them to keep their doors open. I appreciate Secretary Kelly’s willingness to address this issue, and his commitment will provide a short-term fix. While I have some concerns about the timeline for granting the additional visas, I look forward to working with Secretary Kelly and my colleagues in Congress on ways to provide more long-term certainty for America’s seasonal small businesses.” Senator Tillis has led bipartisan efforts to ensure American small businesses have access to temporary, seasonal workers they need to sustain their businesses and support American jobs. Earlier this year, Senators Tillis and Angus King (I-ME) introduced the Save Our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act of 2017 to improve the H-2B program and assist small businesses. In May, Tillis and King also led a bipartisan and bicameral letter to the Secretaries of Homeland Security and Labor urging them to take “swift and decisive action” to approve applications for H-2B workers. Important Facts About The H-2B Visa Program H-2B workers support American jobs and small businesses. Every H-2B worker creates or sustains 4.64 American jobs on average according to a study conducted by the American Enterprise Institute. As required by law, employers must first make a concerted effort to hire American workers to fill open positions. H-2B visas fill needs for American small businesses when there are not enough able and willing American workers to fill the temporary, seasonal positions. Employers often have to spend more money to hire temporary H-2B workers, who are paid a prevailing wage that is set by the U.S. Department of Labor. ###
06.21.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) to introduce bipartisan legislation that streamlines and eases the burden on the process whereby active-duty military, reservists and veterans apply for their commercial driver’s license. “The brave men and women that serve in the U.S. military learn a wide-range of skills applicable to jobs once they enter the civilian workforce, but too often face unnecessary barriers that makes it harder for them to find jobs,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation will eliminate burdensome red tape so our active-duty military, reservists, and veterans can receive the DOT-required health examination and use the experience they gained serving our nation to count towards the credit needed to obtain a commercial driver’s license.” “We should be making it easier, not harder, for members of the armed forces to be gainfully employed both while they are in the reserves and after they complete their service,” said Senator Cornyn. “The servicemen and women who have experience operating large military vehicles should be able to easily apply their skills and knowledge when seeking a commercial driver’s license, and this legislation allows for just that.” “Veterans who have the training and experience to operate heavy trucks and buses under tough conditions in the military have the skills needed to drive trucks on our highways,” said Senator Warren. “This bipartisan bill will remove legal obstacles delaying servicemembers from getting commercial drivers’ licenses. It’s a straightforward fix that will benefit veterans looking for good jobs and that will help employers looking for talented employees.” Background: The latest surface transportation reauthorization bill, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, directed the Secretary of Transportation to establish a unique, streamlined set of standards for veterans applying for a CDL. The standards exempt veterans from all or a portion of civilian commercial vehicle driving tests if that veteran had experience driving similar vehicles while in the armed forces or reserves. Additionally, the standards allow veterans’ formal military training to count as credit towards the commercial motor vehicles minimum requirements to obtain a license. However, the FAST Act did not include active-duty members of the military and reservists in their application of standards for veterans with previous training in military driving. To correct this, the Department of Transportation (USDOT) granted a two-year exemption allowing states to waive the commercial driver’s licenses knowledge test for current service members, reservists, and national guardsmen if they completed military heavy-training programs and had been regularly employed in a military position requiring the operation of heavy vehicles within the past year prior to their application. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 makes the USDOT’s two-year exemption permanent, providing active-duty service members and reservists the same training and testing standards granted to veterans under the FAST Act. The legislation also makes it easier for veterans to receive the DOT-required health examination to hold a commercial driver’s license. The FAST Act contained a provision requiring USDOT and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to collaborate and develop a streamlined and efficient process whereby VA physicians can join the National Registry for Certified Medical Examiners (NRCME). USDOT requires that all CDL holders be examined by physicians certified by the NRCME. Currently, there is an extremely low number of physicians in the VA health system certified by the NRCME, forcing veterans to either travel exorbitant distances to see a CME or pay out of pocket for a non-VA medical professional. The Jobs for our Heroes Act of 2017 Act allows all qualified VA medical professionals, including advanced practice nurses and physician assistants, to use the same new process afforded to VA physicians. ###
06.15.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC), members of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, attended a hearing about supporting military caregivers and introduced former North Carolina Senator Elizabeth Dole and Wilmington, NC residents Tom Ward, a veteran diagnosed with ALS, and Mary Ward, his wife and military caregiver, as panelists. Watch the introductions HERE. Later in the hearing, Senator Tillis urged any veterans having issues with the VA to contact the offices of their representatives, noting the need to ensure military caregivers have the support and resources they need. Watch Senator Tillis speak HERE. Former Senator Dole on the value of military caregivers:“Our goal moving forward is an America where military caregivers are empowered, appreciated and recognized for their service, an America where military caregivers are woven into the very fabric of the nation’s appreciation of our military. And we need the support of each and every American.” Senator Tillis on veterans contacting his office:“We’ve got a lot of red tape to cut through in the VA and the DoD. Between now and the time we get through it, let your Senate offices in your home states be the scissors. My office recently opened up our 10,000th case and 6,000 have been veteran related. The next time that you deal with the VA on benefits that you’re entitled to and you’re not getting the right answer, let your next phone call be to the senator of your choice in your state. Make it our job because we owe it to you.” Senator Tillis on the need to support military caregivers:“I really think that we have to touch on the economic case for doing this. If the burden continues to increase on caregivers, then we will have fewer caregivers. And we will end up having to pay a price for less care, and less valuable care, to the veterans.” ###
06.15.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Banking Committee, issued the following statement after voting in favor of bipartisan legislation to impose new sanctions on Iran and Russia. “Putin has meddled in the elections of the United States and other democracies and has repeatedly violated the sovereignty of Russia’s neighbors. The Iranian regime remains the chief state sponsor of global terrorism and continues to develop their ballistic missile capabilities, which threatens the security of America and our allies,” said Senator Tillis. “These sanctions send a clear and unified message to the Russian and Iranian regimes that America will hold them accountable for their transgressions.” Background on Iran Sanctions: New mandatory ballistic missile sanctions on Iran and on persons involved with Iran’s program. Applies terrorism sanctions to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Requires the President to block the property of any person or entity involved in the supply, sale, or transfer of prohibited arms or related material to or from Iran. Background on Russia Sanctions: Mandates a Congressional review if sanctions on Russia are relaxed, suspended, or terminated. Codifies and strengthens existing sanctions contained in executive orders on Russia. Imposing new sanction on: corrupt Russian actors; those seeking to evade sanctions; those supplying weapons to the Assad regime; those conducting malicious cyber activity on behalf of the Russian government; and those doing business with Russian intelligence and defense sectors. Allows broad new sanctions on key sectors of Russia’s economy, including mining, metals, shipping, and railways. ###
06.06.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, applauded the Senate’s unanimous passage of the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Jon Tester (D-MT) that would reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by allowing the secretary to dismiss bad employees and ensure appropriate due process protections for whistleblowers. “This bipartisan legislation will give the VA the long-overdue authority to remove bad actors and put the people in place we need to give veterans the care they need and deserve,” said Senator Tillis. “While the majority of employees at the VA are hardworking individuals who are committed to providing the best healthcare possible for our veterans, it is unacceptable the VA has to comb through layers of red-tape to remove poor-performing employees, and it is my hope the legislation quickly becomes law so the VA has the flexibility it needs to have the right personnel in place.” The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act is widely supported by key veterans stakeholders including the VA and U.S. House VA committee leadership. It has also won the support of numerous veterans advocacy groups that represent millions of veterans in the United States and key government accountability groups. Read more about the legislation’s support here. Background:The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act increases the VA’s authority to remove employees at all levels of the department, shortens the removal process and ensures an individual removed from the VA is not kept on the VA’s payroll while appealing that decision. It will also make it easier for the VA to remove poor performing senior executives and replace them with qualified candidates. Additionally, any appeals by senior VA executives would no longer be brought before the Merit Systems Protection Board, but instead would be handled directly by the VA secretary under an expedited timeline. The legislation will establish in law the newly created Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection within the VA and includes a number of other provisions to hold employees accountable, including: Requires the VA to evaluate supervisors based on the protection of whistleblowers; Incentivizes managers to address poor performance and misconduct among employees by requiring the VA secretary to include this as part of the annual performance plan; Prohibits bonuses for employees who have been found guilty of wrongdoing; and Prohibits relocation expenses to employees who abuse the system. ###
06.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that Ted Lehman will serve as his next Chief of Staff. Lehman is currently the Chief Counsel for Nominations and Senior Counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee under Chairman Chuck Grassley. Lehman, who has been a counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee since 2009, most recently played a leading role on behalf of the Chairman in the successful effort to confirm Judge Neil Gorsuch as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, and has been extensively involved in several other Supreme Court nominations and numerous senior Executive nominations, including the Attorney General and Solicitor General. In addition to his nominations related responsibilities, Lehman handled a number of legislative matters within the Judiciary Committee’s jurisdiction. Lehman also has years of private sector experience as a litigator, serving as an associate for Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, one of the largest law firms in the world, where he handled both civil and criminal litigation matters. He began his legal career as a law clerk to then Chief Judge Thomas F. Hogan, on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. “Ted brings a wealth of invaluable Senate policy and procedural experience, and is widely respected for his work on behalf of the Chairman’s priorities on the Judiciary Committee to both confirm nominees and pass bipartisan legislation,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Ted’s experience and expertise, particularly as a chief counsel and senior advisor on the Judiciary Committee, will be vital to assisting my efforts to work with my colleagues in both parties to pursue bipartisan solutions, from fixing our criminal justice system to reforming our immigration laws.” “I’ve relied on Ted’s judgment for a number of years,” said Chairman Chuck Grassley. “While I’m sorry to see him leave my Committee staff, I’m pleased he’ll be staying in the Senate family. I’m confident he will serve Senator Tillis and North Carolina well, just as he has me and the state of Iowa.” ###
06.05.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Chairman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel and member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, issued the following statement after U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin announced that the VA will adopt the same Electronic Health Record (EHR) system as the Department of Defense for veterans’ medical records: “I applaud the VA for taking action to directly address the longstanding electronic records issue that has plagued the VA to the detriment of our veterans. This decision will present an opportunity to achieve a stronger partnership between DOD & VA health information systems, moving us one step closer to streamlining the transition period for veterans entering the VA’s medical system and providing VA providers with a full clinical picture of the veteran’s medical history.” Background:The VA currently uses an EHR system developed by the VA known as the Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture, or VistA. The VistA system is in need of major modernization to keep pace with the improvements in health information technology and cybersecurity, and software development is not a core competency of VA, according to VA Secretary Shulkin. Today’s announcement moves the VA towards a commercial off-the-shelf product and the same EHR system as DoD, now known as MHS GENESIS, which at its core consists of Cerner Millennium. According to Secretary Shulkin, the VA’s adoption of the same EHR system as DoD will ultimately result in all patient data residing in one common system and enable seamless care between the Departments without the manual and electronic exchange and reconciliation of data between two separate systems. Furthermore, VA Secretary Shulkin announced the VA must work to improve integration with academic affiliates and community partners, many of whom are on different IT platforms. ###
06.02.2017	U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) recently co-sponsored the Cannabidiol Research Expansion Act, a bill to support research initiatives on the potential benefits of substances such as cannabidiol (CBD) that are derived from marijuana. “When it comes to our nation’s efforts to cure diseases, we shouldn’t let regulations be a roadblock to legitimate and responsible medical research,” said Senator Tillis. “The Cannabidiol Research Expansion Act is a commonsense, bipartisan effort to remove unnecessary barriers to give researchers an improved ability to study the potential benefits and risks of cannabidiol and other components that are derived from the marijuana plant.” The bill was introduced by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Chuck Grassley (R-IA). Currently, CBD is classified as a Schedule I drug. As a result, research on CBD is subject to extremely stringent regulations, which has posed a significant obstacle to medical developments and research. Thousands of parents nationwide have used CBD oil to help their children who suffer from intractable epilepsy, often with positive results. However, because no drug products containing CBD have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration to date, CBD is unregulated and its effectiveness is unpredictable. The goal of the Cannabidiol Research Expansion Act is to ensure research on CBD and other potentially beneficial marijuana-derived substances is based on sound science while simultaneously reducing the regulatory barriers associated with conducting research on marijuana. Key provisions of the bill include: Requiring the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services to complete an analysis to determine the medical value of CBD within one year. Allowing research on CBD to be conducted using a Schedule II registration, rather than the more stringent Schedule I classification. Streamlining the process by which researchers notify the federal government of changes to their research protocols or quantity of marijuana needed. Reducing research barriers by requiring changes to approved protocols to be determined in 30 days. Allowing accredited research institutions, medical schools, practitioners and pharmaceutical companies to manufacture, distribute, dispense, or possess marijuana or cannabidiol for the purpose of authorized medical research. Creating a pathway for the commercial production of FDA-approved marijuana-derived medications. Allowing the possession of non-psychoactive components of marijuana solely for the treatment of epilepsy. Requiring the Department of Health and Human Services to expand research on CBD and other non-psychoactive components of marijuana. ###
05.31.2017	Naval Hospital Camp Lejeune will become Naval Medical Center Camp Lejeune, enhancing medical capabilities at Camp Lejeune and the delivery of health care for Marines, sailors, military families, veterans, and civilians. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, hosted a roundtable discussion at Onslow Memorial Hospital in Jacksonville, N.C., on developing an integrated military-civilian trauma system in Eastern North Carolina. During the roundtable, Senator Tillis announced that Naval Hospital Camp Lejeune will become the Naval Medical Center Camp Lejeune, upgrading the trauma system designation which will pave the way for the establishment of a joint military-civilian trauma system to provide trauma care for DOD beneficiaries, veterans, and civilians. Following the roundtable discussion, Senator Tillis toured Naval Hospital Camp Lejeune. The joint military-civilian trauma system will be the first pilot program of its kind in the nation, and will bring a number of critical benefits, including providing military medical professionals with the skills, experience, and case volume they need to perform the combat casualty care mission, and significantly reducing the transit times for many civilian trauma patients who live in areas between Greenville and Wilmington. While Vidant Medical Center in Greenville and New Hanover Regional Hospital in Wilmington provide outstanding trauma care, many Eastern North Carolina residents live too far away to have access to timely trauma care within the all-important ‘golden hour’ following a trauma incident. A study conducted by the UNC School of Medicine’s Division of Cardiology found that the upgraded trauma system should result in a 20% decline in non-natural deaths, potentially saving about 387 lives over the next decade. “The Navy has made tremendous strides to improve health care services for military personnel, and today’s announcement takes their commitment one step further, creating a joint military-civilian trauma system at Camp Lejeune to provide trauma services for civilians in Eastern North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “In addition to enhancing trauma training for military medics, this upgrade will also have a major impact for Marines, sailors, military families, veterans, and civilians in the area, providing many citizens with more timely and accessible trauma care. I look forward to working closely with military and civilian health care leaders to explore further opportunities to improve health outcomes and the experience for DOD beneficiaries and civilians.” ###
05.31.2017	More than 100,000 military personnel who served in Iraq and Afghanistan have signed up for the Department of Veterans Affairs burn pit exposure registry WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) have led a bipartisan group of senators in calling for Pentagon funding and research of burn bit exposure. More than 100,000 military personnel who served in Iraq and Afghanistan have signed up for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) burn pit exposure registry. In a letter to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Tillis, Klobuchar, and a group of senators requested that burn pit exposure be included as a congressionally directed Department of Defense research topic and that robust funding for research on burn pit exposure and related illnesses be provided in the FY 2018 defense appropriations bill. “More than 100,000 military personnel who served in Iraq and Afghanistan have signed up for the VA' s burn pit exposure registry. Health effects from exposure to chemicals found in burn pits may include cancer, neurological effects, reproductive effects, respiratory toxicity, and cardiovascular toxicity. Troops who have worked in these areas are subject to higher rates of asthma, emphysema, and rare lung disorders,” the senators wrote. “In response to these health effects, we introduced the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act to create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs to address the health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits. In addition to creating a center of excellence, more research and treatment options should be developed through the Department of Defense Peer Reviewed Medical Research Program. We respectfully request that burn pit exposure be included as a congressionally directed topic area and that robust funding in the FY 2018 defense appropriations bill is provided to fund research on burn pit exposure and related illnesses.” In addition to Tillis and Klobuchar, the letter was also signed by Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Chris Coons (D-DE), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), and Bill Nelson (D-FL). Klobuchar and Tillis have led Senate efforts to support our troops when they return home and improve healthcare for our nation’s servicemembers and veterans. In February, the lawmakers introduced the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act. The bipartisan bill would create a center of excellence within the VA to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. Klobuchar and Tillis also introduced this legislation in the last Congress. The full text of the senators’ letter is below: Dear Chairman Cochran, Vice Chairmen Leahy and Durbin: As the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense considers appropriations for the 2018 fiscal year (FY 2018), we respectfully ask that you ensure burn pit exposure is included in the FY 2018 Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs and provide robust funding for the treatment and research of burn pit exposure. More than 100,000 military personnel who served in Iraq and Afghanistan have signed up for the VA' s burn pit exposure registry. These veterans were exposed to a variety of potentially harmful substances that the smoke produced from the burning of waste on military bases. Plastic, aerosol cans, electronic equipment, human waste, tires, and batteries were thrown into open pits, often doused with jet fuel, and set on fire. As a result, many deployed servicemembers were exposed to smoke from these open-air burn pits. Health effects from exposure to chemicals found in burn pits may include cancer, neurological effects, reproductive effects, respiratory toxicity, and cardiovascular toxicity. Troops who have worked in these areas are subject to higher rates of asthma, emphysema, and rare lung disorders. In response to these health effects, we introduced the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act to create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs to address the health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits. In addition to creating a center of excellence, more research and treatment options should be developed through the Department of Defense Peer Reviewed Medical Research Program. We respectfully request that burn pit exposure be included as a congressionally directed topic area and that robust funding in the FY 2018 defense appropriations bill is provided to fund research on burn pit exposure and related illnesses. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, ###
05.25.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, applauded the committee passage of the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Jon Tester (R-MT) to improve accountability at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “We applaud today’s bipartisan committee vote to advance this critical legislation that will help change the culture and improve accountability at the VA,” said the senators following today’s committee vote. “We hope the Senate will follow suit and take up this bipartisan legislation without delay so that VA Secretary Shulkin has the tools he needs to hold bad actors accountable and protect whistleblowers from the threat of retaliation.” Other co-sponsors of the bill include Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), John Boozman (R-AR), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Steve Daines (R-MT), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Dean Heller (R-NV), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), John Kennedy (R-LA), John McCain (R-AZ), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Bill Nelson (D-FL), David Perdue (R-GA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Dan Sullivan (R-AL), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The measure, which passed the committee by voice vote, would reform the VA by allowing the secretary to dismiss bad employees and ensure appropriate due process protections for whistleblowers. Following today’s committee approval, the legislation now moves to the full Senate for a vote on final passage. The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act is widely supported by key veterans stakeholders including the VA and U.S. House VA committee leadership. This legislation has also won the support of several veterans advocacy groups that represent millions of veterans in the United States and key government accountability groups. Read more about the legislation’s support here. ###
05.24.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Vice Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration, attended a hearing with the Acting Deputy Commissioner for U.S. Customs and Border Protection present, Ron Vitiello, and called for securing the border from a humanitarian perspective. Click HERE to watch the Senator's comments. "This is a humanitarian crisis regardless of how you feel about border security,” said Senator Tillis. “These are people crossing the border illegally who are dying. And they’re dying because we don’t have the right mix of people, technology and infrastructure in place to have the situational awareness where we can apprehend them and save them. I feel like before we start solving the broader problem that we would get to what’s outside the scope of this committee, we ought to talk about ending the humanitarian crisis and the growth of the problem by providing Border Patrol Agents all with the resources that they need to secure it." ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Recently, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of Senators led by Ben Cardin (D-Md.) and Todd Young (R-Ind.) to introduce legislation to bolster U.S. government efforts to prevent genocide and other human rights atrocities around the world. “America has been the defender and hope for persecuted peoples across the globe. It is a trait that has defined our nation as unique in the history of the world,” said Senator Tillis. “The rise of terrorist organizations like ISIL and al-Shabaab that are committing genocide against minority ethnic and religious groups has created a desperate need for American leadership and moral clarity. I’m honored to join my colleagues in a bipartisan effort to enhance our nation’s ability to detect the early warning signs of atrocities, which can ultimately help protect at-risk groups and save innocent lives.” “Atrocity crimes tragically persist around the globe, from Syria and South Sudan to Burma and Iraq. This bill, named in honor of the courageous, inspiring Holocaust survivor and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel, strengthens the U.S. government’s infrastructure to prevent, mitigate, and respond to genocide and other mass atrocities wherever they may occur,” said Senator Cardin. “Our values and national security interests require us to ensure that the United States utilizes the full arsenal of diplomatic, economic, and legal tools to take meaningful action before atrocities occur. The United States must do a better job of responding earlier and more effectively to these heinous crimes.” “The United States has a moral and strategic imperative to help prevent and respond to acts of genocide and other mass atrocities, and this legislation would ensure the U.S. government is better prepared to fulfill this serious responsibility,” said Senator Young. “This bipartisan legislation would help the United States put the commitment of ‘Never Again’ into action.” “Elie Wiesel taught us that ‘silence encourages the tormenter, never the tormented.’ We cannot turn our backs on suffering wherever it occurs, or we will again be judged by history,” said Senator Durbin. “This legislation will help the State Department better identify and respond to the threat of genocide and help us keep our promise to past generations of genocide survivors.” The Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2017 would establish a Mass Atrocities Task Force within the State Department to adequately monitor, analyze and address atrocities worldwide by coordinating multiple agencies across the U.S. government; identifying gaps in U.S. policy; and consulting with NGOs and other groups dedicated to atrocity prevention. The bill also recommends that the Director of National Intelligence include atrocity crime information in their annual report to Congress on U.S. national security threats, and authorizes training for U.S. Foreign Service Officers in recognizing and reporting on early signs of atrocities and transitional justice measures. The legislation also authorizes the Complex Crises Fund, which supports U.S. prevention of or response to atrocities. Joining the bill as original cosponsors are U.S. Senators Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Recently, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan coalition led by Senators Mark R. Warner (D-VA) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) to introduce legislation establishing a new infrastructure financing authority to help states and localities better leverage private funds to build and maintain the nation’s outdated infrastructure. The Building and Renewing Infrastructure for Development and Growth in Employment (BRIDGE) Act helps to address the nation’s alarming investment shortfall in maintaining and improving our transportation network, water and wastewater systems and energy infrastructure. The legislation would provide additional financing tools for states and localities to create new jobs here at home while also increasing our nation’s economic competitiveness. “The BRIDGE Act is a bipartisan, commonsense solution that will help North Carolina and states across the country utilize private funds for building and maintaining important infrastructure,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senators Warner and Blunt for their leadership to repair our nation’s infrastructure and create jobs for hardworking Americans.” “As we mark the 5th annual Infrastructure Week, we must think boldly and make real investments in our nation’s infrastructure rather than kick the can down the road with short-term fixes,” said Senator Warner. “The BRIDGE Act offers a bold, bipartisan solution to help address our infrastructure needs by incentivizing private investment and pairing it with public resources. This legislation will set a clear framework that will help create jobs, expand U.S. commerce and trade, and keep American businesses competitive.” “Missouri is a transportation hub, and improving our roads, bridges, and waterways is critical for economic growth in our state and across the nation,” said Senator Blunt. “This bipartisan bill will provide much-needed resources to strengthen infrastructure and help ensure Missouri’s farmers, manufacturers, and small businesses are able to remain competitive in an increasingly global economy.” The BRIDGE Act is also cosponsored by Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Chris Coons (D-DE), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Dean Heller (R-NV), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). To help address this funding shortfall for our nation’s transportation, water and energy infrastructure, the BRIDGE Act will establish an independent, nonpartisan financing authority to complement existing U.S. infrastructure funding. The authority would provide loans and loan guarantees to help states and localities fund the most economically viable road, bridge, rail, port, water, sewer, and other significant infrastructure projects. The authority would receive initial seed funding of up to $10 billion, which could incentivize private sector investment and make possible $300 billion or more in total project investment. The authority is structured in a way to make it self-sustaining over time without requiring additional federal appropriations. Individuals and organizations endorsing this legislation include Sean McGarvey, President of the North America's Building Trades Unions; Ed Rendell, Co-Chair of Building America’s Future and former Governor of Pennsylvania; Chris Spear, President and CEO of the American Trucking Association; Kurt J. Nagle, President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities; Elaine Nessle, Executive Director of the Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors; Jane F. Garvey, North America Chairman of Meridiam Infrastructure and former Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration; Adrea Turner, Director of Transportation for America; and Jennifer Aument, Transurban Group General Manager for North America. For more information on key provisions of the BRIDGE Act, click here. ###
05.23.2017	This evening at 5:30 pm, Senator Richard Burr will join me to host a live telephone town hall, where we’ll have a conversation with North Carolinians about important issues facing our state and country. Beginning at 5:30 pm, click on the link below to submit a question and listen live. *The time is subject to change due to the Senate schedule. We'll keep you updated with any changes to the time. http://Vekeo.buzz/tillis ###
05.23.2017	Recently, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan coalition led by Senators Mark R. Warner (D-VA) and Roy Blunt (R-MO) to introduce legislation establishing a new infrastructure financing authority to help states and localities better leverage private funds to build and maintain the nation’s outdated infrastructure. The Building and Renewing Infrastructure for Development and Growth in Employment (BRIDGE) Act helps to address the nation’s alarming investment shortfall in maintaining and improving our transportation network, water and wastewater systems and energy infrastructure. The legislation would provide additional financing tools for states and localities to create new jobs here at home while also increasing our nation’s economic competitiveness. “The BRIDGE Act is a bipartisan, commonsense solution that will help North Carolina and states across the country utilize private funds for building and maintaining important infrastructure,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senators Warner and Blunt for their leadership to repair our nation’s infrastructure and create jobs for hardworking Americans.” “As we mark the 5th annual Infrastructure Week, we must think boldly and make real investments in our nation’s infrastructure rather than kick the can down the road with short-term fixes,” said Senator Warner. “The BRIDGE Act offers a bold, bipartisan solution to help address our infrastructure needs by incentivizing private investment and pairing it with public resources. This legislation will set a clear framework that will help create jobs, expand U.S. commerce and trade, and keep American businesses competitive.” “Missouri is a transportation hub, and improving our roads, bridges, and waterways is critical for economic growth in our state and across the nation,” said Senator Blunt. “This bipartisan bill will provide much-needed resources to strengthen infrastructure and help ensure Missouri’s farmers, manufacturers, and small businesses are able to remain competitive in an increasingly global economy.” The BRIDGE Act is also cosponsored by Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Chris Coons (D-DE), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Dean Heller (R-NV), and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN). To help address this funding shortfall for our nation’s transportation, water and energy infrastructure, the BRIDGE Act will establish an independent, nonpartisan financing authority to complement existing U.S. infrastructure funding. The authority would provide loans and loan guarantees to help states and localities fund the most economically viable road, bridge, rail, port, water, sewer, and other significant infrastructure projects. The authority would receive initial seed funding of up to $10 billion, which could incentivize private sector investment and make possible $300 billion or more in total project investment. The authority is structured in a way to make it self-sustaining over time without requiring additional federal appropriations. Individuals and organizations endorsing this legislation include Sean McGarvey, President of the North America's Building Trades Unions; Ed Rendell, Co-Chair of Building America’s Future and former Governor of Pennsylvania; Chris Spear, President and CEO of the American Trucking Association; Kurt J. Nagle, President and CEO of the American Association of Port Authorities; Elaine Nessle, Executive Director of the Coalition for America’s Gateways and Trade Corridors; Jane F. Garvey, North America Chairman of Meridiam Infrastructure and former Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration; Adrea Turner, Director of Transportation for America; and Jennifer Aument, Transurban Group General Manager for North America. For more information on key provisions of the BRIDGE Act, click here. ###
05.19.2017	This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, co-sponsored the Back the Blue Act of 2017, legislation introduced by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) that would increase the penalties for criminals who intentionally target law enforcement officers, and provide new tools for officers to protect themselves. “Last year was one of the deadliest years ever for law enforcement officers, a stark reminder that these men and women go to work every day not knowing whether they’ll return home safely to their families,” said Senator Tillis. “Our law enforcement officers risk their lives to protect ours, and the Back the Blue Act will enact new laws that offer them much-needed support and will make criminals think twice before targeting them. Additionally, the Back the Blue Act takes a critically important step toward building and strengthening relationships between law enforcement and the communities in which they serve.” “Our law enforcement officers put their lives on the line every day to protect and serve families across Texas. Violent criminals who deliberately target those who protect and serve our communities should face swift and tough penalties and the Back the Blue Act sends that clear message. Every day, and particularly during National Police Week, we must give the men and women in blue our unparalleled support,” Senator Cornyn said. Background on the Back the Blue Act: Strengthens Laws to Protect Police Officers Creates a new federal crime for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to the death penalty and a mandatory minimum sentence of 30 years if death results; the offender would otherwise face a minimum sentence of 10 years. Creates a new federal crime for assaulting a federally funded law enforcement officer with escalating penalties, including mandatory minimums, based on the extent of any injury and the use of a dangerous weapon. However, no prosecution can be commenced absent certification by the Attorney General that prosecution is appropriate. Creates a new federal crime for interstate flight from justice to avoid prosecution for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years for this offense. Creates a Specific Aggravating Factor for Federal Death Penalty Prosecutions Clarifies that the murder or attempted murder of a law enforcement officer or first responder is a statutory aggravating favor for purposes of the federal death penalty. Limits Federal Habeas Relief for Murders of Law Enforcement Officers Imposes time limits and substantive limits on federal courts’ review of challenges to state-court convictions for crimes involving the murder of a public safety officer, when the public safety officer was engaged in the performance of official duties or on account of the performance of official duties. These changes are consistent with the fast-track procedures created in 1996, which are applied to federal death penalty cases. Limits Recovery of Certain Damages and Fees for Individuals Engaged in Felonies Limits the type of civil damages and attorney’s fees recoverable by a criminal as a result of purported injuries incurred during the commission of a felony or crime of violence. Expands Self-Defense and Second Amendment Rights for Law Enforcement Officers Allows law enforcement officers, subject to limited regulation, to carry firearms into federal facilities and other jurisdictions where such possession is otherwise prohibited. Opens Up Funding to Strengthen Relationships Between Police and Communities Expands opportunities to use grant funding to promote trust and improve relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve. Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Dean Heller (R-NV), David Perdue (R-GA), Rob Portman (R-OH), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), and Luther Strange (R-AL) also cosponsored the legislation. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after former FBI Director Robert Mueller was appointed to serve as special counsel: “Robert Mueller is an excellent choice for special counsel, and I welcome his appointment. He has a well-deserved reputation for fairness and independence from political pressure, and I have confidence he will lead this investigation with professionalism and impartiality, taking it wherever the facts may lead. “The Senate Intelligence Committee, led by Chairman Burr, is currently conducting a bipartisan investigation, and I expect Director Mueller will work with the Committee to ensure their investigation can move forward unimpeded.” ###
05.15.2017	U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Angus King (I-ME) and Congressmen Andy Harris (R-MD-01) and Bill Keating (D-MA-09) have led a bipartisan, bicameral group of 87 Members of Congress in sending a letter to the Secretaries of Homeland Security and Labor urging them to take immediate action to ensure that small and seasonal businesses across the nation are able to get the workers they need to operate during the busy summer months. In the letter, the Members of Congress emphasized that small and seasonal businesses need to begin hiring workers immediately in order to be ready for the fast-approaching summer months and urged Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly and Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta to help them by approving H-2B petitions in an expedited manner. Last week, in the government funding bill, Congress authorized the Departments to increase the number of H-2B visas allocated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. Previously the number had been capped at 66,000 annually – 33,000 for each half of the Fiscal Year. However, that cap was reached on March 13th of this year, with many small businesses still in need of seasonal employees to support their operations as the summer months approach. “Now that this omnibus has been signed into law, we encourage you to take swift and decisive action to ensure that small and seasonal businesses in our states can get the workers necessary to ensure a successful season,” the Members of Congress wrote. “Due to the time-sensitive nature of seasonal businesses, we also encourage you to take immediate steps to re-open the petition process and adjudicate any pending labor certifications that demonstrate the requirements set in the legislation.” The Members of Congress also emphasized the additional resources the government spending bill provided to the Department of Labor to help work more quickly through the backlog of labor certification requests. “Because seasonal businesses make the majority of their revenue during a short time period during the year, it is imperative these businesses are able to operate at full capacity in order to maximize their earnings. Unfortunately, delays in processing times within both DOL and DHS have caused a great deal of frustration and uncertainty among seasonal businesses,” they continued. “We encourage DHS and DOL to make efforts to allow for efficient processing for additional applications. This will not only help to alleviate concerns among employers, but it will also reduce the inevitable time-consuming inquiries to your agencies. By taking the necessary steps now, your agencies can streamline the process and help employers get their employees sooner.” In addition to Senators King and Tillis, the letter was also signed by: Senators Tom Carper (D-DE), Susan Collins (R-ME), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Chris Coons (D-DE), John Barrasso (R-WY), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), John Thune (R-SD), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Roger Wicker (R-MS); Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Mike Enzi (R-WY). In addition to Congressmen Harris and Keating, the letter was also signed by: Representatives Ralph Abraham (LA-05), Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Jack Bergman (MI-01), Mike Bishop (MI-08), Susan Brooks (IN-05), Steve Chabot (OH-01), Mike Coffman (CO-06), Barbara Comstock (VA-10), Michael Conaway (TX-11), Ryan Costello (PA-06), Kevin Cramer (ND-At large), Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Diana DeGette (CO-01), Michael Doyle (PA-14), John Faso (NY-19), Bob Gibbs (OH-07), Glenn Grothman (WI-06), Gregg Harper (MS-03), Clay Higgins (LA-03), Bill Huizenga (MI-02), Lynn Jenkins (KS-02), Bill Johnson (OH-06), Joseph Kennedy, III (MA-04), Ron Kind (WI-03), Ann Kuster (NH-02), James Langevin (RI-02), Robert Latta (OH-05), Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02), Billy Long (MO-07), David McKinley (WV-01), Patrick Meehan (PA-07), Luke Messer (IN-06), Paul Mitchell (MI-10), John Moolenaar (MI-04), Markwayne Mullin (OK-02), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Tim Murphy (PA-18), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Richard Nolan (MN-08), Stevan Pearce (NM-02) , Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bruce Poliquin (ME-02), Jared Polis (CO-02), Tom Rice (SC-07), Tom Rooney (FL-17), Mark Sanford (SC-01), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Pete Sessions (TX-32), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Chris Stewart (UT-02), Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (PA-05), Scott Tipton (CO-03), David Trott (MI-11), Fred Upton (MI-06), David Valadao (CA-21), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Tim Walberg (MI-07), Peter Welch (VT-At large), Robert Wittman (VA-01), Rob Woodall (GA-07), Kevin Yoder (KS-03), David Rouzer (NC-07), and John Rutherford (FL-04). The complete text of the letter is below: May 12, 2017 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Secretary Kelly and Secretary Acosta: Under Division F – the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2017, Title V, Section 543 of the FY 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, may approve petitions for admission under the H-2B Nonimmigrant Temporary Worker program up to the new statutory level set in the bill for this fiscal year. Now that this omnibus has been signed into law, we encourage you to take swift and decisive action to ensure that small and seasonal businesses in our states can get the workers necessary to ensure a successful season. Due to the time-sensitive nature of seasonal businesses, we also encourage you to take immediate steps to re-open the petition process and adjudicate any pending labor certifications that demonstrate the requirements set in the legislation. Small and seasonal businesses help our local communities thrive. In fact, small businesses across the country often rely on seasonal workers to help them operate during their peak seasons throughout the year. As you know, the statutory allocation for the fiscal year was reached on March 13, 2017. Because of this, many small businesses were not able to get workers they need, leading to potential reductions in operating hours or closures. Under the authority provided by Congress, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) can immediately help businesses hire the workers they need and help local economies as they head into their peak seasons. In addition to allowing for an H-2B cap adjustment, the FY 2017 Omnibus Appropriations Act provided resources to the Department of Labor’s (DOL) Office of Foreign Labor Certification to address the backlog of labor certification requests the agency is currently experiencing. Because seasonal businesses make the majority of their revenue during a short time period during the year, it is imperative these businesses are able to operate at full capacity in order to maximize their earnings. Unfortunately, delays in processing times within both DOL and DHS have caused a great deal of frustration and uncertainty among seasonal businesses. We encourage DHS and DOL to make efforts to allow for efficient processing for additional applications. This will not only help to alleviate concerns among employers, but it will also reduce the inevitable time-consuming inquiries to your agencies. By taking the necessary steps now, your agencies can streamline the process and help employers get their employees sooner. Thank you for your attention to this issue. We hope you will consider this request and act as soon as possible. ###
05.11.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act, a bill to provide for the responsible management of the wild-horse population around Corolla, North Carolina and the Outer Banks. Representative Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. “The Corolla horses are one of our many natural state treasures and I am proud to introduce legislation that will provide for the preservation of these wild-roaming horses that have inhabited North Carolina for hundreds of years,” said Senator Burr. “The beauty of the Corolla horses draws people from across North Carolina and the country to witness these wild animals in their natural habitat. Starting in 2011, I’ve made several efforts to ensure that our local communities have the tools they need to manage these herds without excessive bureaucratic involvement. I hope my colleagues will move swiftly to consider this legislation.” “A cherished part of our state’s history and an admired attraction, thousands of tourists visit North Carolina’s beaches each year to witness the majestic nature of the Corolla horses,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “This legislation will take the necessary and proper steps in protecting the health and safety of the wild animals and their habitat, while encouraging continued tourism and economic investment for our local coastal communities.” “The Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act will ensure the herd of free-roaming horses in Currituck County have the resources to thrive long into the future,” said Congressman Jones. “I will continue to fight for the longevity of the herd, so that our children and grandchildren will be able to experience this piece of North Carolina heritage for generations to come.” The Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of North Carolina, Currituck County and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to craft a new management plan to care for the wild horses that inhabit the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The Corolla wild horses do not exist anywhere else in the world. Their lineage can be traced back to the arrival of Spanish explorers on the Outer Banks in the 16th century. They are Colonial Spanish mustangs that have survived in the wild for the last four centuries and now roam across Currituck County, North Carolina. This legislation is supported by The Humane Society and American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. ###
05.11.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate Floor about the Senate’s recent success in repealing 14 burdensome regulations under the Congressional Review Act. Click HERE to watch Senator Tillis’ speech. “What we were trying to do is eliminate the duplication and the cost associated with layering regulations on top of regulations,” said Senator Tillis. “If we look at the regulatory burden on businesses, on homeowners, on state and local governments; there's a smart right-size way to implement regulations, and there's a costly, complex wrong way to implement regulations. I'm proud that we were able to get 14 resolutions of disapproval completed. What we ended up doing through this action over the past couple of months is reduce regulatory burden by $67 billion and we've eliminated some 56 million paperwork hours. We're cutting red tape, and that's a good thing.” ###
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the dismissal of FBI Director James Comey: “Throughout his career, Director Comey has served the nation with distinction, and I have found him to be professional and responsive during my interactions with him. While Director Comey has faced criticism from both Republican and Democratic elected officials, it is my belief he attempted to lead the FBI to the best of his ability given the difficult circumstances before him and the hyperpartisan political climate that exists in Washington.” ###
05.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, applauded the Senate’s confirmation of Dr. Heather Wilson as Secretary of the Air Force: “We are at a time when we need strong leadership in the Air Force, and I have confidence Dr. Wilson is up for the task,” said Senator Tillis. “I look forward to working closely with Secretary Wilson to ensure that we provide adequate Air Force support for airborne operations at Fort Bragg and the deployment of new KC-46 tankers to Seymour Johnson.” ###
05.05.2017	This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of 15 senators, including Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Ben Cardin (D-MD), in urging President Trump to prioritize advocacy for democracy and respect for human rights in the administration’s foreign policy agenda. U.S. Senators Todd Young (R-IN), Edward Markey (D-MA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Susan Collins (R-ME), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Cory Booker (D-NJ), and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) also joined the effort. “America has long been a leader in supporting individual rights,” the senators wrote. “It was more than 240 years ago that the Founding Fathers declared that all are created equal and endowed with inalienable rights, including life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. These principles have successfully formed the backbone of the American experiment in self- government. The rights the Founders recognized are not by any means solely ‘American,’ but rather are universal. Being fortunate to enjoy these freedoms ourselves, we have the moral imperative to promote democracy and human rights across the globe.” The full text of the senators’ letter is below. Dear Mr. President: As you carry out the responsibilities of the Office of the President, we in the Congress stand ready to work with you to ensure that America remains a leader in advocating for democracy and human rights. We urge your administration to make these issues a priority. As you know, America has long been a leader in supporting individual rights. It was more than 240 years ago that the Founding Fathers declared that all are created equal and endowed with inalienable rights, including life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. These principles have successfully formed the backbone of the American experiment in self- government. The rights the Founders recognized are not by any means solely “American,” but rather are universal. Being fortunate to enjoy these freedoms ourselves, we have the moral imperative to promote democracy and human rights across the globe. At a Senate Foreign Relations Committee subcommittee hearing earlier this year titled “Democracy and Human Rights: The Case for U.S. Leadership” human rights activists shared their stories of living under oppressive regimes. They made clear that they believe that the United States has a critical role to play in safeguarding the fundamental rights of all people. A world that is more democratic, respects human rights, and abides by the rule of law strengthens the security, stability, and prosperity of America. History has demonstrated time-and-again that free societies are more likely to be at peace with one another. Constitutional democracies are also less likely to fail and become breeding grounds for instability, terrorism, and migration. Democratic nations that respect good governance and the rights of their own citizens are also more likely to be economically successful, and to be stable and reliable trade and investment partners for the United States. Our economic partnerships with Japan, Germany, Taiwan, the Republic of Korea, and numerous other nations’ today stand as testament to the wisdom of far-sighted U.S. policy that seeks to develop good governance and strong democratic institutions as necessary enablers for strong economic partnerships as well. As we have seen over the past decade, there is a creeping authoritarian resurgence across the globe, against which we are the bulwark for individual rights and freedoms. America, since its founding, has led this fight, not just for the rights of Americans found in the Constitution, but for the rights of all. By elevating democracy and human rights to a prominent place on your foreign policy agenda you can make a measurable difference and make America safer, more prosperous, and more secure. There is longstanding and deep bipartisan Congressional commitment to advancing freedom around the world, just as Republican and Democratic administrations for decades have supported democracy and human rights, and we look forward to working with you on this important cause. We ask that, as you continue to formulate your foreign and defense policies, you put the promotion of democracy and human rights front-and-center as a primary pillar of America’s approach abroad. As we move forward with the process of holding confirmation hearings for your nominees to key foreign policy positions we will be assessing their commitment to uphold these important American values as they carry out our nation’s foreign policy. Sincerely, ###
05.04.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in favor of the FY17 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which funds key national and North Carolina priorities Senator Tillis has championed, including a pay raise for servicemembers, an increase of Afghan Special Immigrant Visas, and a provision that could result in an H-2B returning worker exemption. “While not perfect, this bipartisan legislation takes key steps to bolster our national security, including increasing defense spending to rebuild our military and providing more funds to help secure our border,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that the omnibus gives the Department of Homeland Security flexibility to implement a returning worker exemption that would give much-needed certainty and relief to seasonal small businesses across the nation. I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure this provision is implemented and that we have a workforce that can meet the growing needs of American businesses and local economies.” Provisions Included In The FY17 Omnibus Appropriations Bill Potential for H-2B Returning Worker ExemptionThe omnibus gives the Secretary of Homeland Security the discretion to implement a returning worker exemption of the H-2B program which is vital to small and seasonal employers in North Carolina across the country who depend on temporary workers to sustain their businesses and supplement their existing American workforce. A “returning worker exemption” provision allows workers who have previously worked in the U.S. through the H-2B visa program to not count against the visa cap. Tillis recently introduced bipartisan legislation that makes substantive reforms to the H-2B program to assist seasonal employers, which includes a returning worker exemption. Increase of Afghan Special Immigrant Visas (SIV) The spending bill contains 2,500 additional SIVs for Afghans who have assisted American servicemembers and the American mission in Afghanistan and often risk their lives in the process. Senator Tillis has long advocated for extending this vital national security program, and recently joined Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), John McCain (R-AZ) and Jack Reed (D-RI) to introduce bipartisan legislation to provide 2,500 more visas. The legislation was included as a provision in the omnibus. Increased Funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) The omnibus increases the NIH’s budget by more than $2 billion, including an increase of $400 million for Alzheimer’s research and an increase of $476 million for the National Cancer Institute. Senator Tillis has been an outspoken advocate for increasing NIH funding to assist with the discovery of more effective treatments for diseases and accelerate the pace of finding cures. Earlier this year, Tillis and a bipartisan groups of senators sent a letter to President Trump, calling on him to support an increased federal investment in Alzheimer’s research. Pay Raise for ServicemembersThe omnibus funds the 2.1% pay raise for servicemembers that was authorized by the FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This is the largest pay raise for troops in seven years. ###
05.04.2017	This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, co-sponsored The Veterans Overmedication Prevention Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator John McCain (R-AZ) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) that would direct the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to conduct an independent expert study on the deaths of all veterans being treated at the VA who died by suicide or from a drug overdose in the last five years.“Reducing the heartbreaking number of veterans who commit suicide every single day has been one of my top priorities as a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senator McCain for his leadership on this legislation to study the relationship between veteran suicides and prescription medication, an important step in highlighting the dangerous practice of over prescription so the VA can begin to implement safer and more effective treatment regimens.” “The tragedy of 20 veterans a day dying from suicide is a national scandal,” said Senator McCain. “Combatting this epidemic will require the best research and understanding about the key causes of veteran suicide, including whether overmedication of drugs, such as opioid painkillers, is a contributing factor in suicide-related deaths. This legislation would authorize an independent review of veterans who died of suicide or a drug overdose over the last five years to ensure doctors develop safe and effective treatment plans for their veteran patients. We have a long way to go to eradicate veteran suicide, but this legislation builds on important efforts to end the tragedy that continues to claim far too many lives far too soon.” “I have worked across party lines to hold the VA accountable because too often our veterans are getting hooked on drugs instead of the care they need. I'm proud to continue that work by joining this bipartisan effort led by Senator McCain to confront the overmedication of veterans and prevent suicide deaths,” said Senator Baldwin. “Our veterans and their families deserve solutions to the challenges they face and this bipartisan legislation can help improve and save the lives of those that have served and sacrificed for our country.” This legislation is also co-sponsored by Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Bill Cassidy (R-LA), and is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Vietnam Veterans of America, AMVETS, and the National Board for Certified Counselors. BackgroundThis review would ensure that the VA has accurate information about the relationship between veteran suicides and prescription medication. Additionally, this legislation would direct the VA to perform a more comprehensive review of its behavioral health workforce with a focus on mental health counselors in an effort to address workforce shortages. These professionals will increase access to services and help reduce the incidence of suicide. An average of 20 veterans a day die from suicide, accounting for nearly a quarter of all deaths from suicide among U.S. adults. Since 2001, the rate of veteran suicide has increased by 32 percent. After controlling for age and gender, this makes the risk of suicide 21 percent higher for veterans than the average U.S. adult. Since 2001, there has been a 259 percent increase in narcotics prescriptions. In the largest veteran populations, veterans die from accidental narcotic overdose at a 33 percent higher rate than the rest of the population. Veterans can “double dip” on prescription drugs by filling at the VA and in the community. Although the VA has established State Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs, there is no real enforcement. The legislation would require a National Academies of Science study to review: The total number of veterans who died by suicide death in the last five years; The total number of veterans who were involved in a violent, suicide or accidental death; The prevalence of medications or illegal substances in the system of each veteran who died; The number of instances in which the veteran was concurrently on multiple medications prescribed by VA physicians or non-VA physicians; The percentage of veterans who are receiving non-medication first-line treatment (such as cognitive behavioral therapy) as treatment and its effectiveness versus other treatments; An analysis, by state, of programs of the VA that collaborate with state Medicaid agencies, including an analysis of the sharing of prescription and behavioral health data for veterans; and Other aspects of care and recommendations to improve the safety and well-being of veterans. ###
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Gary Peters (D-MI) led a bipartisan group of their colleagues in a letter to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies urging them to support robust funding for State Veterans Homes that help provide long-term care to our nation’s veterans. Federal funds provided by the State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program allow states to make critical facility upgrades or construct new facilities to serve aging veteran populations. For fiscal year 2017, only 10 of the 57 highest priority projects were funded, resulting in a backlog of facilities requiring upgrades or new construction. “State Veterans Homes have a long history of helping ensure that veterans disabled by age, illness, or other conditions continue to receive the respect and dignity they have earned through their service,” the senators wrote in the letter. “The growing backlog of more than 100 construction and renovation projects across the country, the majority of which have already secured matching state appropriations, presents challenges to meeting the long-term care needs of these veterans, particularly in rural states or states lacking alternate VA-certified facilities.” State Veterans Homes are facilities that are operated by state governments and partner with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide nursing home, domiciliary, and adult day care services to veterans with special medical needs, including thousands of elderly veterans. Tillis and Peters were joined in the letter by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Tom Carper (D-DE), Chris Coons (D-DE), Susan Collins (R-ME), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Steve Daines (R-MT), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Dean Heller (R-NV), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Jim Risch (R-ID), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The full letter is below: Dear Chairman Moran and Ranking Member Schatz: As the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies considers appropriations for the 2018 fiscal year, we respectfully ask that you provide robust funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) State Home Construction Grant Program. Continued federal support for VA State Homes will build on the success of these facilities in serving the long-term care needs of our country’s veterans. State Veterans Homes have a long history of helping ensure that veterans disabled by age, illness, or other conditions continue to receive the respect and dignity they have earned through their service. Operated by state governments, these facilities play important roles in the effort to address the unique health and quality of life needs of each state’s veteran population. The VA partners with certified state homes to provide nursing home, domiciliary, and adult day care services to critical segments of the veteran population with continuing or special medical needs, including thousands of elderly veterans. Federal funds made available through the VA State Home Construction Grant Program allow states to make critical renovations and upgrades to existing facilities and construct new facilities to serve the aging veteran population. These grant opportunities are important to ensure that each State Veterans Home facility continues to meet VA’s standards and delivers the highest caliber of care to veterans. The growing backlog of more than 100 construction and renovation projects across the country, the majority of which have already secured matching state appropriations, presents challenges to meeting the long-term care needs of these veterans, particularly in rural states or states lacking alternate VA-certified facilities. We recognize the difficult budgetary decisions that the Subcommittee is facing. However, we want to underscore that robust funding for the VA State Home Construction Grant Program will allow State Homes to continue to provide high-quality care for our country’s elderly veterans and veterans with long-term medical needs. Thank you for your consideration of this request and for your continued support in ensuring our nation’s veterans live with dignity. ###
04.27.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced The Newborn Care Improvement Act, bipartisan legislation that would double the number of days veterans receive care for their newborns from seven to 14. Currently, a veteran must find outside healthcare for her child within seven days of birth or the baby will not have health insurance. “The brave men and women who served in our military deserve the best healthcare for them and their families,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senator Klobuchar for her partnership on this bipartisan legislation that justly increases the number of days veterans receive care for their newborns so families can have adequate time to find healthcare for their children.” “When our veterans sign up to serve, they often do so knowing they risk making the ultimate sacrifice,” said Senator Klobuchar. “As leaders, we have a duty to make sure we minimize the risks they confront at home and must do everything we can to make sure they have the resources they need to start a happy, healthy family.” Tillis and Klobuchar have led Senate efforts to support our troops when they return home and improve healthcare for our nation’s servicemembers and veterans. In February, the lawmakers introduced the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act. The bipartisan bill would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. Last month, Tillis and Klobuchar introduced the Savings for Servicemembers Act aimed at reducing the travel minimum to 50 miles, which would align the treatment of National Guard and Reservists with federal workers who have a 50 mile minimum for travel compensation, and reduce the cost of service to those in the Guard and Reserves. Every month, members of the National Guard travel to complete their required duty training and typically pay for travel out of their own pocket. Currently members can only claim their mileage and other travel expenses on their taxes if they travel over 100 miles from their residence for training or if travel expenses exceed two percent of a soldier’s adjusted gross income. ###
04.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the confirmation of Sonny Perdue as Agriculture Secretary and the future of the next Farm Bill: “I congratulate Sonny Perdue for being confirmed as Secretary of Agriculture. When I met with Secretary Perdue earlier this year, I was heartened by his knowledge of agriculture and his passion for this important industry. North Carolina is a significant contributor to America’s agricultural output and I am confident that Secretary Perdue will be a wonderful addition to the President’s cabinet and a perfect fit for USDA. “As Chairman Roberts and Ranking Member Stabenow continue early discussions on the next Farm Bill, I want the agricultural community in North Carolina to know I will be actively engaged with the Senate Agriculture Committee during this time. Through my meetings with farmers and agribusiness groups, it’s clear that we must address various concerns to give North Carolina the support and flexibility needed to continue towards the goal of a $100 billion agricultural industry. The recent growing seasons have been tough on our farmers. From near-historic low prices to natural disasters and increased labor costs, North Carolina farmers need the next Farm Bill to continue supporting our commodities while making the necessary reforms that allow support mechanisms to be helpful when needed. The American farmer and rancher supply the world with the safest, most affordable, abundant food supply. Notwithstanding current economic challenges, the American agricultural sector is resilient and impressive. Our farmers are the most efficient in the world and their productivity is the main reason Americans spend such a low percentage of their income on food. Given that global food demand is expected to increase substantially by 2050, the world cannot afford for American agriculture to decline. The next Farm Bill needs to build off the successes of the last and make reforms to programs that clearly need additional work. I look forward to working with Chairman Roberts and Ranking Member Stabenow during these important discussions.” ###
04.10.2017	Last week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of 60 Senators in writing to Senate leadership and urging them to leave the legislative filibuster intact and preserve the 60 vote threshold for legislation. “We are writing to urge you to support our efforts to preserve existing rules, practices, and traditions as they pertain to the right of Members to engage in extended debate on legislation before the United States Senate,” the Senators wrote. “Senators have expressed a variety of opinions about the appropriateness of limiting debate when we are considering judicial and executive branch nominations. Regardless of our past disagreements on that issue, we are united in our determination to preserve the ability of Members to engage in extended debate when bills are on the Senate floor.” “We are mindful of the unique role the Senate plays in the legislative process, and we are steadfastly committed to ensuring that this great American institution continues to serve as the world’s greatest deliberative body,” the Senators continued. “Therefore, we are asking you to join us in opposing any effort to curtail the existing rights and prerogatives of Senators to engage in full, robust, and extended debate as we consider legislation before this body in the future.” The filibuster is a legislative procedure used by Senators dating back to the 1850s, when it was applied to efforts to hold the Senate floor in order to prevent a vote on a bill. Historically, the threshold for overcoming a filibuster is for 60 Senators to agree to vote to end debate. The letter was signed by 61 U.S. Senators. In addition to Tillis, the letter was also signed by U.S. Senators: Susan Collins (R-ME), Chris Coons (D-DE), Jack Reed (D-RI), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), John McCain (R-AZ), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Luther Strange (R-AL), Richard Burr (R-NC), Angus King (I-ME), Mark Warner (D-VA), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Bob Casey (D-PA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), John Boozman (R-AR), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), John Thune (R-SD), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), Michael Enzi (R-WY), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Dean Heller (R-NV), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Rob Portman (R-OH), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), John Kennedy (R-LA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Jon Tester (D-MT), Ben Sasse (R-NE), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Todd Young (R-IN), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Ed Markey (D-MA), Mike Lee (R-UT), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Bob Menendez (D-NJ). The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Mitch McConnell The Honorable Charles E. SchumerMajority Leader Democratic LeaderUnited States Senate United States SenateWashington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Democratic Leader Schumer: We are writing to urge you to support our efforts to preserve existing rules, practices, and traditions as they pertain to the right of Members to engage in extended debate on legislation before the United States Senate. Senators have expressed a variety of opinions about the appropriateness of limiting debate when we are considering judicial and executive branch nominations. Regardless of our past disagreements on that issue, we are united in our determination to preserve the ability of Members to engage in extended debate when bills are on the Senate floor. We are mindful of the unique role the Senate plays in the legislative process, and we are steadfastly committed to ensuring that this great American institution continues to serve as the world’s greatest deliberative body. Therefore, we are asking you to join us in opposing any effort to curtail the existing rights and prerogatives of Senators to engage in full, robust, and extended debate as we consider legislation before this body in the future. Sincerely, ###
04.07.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement following the confirmation of Neil Gorsuch as Supreme Court Associate Justice: “Neil Gorsuch has proven to be a fair, independent-minded judge with impeccable qualifications, which is why he has received such broad bipartisan praise from so many respected legal experts. He will be an outstanding Supreme Court Justice.” ###
04.07.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Gary Peters (D-MI) led a bipartisan group of their Senate colleagues in a letter calling for increased funding to support the advancement of connected and automated vehicle (CAV) technologies. The letter specifically calls for Congress to appropriate funding for the safe development and testing of CAV technologies at U.S Department of Transportation (USDOT) federally-designated proving grounds. The letter was sent to Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee Chair Susan Collins (R-ME) and Ranking Member Jack Reed (D-RI). “The auto industry is in the midst of a seismic technological shift that will revolutionize the transportation of people and goods in our lifetime. Connected and self-driving cars can reduce dramatically the more than 35,000 lives lost on our roads and highways every year and fundamentally transform the way we get around,” wrote the Senators. “Connected and automated vehicles are going to be developed abroad if we do not take the lead in making sure these technologies are advanced right here in the United States,” the Senators continued. “Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now be given the resources to work quickly to ensure that testing and evaluation at these facilities can begin as soon as possible.” Connected and automated vehicle technologies have the potential to reduce traffic accidents, save thousands of lives lost on American roads each year, and ensure that the United States remains at the forefront of groundbreaking automotive innovation. Last year, the USDOT opened a competition to designate national testing facilities for advanced automotive technologies. In January, USDOT named ten facilities across the country as federally-designated proving grounds for the development of automated vehicles. Prior to these designations, there was no national testing facility in the United States for CAV technologies. The designees include: North Carolina Turnpike Authority American Center for Mobility (ACM) at Willow Run in Ypsilanti, MI City of Pittsburgh and the Thomas D. Larson Pennsylvania Transportation Institute Texas AV Proving Grounds Partnership U.S. Army Aberdeen Test Center in Aberdeen, MD Contra Costa Transportation Authority (CCTA) & GoMentum Station San Diego Association of Governments Iowa City Area Development Group University of Wisconsin-Madison Central Florida Automated Vehicle Partners The letter was also signed by U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), and Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). A copy of the letter is copied below. April 6, 2017 The Honorable Susan CollinsChairmanAppropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related AgenciesSenate Committee on Appropriations184 Dirksen Senate Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Jack ReedRanking MemberAppropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related AgenciesSenate Committee on Appropriations125 Hart Senate Office BuildingWashington, D.C. 20510 Dear Chairman Collins and Ranking Member Reed: As you prepare the Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18) Appropriations legislation, we write to express our strong support for the Department of Transportation’s (USDOT) efforts to advance connected and automated vehicle (CAV) technology. Specifically, we request the committee include robust funding to support the safe testing and deployment of CAV technologies at USDOT-designated proving grounds. The auto industry is in the midst of a seismic technological shift that will revolutionize the transportation of people and goods in our lifetime. Connected and self-driving cars can reduce dramatically the more than 35,000 lives lost on our roads and highways every year and to transform fundamentally the way we get around. Ensuring that American innovators can safely develop and implement this technology will not only save lives but also solidify our nation’s position as the world leader in the future of mobility. Connected and automated vehicles are going to be developed internationally if we do not take the lead in making sure these technologies are advanced right here in the United States. It is critical that the Federal government play a leadership role in ensuring that CAV technologies are safely developed and tested in a thorough and thoughtful manner, aligned with voluntary industry standards. USDOT, recognizing this urgent need, last year solicited proposals from facilities across the country to be designated as Automated Vehicle Proving Grounds. The intent was to form an initial network of proving grounds focused on the advancement of automated vehicle technology. After evaluating more than 60 applicants under a rigorous and detailed set of selection criteria, USDOT chose ten proving grounds with complementary features and capabilities. Together, those facilities collectively form a federal Community of Practice around the safe testing and deployment of CAV technologies. Identifying and selecting these initial proving grounds was a crucial first step, but USDOT must now be given the resources to work quickly to ensure that testing and evaluation at these facilities can begin as soon as possible. Technology in this area is changing rapidly, and only through thorough testing can we both encourage innovation and assure public confidence in these revolutionary technologies. We therefore urge that robust funding be appropriated in FY2018 to support these USDOT-designated proving grounds. USDOT should be directed to use such funds to support the development of these ten proving grounds and to promote the creation and sharing of best practices for the safe conduct of testing and operations, which will accelerate the pace of safe deployment. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and we look forward to working with you to advance the development and deployment of this revolutionary and life-saving technology. ###
04.06.2017	Tonight, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement following the U.S. military’s airstrikes in Syria: “Assad is a war criminal who has targeted and murdered his own people, including innocent children. President Trump decisively responded to Assad’s latest atrocity to help prevent future ones, sending a clear message that when the Syrian regime crosses the red line, America will respond. We owe a debt of gratitude to the brave men and women in uniform who carried out today’s mission and continue to keep our nation safe and secure.” ###
04.06.2017	This week, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) introduced The Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation to ensure that veterans, servicemembers, and surviving spouses and children of servicemembers who have died in the line of duty can take full advantage of their education benefits. “The Veterans Priority Enrollment Act will allow veterans, servicememembers, and their families to receive the education benefits that they deserve,” said Senator Tillis. “Expanding educational benefits for veterans has been a priority of mine since being elected, and I want to thank Senator Brown for his partnership in focusing on this important issue.” The Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2017 would extend priority enrollment for college courses to veterans, servicemembers, and eligible dependents who are utilizing GI education benefits. Expanding priority enrollment would allow servicemembers and veterans to plan their semesters so that they can finish their degrees before their benefits expire. ###
04.05.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) appeared on Fox News Channel to discuss the Democrats’ filibuster of Judge Neil Gorusch and the need for Republicans and Democrats to work together on bipartisan solutions in the Senate. Watch or download video of Senator Tillis’ interview.Tillis on why Judge Gorsuch should be confirmed to the Supreme Court:“We went through 20 hours of committee hearings and Neil Gorsuch’s qualifications on the bench and resume overall are impeccable. Democrats are trying to create shiny objects and red herrings to get us off the path of getting him confirmed but he will be confirmed.” Tillis on using the nuclear option for legislation in the future:“What we want to do is tamp down any notion that there is broad support for doing the same thing for legislation. I think the 60 vote threshold is what makes the U.S. Senate different than any other institution so we need to give people confidence we are not going down that path.” Tillis on the need for the Senate to end the partisanship and produce bipartisan results:“I have had a lot of discussions with Democrat members over the last week or two trying to get the behavior of the Senate back to a bipartisan feel as we move forward of healthcare and a number of other things we need to get done.” ###
04.04.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) congratulated the University of North Carolina Tar Heels men’s basketball team for defeating the Gonzaga Bulldogs to win the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I Championship: “Congratulations to the Tar Heels for overcoming the heartbreak of last year’s final and bringing the national championship back to North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “This championship cements Roy Williams’ status as one of the greatest college basketball coaches of all time, following in the footsteps of the legendary Dean Smith.” ###
03.31.2017	U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Angus King (I-ME) have introduced the Save our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act of 2017, bipartisan legislation that makes substantive reforms aimed to help seasonal employers better navigate the H-2B temporary non-agricultural visa program. Original co-sponsors include Senators Mark Warner (D-VA), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Cornyn (R-TX), Susan Collins (R-ME), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and John Thune (R-SD). The H-2B program is vital to small and seasonal employers across the country who depend on temporary workers to sustain their businesses and supplement their existing American workforce. This bipartisan legislation would streamline the program to eliminate ambiguities and establish clear parameters for employers hiring H-2B workers, require increased coordination between federal agencies, and bring transparency to the program operations for greater efficiency while ensuring American workers are not displaced. The Small and Seasonal Businesses Act would also increase certainty for businesses, allowing seasonal employers to better prepare for fluctuations in demand. The legislation includes a “returning worker exemption” provision, which allows workers who have previously worked in the U.S. through the H-2B visa program to not count against the visa cap. There was no returning worker exemption in FY2017, which has caused hardship for seasonal small businesses that were not able to fill their workforce demands. “Across North Carolina and the country, seasonal employers have been unfairly facing bureaucratic barriers through the H-2B program, to the point where they are not even sure if they can continue to stay in business,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation will not only help alleviate the stress and frustrations our business owners face within the H-2B program, but will continue to place a priority on both the American workforce and our local economies.” “Small businesses across Maine often rely on seasonal workers to help them operate, especially during the busy summer months. But today, bureaucratic failures within the H-2B program are standing in the way of our businesses succeeding or even keeping their doors open. If this is not fixed, it could have very serious consequences for Maine’s economy,” Senator King said. “Our legislation will help ensure that employers across Maine and the nation will be able to hire the workers they need to stay in business and continue contributing to the local economy, while also maintaining important protections that put the American workforce first.” “Improving the H-2B program, while still ensuring that Americans get first crack at ‎jobs, not only keeps Virginia’s seafood companies in business, it helps boost the local economies on the Bay and protects American workers – from watermen to crab pickers to truck drivers – who rely on a thriving Virginia seafood industry," Senator Warner said. “This bill makes measured reforms to the H-2B program that will help establish clear parameters for employers hiring H-2B workers, encourage better coordination among federal agencies, and improve transparency.” “Last year, Maine welcomed nearly 36 million visitors who had a combined economic impact of approximately $9 billion, and those numbers are continuing to grow. Many Maine small businesses, particularly in the tourism and hospitality industries, rely on seasonal workers to supplement local employees during peak seasons and keep up with this increasing demand,” said Senator Collins. “By streamlining the application process and codifying the returning worker exemption, which has been vital to Maine’s seasonal businesses, our legislation will help protect American workers and allow Maine’s small businesses to thrive.” “Seasonal employees are a critical component of South Dakota’s robust tourist industry, which is largely comprised of small businesses,” said Senator Thune. “The temporary, supplemental workforce provided by the H-2B visa program is essential for businesses that employ domestic workers, yet simply cannot fill all their job openings with local employees. Given our state’s low unemployment rate, these workers, especially those seeking to return, would play an important role in our economy.” “The South Dakota tourist and construction industries depend on the H-2B visa program to sustain their businesses during their busy seasons,” said Senator Rounds. “We have already reached the cap of H-2B for fiscal year 2017, and many of these businesses are in jeopardy of losing business or laying off workers because they are unable to fulfill their obligations. While we continue to search for an immediate fix to this problem, our legislation would make substantial, long-term reforms to the H-2B visa program, providing more flexibility, more transparency and more certainty for businesses who rely on these temporary, seasonal workers.” Important Facts About The H-2B Visa Program H-2B workers support American jobs and small businesses. Every H-2B worker creates or sustains 4.64 American jobs on average according to a study conducted by the American Enterprise Institute. As required by law, employers must first make a concerted effort to hire American workers to fill open positions. H-2B visas fill needs for American small businesses when there are not enough able and willing American workers to fill the temporary, seasonal positions. Employers often have to spend more money to hire temporary H-2B workers, who are paid a prevailing wage that is set by the U.S. Department of Labor. ###
03.30.2017	Last night, the Senate passed the Weather Research and Forecasting Innovation Act of 2017 which includes a provision instructing the National Weather Service (NWS) to identify solutions for improving inadequate weather radar covering the Charlotte area and other parts of the country. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the legislation earlier this month. Representative Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. Last December, the Senate passed a similar bill unanimously. “This is a step in the right direction,” said Senator Burr. “When it comes to dangerous tornadoes, accurate weather forecasting is critical to ensuring the safety of citizens. I’m glad my colleagues recognize the importance of providing the tools that cities like Charlotte need to prepare for potential disasters.” “I want to thank my Senate colleagues for passing this legislation that is important to the safety of citizens in the Charlotte metropolitan region and across the country who live without quality radar coverage,” said Senator Tillis. “We must give all Americans more accurate warning when severe weather is approaching, and I hope this legislation will pass the House and head to the President’s desk to become law in a timely manner.” Charlotte is currently covered by a NWS Doppler radar that is 94 miles away in Greer, SC. However, no other city of Charlotte’s size currently has a radar situated more than 58 miles away. The current location results in a majority of the metropolitan area being without radar beam coverage below 10,000 feet. Due to the circumference of the earth the further a radar is away from a given point, the higher the radar beam scans the atmosphere, leading to lower resolutions and an inability to detect the low-level dynamics of severe weather. Rowan, Cabarrus, and Davidson Counties have an even more pronounced problem with limited radar coverage because of the location of the radar. Local meteorologists believe that the lack of quality radar coverage has made it difficult for the NWS office in Spartanburg to detect severe weather, specifically tornadoes. These meteorologists who understand the intricacies of weather in the Piedmont believe that the lack of a NWS Doppler radar in Charlotte contributed to the lack of a warning for a tornado that affected Mecklenburg, Rowan, and Cabarrus Counties in March of 2012 that damaged 192 homes. The failure was not the fault of the NWS, as it can be very difficult to detect rotation in the thunderstorms that tend to effect North Carolina; however, the lack of a Doppler radar for the Piedmont enhances the problem. This legislation will give the NWS, local and state officials, and news outlets the tools they need to protect our citizens. Letters from three area meteorologists are available here: WGHP, WCNC and WBTV
03.30.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, attended a confirmation hearing for Secretary of the Air Force Nominee Dr. Heather Wilson and expressed his support for her confirmation. Watch or download video of Senator Tillis at the hearing. “We currently have the smallest Air Force in our nation’s modern history with a shortage of more than 1,000 pilots and only 4 out of over 50 Air Force squadrons that are fully qualified,” said Senator Tillis. “We are at a time when we need strong leadership in the Air Force and I appreciate Dr. Wilson taking on the important task and I look forward to supporting her nomination.” ###
03.30.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, attended a hearing on the state of Alzheimer’s disease and questioned witness Maria Shriver on ways to better support caregivers and the need to find a cure for Alzheimer’s. Watch or download Senator Tillis at the hearing. “We have to think about other ways for funding and ways to be more productive with the funding we are producing,” said Senator Tillis. “I think combatting Alzheimer’s represents an opportunity for Republicans and Democrats to come together and look at some of the hurdles; whether its research, the regulatory environment, or authorization for new therapies and find ways to remove barriers to get more productivity and a faster path to treatments and a cure.” Since being elected in 2014, Senator Tillis has been a tireless advocate for finding a cure for Alzheimer’s and supporting caregivers. Earlier this year, Senator Tillis joined a bipartisan group of Senators to send a letter to President Trump urging greater investment in Alzheimer’s research. ###
03.30.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the North Carolina General Assembly voted to repeal House Bill 2 (HB2): “North Carolina's brand and continued economic prosperity should not be beholden to the loudest voices on either the far-left or the far-right who don't have our state's best interests in mind. I'm glad that state lawmakers were able to reach a commonsense compromise to repeal HB2.” ###
03.29.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Chris Coons (D-DE), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), and Gary Peters (D-MI) to introduce the bipartisan Save our Seas (SOS) Act to help address the marine debris epidemic affecting America’s ocean shorelines and inland waterways, as well as other coasts across the globe. Intact marine debris from foreign countries travel great distances and pose problems for nations who are not responsible for the mismanagement of the source country’s solid waste. The Save our Seas (SOS) Act works to address three critical areas: Allows the NOAA Administrator to declare severe marine debris events and authorize funds to assist with cleanup and response. The Governor of the affected state may request the NOAA Administrator make this declaration. Reauthorizes NOAA’s Marine Debris Program through FY2022. Its mission is to conduct research on the source of marine debris and take action to prevent and clean up marine debris. Encourages the Executive Branch – led by the U.S. State Department – to engage with the leaders of nations responsible for the majority of marine debris, examining the causes of ocean debris, effective prevention and mitigation strategies, and the economic benefits for treaty nations in addressing the crisis. “North Carolina is a state blessed with hundreds of miles of coastline along the Atlantic Ocean and marine debris threatens our coastal communities and small businesses,” said Senator Tillis. “I am thankful to Senators Sullivan and Whitehouse for leading the bipartisan effort to provide the Executive Branch with additional tools to fight this problem. If we do not give agencies like NOAA the abilities to fulfill their missions, we are wasting taxpayer dollars and missing opportunities to fix solvable issues.” ###
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON – Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Richard Burr (R-NC), Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) introduced The Janey Ensminger Act of 2017, which requires the Veterans Administration (VA) to provide medical care for all diseases that can be scientifically linked to exposure to toxic chemicals at Camp Lejeune. The legislation also requires that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal agency within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, review all relevant scientific literature every three years to determine if sufficient or modest causal links have been found between toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune and additional diseases and conditions. This will ensure that veterans and their families will not have to wait to get medical care as researchers learn more about the long-term health consequences of the toxins found in the water at Camp Lejeune. The legislation is named for Janey Ensminger, the daughter of Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger, who was born on base at Camp Lejeune and died as a result of exposure to toxic chemicals. “The Veterans Administration continues to deny clear scientific links between debilitating diseases and exposure to certain toxic chemicals in the drinking water at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Burr. “The Janey Ensminger Act requires the VA to do the right thing and give veterans the medical care they need. The military negligently poisoned these service members and they shouldn’t have to fight the VA every time that government researchers find a link between a disease and the toxins that were in their drinking water.” “We have a responsibility to care for those who have served our country and their families,” Senator Nelson said. “The VA should be giving any veteran who was stationed at Camp Lejeune and now battling one of these scientifically-linked illnesses the benefit of the doubt.” “Veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune deserve prompt medical care,” said Senator Rubio. “For far too long, those stationed at Camp Lejeune and suffering from various cancers and diseases have been uncertain about their coverage. This is completely unacceptable. I am proud to stand on the side of veterans and support legislation that ensures those affected at Camp Lejeune get the care they need.” “While progress has been made to ensure that veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune receive the benefits they have long deserved, some victims are still not receiving the care to which they are entitled because the VA has refused to accept the most up to date scientific data and research available,” said Sen. Tillis. “The Janey Ensminger Act of 2017 prioritizes science over politics and trusts the federal government’s scientific experts outside of the VA with decisions about medical coverage to ensure that every veteran who might have been affected at Camp Lejeune gets the care they need and deserve.” “The VA is neither staffed nor equipped to evaluate veterans for toxic exposures or to make legitimate decisions concerning their benefits,” said Jerry Ensminger. “If we are to believe that our elected leaders are truly sincere about fiscal responsibility and cutting wasteful spending, they will support and vote yes on this bill. “We have government agencies which were created and mandated by Congress to evaluate exposures to toxic substances and the health effects they cause. The American taxpayers pay to staff and maintain those agencies through their federal taxes. For one reason or another, the VA and other departments of our federal government choose not to utilize those agencies. They prefer to contract non-governmental entities to acquire their evaluations regarding toxic exposures, which means the taxpayers are paying double. This bill will stop some of that wasteful spending.” Master Sergeant Ensminger has been a tireless advocate for members of the military and their families that were harmed by toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune. In September 2015, Ensminger testified before the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. WATCH: Ensminger: Janey is but one example of the multitude of tragedies suffered by former Camp Lejeune families who were exposed by this negligence. In August of 2012, President Obama signed the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 bill into law. This law, authored by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. However, the VA has resisted providing health care benefits to many of these veterans and their family members because it has not recognized the scientific links between the exposure to toxins and certain diseases that have been found by government researchers at the ATSDR. Earlier this month, the Department of Veteran’s Affairs began granting compensation to veterans suffering from illnesses caused by contaminated water at Camp Lejeune. Veterans who served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days or more from 1953 to 1987 and are suffering from a service-connected illness are now eligible to receive disability compensation. Text of the Janey Ensminger Act of 2017 is available here. A one pager on the legislation is available here.
03.22.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced bipartisan legislation to help servicemembers save on travel expenses. Each month, members of the National Guard travel to complete their required duty training, and they typically pay for travel out of their own pocket. Currently, members can only claim their mileage and other travel expenses on their taxes if they had to travel more than 100 miles from their residence for training or if travel expenses exceeded two percent of a soldier’s adjusted gross income. The Savings for Servicemembers Act would reduce the travel minimum to 50 miles, aligning treatment of the National Guard and Reservists with federal workers who have a 50 mile minimum for travel compensation, and help reduce the cost of service to those in the Guard and Reserves. “12,000 citizen soldiers fill the ranks of the North Carolina Army and Air National Guard,” Senator Tillis said. “In 2001, the first Army attack helicopter units to take the fight to al-Qaeda in Afghanistan were the soldiers of the 130th Aviation Regiment from Morrisville. Our military heritage is long and proud, and many of our Guardsmen travel hundreds of miles to serve. This legislation helps level the playing field and removes a fundamental unfairness from the system.” “In Minnesota, 30 percent of all National Guard members travel more than 50 miles for training. Our servicemembers shouldn’t be burdened with costly travel expenses simply for completing their required duty training each month,” Senator Klobuchar said. “Our bipartisan legislation will help reduce the cost of service and make a big difference for thousands of soldiers in the Minnesota National Guard.” This legislation is supported by the National Guard Association of the United States. Original cosponsors of the legislation are Senators Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Ed Markey (D-MA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). ###
03.20.2017	TILLIS: “The nominee before us today is not President Trump. The nominee before us today is not Leader McConnell, and it’s not Judge Merrick Garland; it’s one of the most extraordinarily talented and capable people that we could possibly have going to the Supreme Court. So I hope that this nomination hearing focuses on the one person before us who will go on, I believe, to fill the Supreme Court.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – During today’s Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, Senator Tillis spoke in favor of Judge Gorsuch’s impressive qualifications and track record of being a mainstream and independent-minded jurist. Watch Senator Tillis’ opening statement. ###
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON—Yesterday, US Senators Bill Cassidy, MD (R-LA), Thom Tillis (R-NC) and John Kennedy (R-LA) introduced the Unleashing American Energy Act of 2017. After 8 years of significant restrictions on energy exploration and development, American workers and industry are eager to pursue American energy independence. This legislation empowers the Secretary of the Interior to add additional lease sales to an existing 5-year leasing plan, allowing for more American energy investments that would pay dividends for decades to come. President Trump pledged to add millions of American jobs and make America energy dominant. The Unleashing American Energy Act of 2017 would provide his administration the flexibility to do just that. “This legislation creates better paying energy jobs with better benefits for working families,” said Dr. Cassidy. “It unleashes domestic energy production which creates these jobs, generates revenue to balance our budget, and increases America’s energy independence.” “This legislation is an important first step to cutting several layers of bureaucratic red tape that will allow for the responsible exploration of offshore energy,” said Senator Tillis. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pursue a national energy policy that will put America on the path to energy independence and help lower utility bills for hardworking families in North Carolina." “The energy sector is the lifeblood of the American and Louisiana economies,” said Senator Kennedy. “The restrictions that have been placed on our energy sector from the previous administration have stunted our economy and cost us thousands of good paying jobs. This bill will provide more job opportunities for hardworking Americans and will help our country realize our goal of energy independence.” To read the full legislative text, click here. Background: Our nation’s offshore areas hold at least 480 Trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 101 Billion barrels of oil. Currently only 6% of the Outer Continental Shelf is available for energy production. The former administration reversed plans to offer lease sales in the Atlantic and additional lease areas off of Alaska, which cost American jobs and denied potentially billions of dollars of investment in the U.S economy. A Quest Offshore Resources report projects that development in the Atlantic alone could create 279,562 jobs and trigger $194 billion of investments by 2035. The arrival of the new administration has many in the offshore economy optimistic about the future. However, the administration faces a long process to create a new 5-year leasing plan, which typically takes 24-36 months to finalize. Americans should not need to wait to develop our own resources and delay job and economic growth. The Unleashing American Energy Act of 2017 seeks to remedy this issue by empowering the Secretary of the Interior to add additional lease sales to an existing 5-year plan. What this legislation achieves: Permits the Secretary of the Interior to add additional Outer Continental Shelf oil and gas lease sales to an existing 5-year plan Allows for new acreage to be made available years earlier than current process would allow Allows the Secretary to reverse the former administrations shortsighted decisions to remove Artic and Atlantic lease sales from the current 5-year plan Stimulate thousands of good paying jobs along with billions of dollars of investment Adds billions of revenue for federal, state and local governments Ensures continued considerations for: state preferences, environmental sensitivity, industry interest, fisheries, marine navigation and national energy markets. For more info, click here. ###
03.15.2017	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), John McCain (R-AZ), and Jack Reed (D-RI) introduced bipartisan legislation to provide 2,500 more visas for the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program, which allows Afghans, including interpreters, who supported the U.S. mission in Afghanistan and face threats as a result of their service, to apply for refuge in the United States. The senators introduced their bill after the U.S. Embassy in Kabul officially stopped scheduling interviews for applicants seeking a visa through the Afghan SIV program. Last year, Senators Tillis, Shaheen, McCain, and Reed led efforts in the Senate to extend this vital national security program. “Many brave Afghans have risked their lives in order to support American troops and their efforts to defeat terrorists,” said Senator Tillis. “In return, America has a moral obligation to provide these Afghans with safety from the Taliban who seek to harm them and their families for assisting America’s mission in Afghanistan. Falling short of this obligation would signal to the world that America is willing to turn its back on friends who stood with our nation, a grave mistake we cannot afford to make. I’m proud to join Senators McCain, Shaheen, and Reed in this bipartisan effort.” “It’s imperative that Congress act quickly to approve more visas,” said Senator Shaheen. “This is a matter of life and death for interpreters and other support staff. As we speak, many of them are being hunted down by the Taliban and other terrorists. We have a moral obligation to protect the thousands of Afghans who put themselves, and their families, at risk to help our soldiers and diplomats. To abandon them now would be a stain on our nation’s honor. There’s no excuse for Congress to not act in a bipartisan way to approve these additional visas as it has done in the past.” “Last month, General John Nicholson, commander of U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that after more than a decade-and-a-half of conflict, the war in Afghanistan is in a stalemate,” said Senator McCain. “We simply cannot win this war without the assistance of the Afghan people who put their lives on the line to help American troops and diplomats serving in harm’s way. Unfortunately in recent years, Congress has reneged on the promise we made to protect these brave individuals by failing to authorize the appropriate number of Special Immigrant Visas for Afghan translators and interpreters. It’s because of our failure that the lives of thousands of Afghans are in imminent danger from the Taliban. This legislation would ensure the continuation of this vital Special Immigrant Visa program, and send a clear message that America will not turn its back on those — who at great personal risk — stand with us in the fight against terror.” “This legislation strengthens and upholds our commitment to those who have risked their lives to further U.S. interests,” said Senator Reed. “Afghanistan is, and must remain, a key pillar of our long-term global counterterrorism strategy, and to that end it is critical that we continue to foster strong ties with our allies on the ground. When Afghan citizens put their lives on the line to assist U.S. efforts, we must honor our commitment to those individuals. This bill furthers American strategic interests in the region and upholds our promises to these brave men and women.” ###
03.14.2017	Today, a Department of Veteran’s Affairs rule granting compensation to veterans suffering from illnesses caused by contaminated water at Camp Lejeune went into effect. Veterans who served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days or more from 1953 to 1987 and are suffering from a service connected illness are now eligible to receive disability compensation. “It has been a long fight for these veterans to get the compensation they deserve,” said Senator Richard Burr (R-NC). “I want to thank Jerry Ensminger for his work on behalf of the Lejeune veterans and their families. These men and women sacrificed for our nation and have earned this care and support. I encourage all veterans who may be eligible for compensation to contact my office for assistance making a claim.” “I am thankful the day has finally come that veterans affected by contaminated water at Camp Lejeune begin receiving compensation,” said Senator Tillis (R-NC). “This overdue justice is a result of persistence and hard-work by a number of people, and I would like to specifically thank Senator Burr and Jerry Ensminger for tirelessly advocating on behalf of the victims. As always, any veteran who has a problem receiving their compensation from the VA should contact my office.” The rule will provide compensation for veterans that served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days (consecutive or nonconsecutive) or more from 1953 to 1987. Service members suffering from the following eight diseases automatically qualify for compensation: Kidney cancer Liver cancer Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma Adult leukemia Multiple myeloma Parkinson’s disease Aplastic anemia and other myelodysplastic syndromes Bladder cancer The VA estimates that more than 900,000 service members could have been exposed to toxic water. Senator Burr has worked tirelessly to secure the medical care and compensation for veterans affected by toxic water at Camp Lejeune. In 2015, the VA granted disability status to victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water. The federal rule is available online here. ###
03.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During today’s Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) questioned General Robert Neller, Commandant of the Marine Corps, about misconduct on the “Marines United” website. Senator Tillis also advocated for punishing the perpetrators to the fullest extent of the law to prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future. Watch video of Senator Tillis questioning General Neller about the “Marines United” website. After today’s hearing, Senator Tillis issued the following statement: “The ‘Marines United’ website scandal is an absolute disgrace, and all perpetrators must be punished to the fullest extent of the law. After hearing from General Neller today, I have confidence that the Marine Corps will take swift and appropriate action to seek justice for those who have been victimized. It’s important to stress that the reprehensible conduct of some is not a reflection of the vast majority of Marines who serve and defend our nation with honor and distinction.” ###
03.13.2017	Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of Senators, including the leadership of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee (SVAC), to send a letter to Secretary of Veterans Affairs David Shulkin in response to a troubling Inspector General report earlier this month on veteran wait times. Though the IG report did not find intentional misreporting, it did find that across the Mid-Atlantic Healthcare Network (VISN 6) actual wait times were drastically different than what has been reported by VA medical facilities. VISN 6 includes locations in Asheville, Durham, Fayetteville, and Salisbury. The Senators called on Secretary Shulkin and the VA to provide additional information on how VA facilities record and report wait time data, how they schedule appointments, and how the VA plans to ensure timely access to quality care for North Carolina’s rapidly growing veteran population. “Veterans in this VISN, and across the country, deserve to be seen more quickly than VISN 6 has achieved, and Congress, veterans, and the American public must be able to trust that the wait time information being provided by VA is accurate. That we, once again, cannot trust VA data is more than disappointing,” the Senators wrote. The letter was also signed by U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Warner (D-VA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Jon Tester (D-MT). The text of the Senators’ letter is available below: Secretary Shulkin, We read with significant concern the results of the recent Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (OIG) audit on access to healthcare in Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) 6. These findings indicate that due to Veterans Health Administration (VHA) staff continuing to record inaccurate wait time data, veterans are waiting for care significantly longer than is being reported by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and in many cases, being denied the opportunity to seek care in the community through the Veterans Choice Program. Additionally, facility staff are not consistently entering data that is necessary for leadership at the facility, VISN, and central office level to make decisions about staffing in VA facilities. Ultimately, these failures hamper Congress’ ability to provide VHA with appropriate resources. The OIG also found that policies to audit schedulers, ensuring they were complying with policy in the best interest of veterans, were simply ignored. Veterans in this VISN, and across the country, deserve to be seen more quickly than VISN 6 has achieved, and Congress, veterans, and the American public must be able to trust that the wait time information being provided by VA is accurate. That we, once again, cannot trust VA data is more than disappointing. Secretary Shulkin, as you signed off on the action plan to address the IG’s recommendations, we know you are anxious to ensure that the challenges identified in this audit are met promptly. We appreciate that new scheduling and consult directives were released last year, and that many of the recommendations offered by OIG will be changes implemented nationwide, but we also urge you to take the following additional actions: Despite the various directives and handbook updates, this audit makes it clear that there is an inconsistent understanding among front line staff of the appropriate process to take when scheduling veterans. We ask you to commit to nationwide retraining of schedulers, virtual or in-person, by the end of this fiscal year, which would be over a year after the publication of VHA’s most recent outpatient scheduling and consult directives. Additionally, please explain how scheduling staff and supervisors were trained on the directives when they were released last year and whether any VHA employees have been held accountable for failing to follow these directives. As a result of the finding in a January 2017 OIG report, Review of the Implementation of the Veterans Choice Program, as well as this VISN 6 report, indicating that it takes medical facility staff an average of 42 days to provide authorization to the Third Party Administrator to begin the Choice process, we ask that you initiate an analysis of this front-end process. This timeline is unacceptable. Please indicate what provisions in your Response for Proposals for a new community care network are responsive to lessons VHA has learned during the course of the Choice Program with respect to scheduling processes. The OIG found that facilities did not consistently conduct scheduler audits, and so we ask you to require that an individual at each VISN is responsible for ensuring that the required scheduling audits are completed as prescribed. Further, we ask you to identify an individual or a team at the VISN level who will complete these audits quarterly, to ensure that audits are impartially completed by people outside the scheduler’s and scheduling supervisor’s direct chain of command. The audit showed that VISN 6 medical facilities did not consistently provide timely access to health care for new patients. How is VHA ensuring that adequate care capacity will be available to meet the increasing needs of Veterans in high growth areas? Are there adequate resources to meet the specific needs of subpopulations like women veterans? VA had a goal that by December of 2016, every VA medical center would be able to provide same day access. Given this concerning audit, do you have confidence that facilities in VISN 6 are meeting this goal, and what data can you share to validate? Finally, VA stakeholders rely on the wait times information that is published regularly by VA. It appears, based on this audit, that incorrect information is being published without validation. We urge you to complete a thorough review of these channels of communication, and opportunities for accountability for incorrect information being passed between VISNs and facilities, and between VHA Central Office and VISNs. We appreciate your prompt response and attention to these important matters. ###
03.09.2017	A bipartisan group of Senators, led by Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, is expressing the need to protect and encourage whistleblowers who shine light on fraud, waste and mismanagement in government. In a letter today to 18 federal agencies, 11 members of the Whistleblower Protection Caucus are calling on government leaders to promote a culture that welcomes whistleblower disclosures and condemns attacks on whistleblower rights. “All Americans are better off when whistleblowers step forward and report misconduct without fear of retaliation. Consistent with your statutory responsibilities, we ask that you remind employees at your agency about their ability to make protected disclosures in accordance with whistleblower protection laws. We also ask that you remind all incoming employees and managers that retaliation against whistleblowers will not be tolerated,” the senators said in the letter. Dating back to the nation’s earliest days, whistleblowers have played a valuable role in identifying flaws in government. However, they often face reprisal from within their own ranks for calling attention to waste, fraud and mismanagement. In the letter today, the senators reference policies protecting employees who disclose problems in government, either through their chain of command or to Congress. The senators also call on agency leaders to remind employees of procedures for making protected disclosures as well as protections in place to prevent and respond to retaliation. Joining Grassley on the letter are senators Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.) and Tom Carper (D-Del.). The cosigners are all members of the Senate Whistleblower Protection Caucus. The caucus raises awareness of the need for adequate protections against retaliation for private sector and government employees who call attention to wrongdoing. The caucus’ mission is to foster bipartisan discussion on legislative issues affecting the treatment of whistleblowers and serve as a clearinghouse for current information on whistleblower developments as well as best practices for responding to whistleblower disclosures and claims of retaliation. The letters were sent to the following agencies: U.S. Department of AgricultureU.S. Department of CommerceU.S. Department of EducationU.S. Department of EnergyU.S. Environmental Protection AgencyU.S. Department of Health and Human ServicesU.S. Department of Housing and Urban DevelopmentU.S. Department of JusticeU.S. Department of LaborU.S. Small Business AdministrationU.S. Department of StateU.S. Department of the TreasuryU.S. Department of Veterans AffairsOffice of the United States Trade RepresentativeU.S. Office of Management and BudgetU.S. Department of Homeland Security Full text of the letter follow: March 09, 2017Dear [Agency Leader]: Whistleblowers play a vital role in helping the government identify and resolve issues of waste, fraud, and abuse, and they are crucial for Congress in the exercise of its constitutionally mandated oversight responsibilities. Since the beginning days of our nation, our Founding Fathers recognized that whistleblowers are essential to ensuring that government is functioning properly and efficiently. As early as July 30, 1778, “in demonstration of their full support for whistleblowers,” the Continental Congress unanimously approved legislation recognizing “the duty of all persons in the service of the United States” to inform “Congress or other proper authorit[ies]” of wrongdoing.[1] Today, we continue to recognize this important responsibility. President George H. W. Bush, in his October 17, 1990 Executive Order 12731, stated plainly that federal employees “shall disclose waste, fraud, abuse, and corruption to appropriate authorities.”[2] As members of the Senate Whistleblower Protection Caucus, we enthusiastically echo these historical precedents in our support for individuals who shine a light on waste, fraud, and abuse. We believe that it is in your agency’s best interest, and the taxpayers’ best interest, to do the same, and to openly recognize and wholeheartedly support the duty and value of whistleblowers. Whistleblowers are assets, and they can help us enhance government efficiency and transparency and save taxpayers billions of dollars. To encourage these individuals to bring problems to the surface so that they may be addressed, Congress enacted and has since strengthened federal laws that protect them from reprisal for lawful, good faith disclosures of potential wrongdoing. It is a prohibited personnel practice to retaliate against an employee for “any disclosure of information . . . which the employee or applicant reasonably believes evidences (i) any violation of any law, rule, or regulation, or (ii) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety.”[3] Protections from reprisal also extend to employees of contractors, subcontractors, grantees, and subgrantees.[4] These statutes protect whistleblowers who report wrongdoing internally to a supervisor—as a significant majority do—so that their management has an opportunity to address it. They also protect whistleblowers who choose to report outside of their chain of command due to real fears of reprisal by their management. In either case, these brave men and women perform an invaluable public service. That service is equally valuable and necessary when whistleblowers disclose waste, fraud, and abuse to Congress. Congress relies on these individuals working within agencies to provide the information necessary “to give effect to the checks and balances that are essential to the separation of powers.”[5] Accordingly, title 5, Section 7211 provides that the right of federal employees to furnish information to committees of Congress may not be interfered with or denied.[6] Officials or employees who do interfere with that right are not entitled to compensation.[7] Despite these protections, whistleblowers still often face intimidation, retaliation, and prohibited personnel practices. Therefore it is essential that agency leadership, from the top down, promotes an open culture for employees to make disclosures and takes swift action against any employee who violates a whistleblower’s rights. All Americans are better off when whistleblowers step forward and report misconduct without fear of retaliation. Consistent with your statutory responsibilities, we ask that you remind employees at your agency about their ability to make protected disclosures in accordance with whistleblower protection laws.[8] We also ask that you remind all incoming employees and managers that retaliation against whistleblowers will not be tolerated. Over the past several years the members of the Senate Whistleblower Protection Caucus have endeavored to increase protections for whistleblowers and bring awareness to issues of retaliation. We will continue this work in the current Congress and will continue oversight of the executive branch’s implementation and enforcement of whistleblower protections. We appreciate your assistance and look forward to working with you. Sincerely, [1] S. Res. 522, 114th Cong. (2016) (enacted) (citing legislation of July 30, 1778, reprinted in Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774–1789, ed. Worthington C. Ford, et al. (Washington, D.C., 1904–37), 11:732). The 2016 Whistleblower Appreciation Day resolution was sponsored by the Senate Whistleblower Protection Caucus. [2] Exec. Order No. 12,731, 3 C.F.R. 306 (1990) (emphasis added). [3] 5 U.S.C. § 2302(b)(8)(A)(i)–(ii) (2012) (emphasis added); id. § 2302(b)(9) (protecting employees who, among other things, exercise any right granted by law, rule, or regulation or who cooperate with an Inspector General or the Office of Special Counsel); and id. § 2302(b)(13) (requiring any non-disclosure agreement to contain a clear exception for lawful whistleblowing); Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, Pub. L. No. 114-113, div. E, title VII, 129 Stat. 2485, § 744 (2015). Employees of the Intelligence Community also are protected under a separate regime pursuant to Presidential Policy Directive 19, the Intelligence Authorization Act of 2014, and the Intelligence Community Whistleblower Protection Act. Presidential Policy Directive 19, Protecting Whistleblowers with Access to Classified Information (Oct. 10, 2012); Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, Pub. L. No. 113-126, §§ 601–04, 128 Stat. 1390, 1414–22 (2014); Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999, Pub. L. No. 105-272, §§ 701–02, 112 Stat. 2397, 2413–17 (1998). Employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation are protected under 5 U.S.C. § 2303 which now also explicitly clarifies that the statute protects disclosures to supervisors, the Office of Special Counsel, and Congress. Federal Bureau of Investigation Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2016, Pub. L. No. 114-302, 130 Stat. 1516 (2016). [4] 41 U.S.C. app. § 4712 (2016); 10 U.S.C. § 2409 (2012). [5] Brief for Members of Congress as Amici Curiae Supporting Respondent, Dep’t of Homeland Sec. v. MacLean, No. 13-894, 2014 WL 4925075, at *7 (U.S. Sept. 29, 2014). [6] 5 U.S.C. § 7211 (2012) (“The right of employees, individually or collectively, to petition Congress or a Member of Congress, or to furnish information to either House of Congress, or to a committee or Member thereof, may not be interfered with or denied.”) [7] Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, Pub. L. No. 114-113, div. E, title VII, 129 Stat. 2475, § 713, (2015); Letter from Susan A. Poling, Gen. Counsel, U.S. Gov’t Accountability Office to Charles E. Grassley, Chairman, S. Comm. on the Judiciary, Jason Chaffetz, Chairman, H. Comm. on Oversight and Gov’t Reform, and Bob Goodlatte, H. Comm. on the Judiciary re: GAO Op. B-325124 (Apr. 5, 2016) (available at http://www.gao.gov/assets/680/676341.pdf). [8] 5 U.S.C. § 2302(c) (2012) (“The head of each agency shall be responsible for the prevention of prohibited personnel practices, for the compliance with and enforcement of applicable civil service laws, rules, and regulations, and other aspects of personnel management, and for ensuring (in consultation with the Office of Special Counsel) that agency employees are informed of the rights and remedies available to them under this chapter and chapter 12 of this title, including how to make a lawful disclosure of information that is specifically required by law or Executive order to be kept classified in the interest of national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs to the Special Counsel, the Inspector General of an agency, Congress, or other agency employee designated to receive such disclosures.”).
03.08.2017	Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) joined all their Senate colleagues in urging the Trump Administration to take action in response to the recent anonymous bomb threats made against Jewish Community Centers (JCC’s), Jewish Day Schools, and Synagogues. In the bipartisan letter sent to Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and FBI Director James Comey, the Senators stressed the importance of these centers within their communities, and offered suggestions for deterring the threats of violence. According to the Jewish Federations of North America, in the first two months of 2017 alone, at least 98 incidents against JCCs and Jewish Day Schools at 81 locations in 33 states, including North Carolina, have been reported. Charlotte’s Shalom Park, the Jewish Community Center in Asheville, and a Jewish Day School in Durham have all been evacuated in recent weeks due to threats. “These cowardly acts aim to create an atmosphere of fear and disrupt the important programs and services offered by JCCs to everyone in the communities they serve, including in our states,” wrote the Senators in the letter. “We are concerned that the number of incidents is accelerating and failure to address and deter these threats will place innocent people at risk and threaten the financial viability of JCCs, many of which are institutions in their communities.” “We encourage you to communicate with individual JCCs, the JCC Association of North America, Jewish Day Schools, Synagogues and other Jewish community institutions regarding victim assistance, grant opportunities or other federal assistance that may be available to enhance security measures and improve preparedness,” continued the Senators. “We also recognize the anti-Semitic sentiment behind this spate of threats and encourage your Departments to continue to inform state and local law enforcement organizations of their obligations under the Hate Crime Statistics Act and other federal laws.” The text of the Senators’ letter is available below and here: Dear Secretary Kelly, Attorney General Sessions, and Director Comey: We write to underscore the need for swift action with regard to the deeply troubling series of anonymous bomb threats made against Jewish Community Centers (JCCs), Jewish Day Schools, Synagogues and other buildings affiliated with Jewish organizations or institutions across the country. We thank you for your recent efforts and ask that you inform us of the actions that your Departments plan to take to address threats against these and other religious institutions. We stand ready to work with you to ensure that these centers can continue to serve their communities free from violence and intimidation. It has become clear that threats of violence against individual JCCs are not isolated incidents. According to the Jewish Federations of North America, in the first two months of 2017 alone, at least 98 incidents against JCCs and Jewish Day Schools at 81 locations in 33 states have been reported. These cowardly acts aim to create an atmosphere of fear and disrupt the important programs and services offered by JCCs to everyone in the communities they serve, including in our states. In addition to reports of incidents at JCCs and Jewish Day Schools, there have been incidents at cemeteries in both St. Louis and Philadelphia involving the desecration of Jewish headstones. This is completely unacceptable and un-American. We are concerned that the number of incidents is accelerating and failure to address and deter these threats will place innocent people at risk and threaten the financial viability of JCCs, many of which are institutions in their communities. Your Departments can provide crucial assistance by helping JCCs, Jewish Day Schools and Synagogues improve their physical security, deterring threats from being made, and investigating and prosecuting those making these threats or who may seek to act on these threats in the future. We encourage you to communicate with individual JCCs, the JCC Association of North America, Jewish Day Schools, Synagogues and other Jewish community institutions regarding victim assistance, grant opportunities or other federal assistance that may be available to enhance security measures and improve preparedness. We also recognize the anti-Semitic sentiment behind this spate of threats and encourage your Departments to continue to inform state and local law enforcement organizations of their obligations under the Hate Crime Statistics Act and other federal laws. We are ready to work with you to address this pressing issue, and we look forward to your responses about the actions you intend to take to address, deter, and prevent this threat. ###
03.08.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Thom Tillis (R-NC) reintroduced legislation to identify solutions for areas across the country that lack sufficient severe weather detection. Representative Robert Pittenger (R-NC) introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. This legislation would direct the National Weather Service (NWS) to study areas of the country, including the Charlotte metropolitan area, with inadequate weather radar and develop a plan to improve radar coverage. Last December, the Senate passed the similar legislation unanimously. “We have made a lot of progress on this issue, but the weather radar covering the Charlotte area is still dangerously deficient.” said Senator Burr. “I’m hopeful we can pass this legislation again in the Senate and I look forward to working with Representative Pittenger to get it passed in the House.” “We know big storms and wildfires can have a serious impact on our lives and communities,” said Senator Cantwell. “Unlike Western Washington, there is a large Doppler radar gap just east of the Cascades. Okanogan, Chelan, Douglas, Grant, Kittitas and Yakima Counties have areas lacking critical Doppler radar coverage. Better weather forecasting means first responders can better protect human life and property. This bill is the first step toward filling the gaps in weather radar that leave areas, like central Washington, with blind spots.” “This legislation to study areas of the country with inadequate severe weather detection, including the Charlotte metropolitan region, is important to the safety of citizens across the country who live without quality radar coverage,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senator Burr and Representative Pittenger for their tireless work to solve this problem that directly affects thousands of North Carolinians, and I urge the House and Senate to swiftly pass this bill so we can give all Americans more accurate warning when severe weather is approaching.” “The National Weather Service has repeatedly missed signs of developing tornadoes, or issued inaccurate warnings, due to the lack of adequate radar coverage in Charlotte,” said Representative Pittenger. “Fortunately, we have not yet suffered fatalities, but we shouldn’t wait for tragedy to act. Far too many lives are at risk for a problem the federal government can easily address, as Charlotte is the largest metropolitan region in the country without local Doppler radar. ###
03.08.2017	Last week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) participated in an immigration roundtable hosted by the Bipartisan Policy Center where he highlighted his immigration reform framework and the potential path forward. Watch the roundtable discussion by clicking here. Senator Tillis on past attempts to reform the immigration system:“I think it’s kind to say that we haven’t made much progress on immigration reform over the last 30 years. I characterize it differently; I think it has been a consistent series of failures. It has been a failure of leadership, it has been a failure of discipline, it has been a failure of focus, it has been a failure on execution. We need to look at doing it differently. We need to step away from the ‘swing for the fences, strike out’ approaches of the past. That’s why we haven’t gotten this done.” Senator Tillis also on how a number of immigration reform elements may be packaged in the series of bills:“We’ve created a framework that is really trying to think about the logical groupings of different measures that we could put into bills and start working on getting the votes on both sides of the aisle to get it done. I think about DACA with border security, I’m optimistic that you can get support. Think about work visas with E-Verify and other enforcement actions against employers who are knowingly executing employment practices that are disadvantageous to American workers.” Senator Tillis was joined at the roundtable by former Governor of Mississippi Haley Barbour, former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry Cisneros, and Former Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff. ###
03.07.2017	Today, Senator Tillis issued the following statement on Congress’ efforts to repeal Obamacare and reform the nation’s broken health care system: “I look forward to closely reviewing the House plan to reform our nation’s health care system. I have long said that any replacement must be an improvement over Obamacare, which has caused too many Americans to struggle with skyrocketing premiums and fewer choices. Reform must be aimed at improving health care outcomes for hardworking Americans by controlling costs and providing access to affordable care without the burden of costly mandates. “We cannot allow partisan politics to consume the health care policy debate. Even Obamacare’s strongest supporters will acknowledge that Obamacare is on an unsustainable course, and major corrective action needs to be taken. My Republican colleagues would be making a mistake if they become content with failing to produce the perfect at the expense of achieving good, practical solutions to reform our nation’s broken health care system.” VIDEO: Watch or download video of Senator Tillis discussing the efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare. ###
03.06.2017	Bipartisan Group Of 32 Senators Calls On DHS To Conduct An Audit To Determine The Number Of Unused Visas That American Small Businesses Depend On WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Mark Warner (D-VA) and a bipartisan group of 30 other senators sent a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly, outlining concerns that the H-2B visa statutory cap will be reached soon. The Senators requested the Department of Homeland Security to conduct an audit to determine the number of unused visas during the first half of the fiscal year, and also requested that any unused visas be provided to eligible businesses that have been unable to secure an adequate number of workers due to the cap. The H-2B temporary non-agricultural visa program is vital to small and seasonal employers across the country who depend on temporary workers to sustain their businesses and supplement their existing American workforce. The letter was also signed by Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Ron Wyden (D-OR), John Cornyn (R-TX), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Chris Coons (D-DE), John Barrasso (R-WY), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tom Carper (D-DE), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Patty Murray (D-WA), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Angus King (I-ME), Tim Scott (R-SC), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Richard Burr (R-NC), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), James Lankford (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Bob Casey (D-PA). “In recent weeks, numerous businesses across the United States have contacted our offices expressing concern that the H-2B statutory cap will be reached soon, jeopardizing their small businesses and their American workers,” the Senators wrote. “As a result, small and seasonal businesses across the country, such as seafood processors and other critical hospitality and service businesses that are vital to the local economies in our states, will likely be locked out of a necessary program that they rely on during their busiest seasons. Failure to access these critical workers will harm small businesses, American workers, and the economy.” “In 2015, after previously announcing that the statutory cap had been reached, USCIS determined that more than 5,000 unused visas were available,” the Senators continued. “Soon thereafter, the agency began accepting applications from businesses still hoping to hire workers through the program. With that in mind, we respectfully request that your office conduct an immediate audit of the number of unused visas from the first half of the fiscal year and project the likely usage rate for the second half of the fiscal year….As with prior practice, any unused visas should be provided to eligible businesses that have been unable to secure an adequate number of workers due to the cap.” The full text of the senators’ letter is below: March 6, 2017 The Honorable John Kelly Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Kelly: In recent weeks, numerous businesses across the United States have contacted our offices expressing concern that the H-2B statutory cap will be reached soon, jeopardizing their small businesses and their American workers. The 33,000 cap for the first half of the fiscal year was reached on January 10, 2017, and newly released Department of Labor (DOL) processing statistics suggest that many employers with a date of need for labor later than April 1, 2017, could be capped out of the program this year. As a result, small and seasonal businesses across the country, such as seafood processors and other critical hospitality and service businesses that are vital to the local economies in our states, will likely be locked out of a necessary program that they rely on during their busiest seasons. Failure to access these critical workers will harm small businesses, American workers, and the economy. The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) is charged with administering the H-2B program and ensuring that all of the 66,000 annual visas are made available to seasonal businesses. We understand that when USCIS deems the cap to be reached, it accounts for a certain number of withdrawals, denials, and revocations. It is very important, however, that as soon as it has information on the actual number of visas issued, USCIS immediately makes any unused visas available to seasonal businesses. Because the repercussions of being capped out of the H-2B program are so severe for seasonal businesses, their American workers, and the U.S. economy, we request prompt answers to the following questions: What is the formula you are using to determine when the 33,000 cap is reached? What steps are you taking to ensure that you do not stop adjudicating petitions for H-2B visas prematurely and to ensure that the full 33,000 visas will be made available for each half of the fiscal year? If you find that the full 33,000 visas were not actually issued during the first half of fiscal year 2017, what process will you use to make sure those visas are made available as soon as possible for the second half of the fiscal year? In the event that additional visas are released, will you allow employers affected by the cap to use their original approved labor certification when re-submitting a petition, provided the request is submitted before the end date specified in the labor petition? In 2015, after previously announcing that the statutory cap had been reached, USCIS determined that more than 5,000 unused visas were available. Soon thereafter, the agency began accepting applications from businesses still hoping to hire workers through the program. With that in mind, we respectfully request that your office conduct an immediate audit of the number of unused visas from the first half of the fiscal year and project the likely usage rate for the second half of the fiscal year. Please also report the methodology for conducting the audit, as well as the methodology and raw data used to determine when the cap has been reached. As with prior practice, any unused visas should be provided to eligible businesses that have been unable to secure an adequate number of workers due to the cap. We thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter, as the viability of many businesses in our state depends on the H-2B program. We look forward to an ongoing dialogue with you and the Department about possible regulatory improvements to the H-2B program that can increase processing efficiency and predictability. Sincerely, ###
03.03.2017	Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) reacted to a troubling report by the Veteran’s Affairs Inspector General that found multiple VA medical facilities in North Carolina are not keeping adequate or consistent records on veterans’ wait times and failing to provide veterans with timely care. “It is absolutely unacceptable that the scheduling system does not provide accurate information about wait times,” said Senator Burr. “A significant percentage of veterans are still waiting more than 30 days for necessary health care appointments. Furthermore, the VA has failed to identify and assist 90 percent of the veterans who, due to wait times, are eligible to use the Choice program to receive care outside of the VA system. This shameful incompetence caused some veterans to wait more than 80 days for an appointment. I expect Secretary Shulkin to use the power that Congress has given him to hold employees accountable and get the results that our veterans demand.” “Today’s report confirms that veterans continue to face unacceptable wait times to receive care at the VA, and it also reveals major issues plaguing the VA Choice Program that must be addressed,” said Senator Tillis. “I will continue working with my colleagues on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee to implement reforms that improve the timely delivery of community care for veterans and pursue legislation that will require VA to fully implement a consistent and transparent way of tracking wait times at VA facilities. Until all VA facilities track wait times in a uniform manner, Congress is limited in its ability to conduct meaningful oversight.” Troubling findings from the report include: An estimated 36 percent of the appointments for new patients had wait times longer than 30 days, with an average wait time of 59 days. These numbers are significantly higher than the wait time data the electronic scheduling system showed. Medical facilities failed to consistently enter correct clinically indicated or supported preferred appointment dates when scheduling appointments. Staff did not identify an estimated 13,800 of these 15,300 appointments or 90 percent of the veterans who should have been eligible for the Choice program. Medical facility staff did not ensure that veterans authorized to participate in the Choice program received care within 30 days as required by VA contracts. An estimated 82 percent of the appointments for veterans who receive care through Choice during the relevant time period had wait times longer than 30 days. The full report is available online here. ###
03.01.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, chaired a joint House and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing to welcome the American Legion members visiting Washington, D.C. to give their legislative presentation. Senator Tillis was filling in for Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA), who recently had back surgery and is recovering at his home in Georgia. Download video of Senator Tillis at the VA hearing. Watch video of Senator Tillis at the VA hearing. “We are focused on making healthcare more available to veterans through care in both the private and public sector in the VA,” said Senator Tillis. “We do not want to privatize the VA, but instead empower the VA, and we look forward to working collaboratively with the American Legion and all of the stakeholders so together we can solve the problems plaguing the VA.” Since being elected to the U.S. Senate in 2014, Tillis has made helping veterans a top priority. In the 115th Congress, Senator Tillis has introduced the bipartisan BRAVE Act that would support job creation for America’s veterans as well as the Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act that would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. During his first two years as a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Tillis worked across the aisle and with the VA Secretary to implement the MyVA Breakthrough Priorities and advance proposals to reform the VA, expand education and job opportunities for veterans, and had several of his bipartisan proposals signed into law. ###
02.28.2017	Tonight, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following video statement following President Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress. Senator Tillis stressed the need for Republicans and Democrats to work together to address the major challenges facing the nation. Download Senator Tillis’ video response by clicking here. Text of Senator Tillis’ response: Tonight, the President addressed the nation and outlined an ambitious policy agenda. It includes overhauling our antiquated tax and regulatory codes, reforming our health care system to make health care more affordable, and fulfilling our commitments to our brave veterans. Regardless of where you stand on President Trump and his policy proposals, I hope you agree that continued gridlock and bitter partisanship in Washington will keep our great nation from reaching its full potential. Whether you’re a Republican, Democrat or Independent, far more unites us than divides us. We all want our children to inherit an America that is stronger, safer and more prosperous. We all want to see our fellow Americans have access to affordable health care and a quality education. We all want to see America continue to serve as the beacon for freedom and opportunity for the rest of the world. The American people sent a very clear message last November that they’re tired of politics as usual. That want to see results coming out of Washington, and those results will require bipartisanship, and at times compromise. I’m committed to working on the proposals put forward by the President and moving forward with bipartisan solutions. Whether it’s modernizing’s our nation’s infrastructure, reforming our criminal justice system, or securing the border and finally fixing our broken immigration system, there is tremendous potential to pursue bipartisan policies that will benefit our nation. I’ll be doing my part to ensure that happens. I’ll also be making my voice heard when my colleagues on both sides—including members of my own party—become roadblocks to the results the American people want to see. Thank you so much, and may God bless North Carolina and United States of America. ###
02.28.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, attended a committee hearing to discuss how to improve outcomes for youth in the Juvenile Justice System. Senator Tillis has been a longtime champion for bipartisan reforms to the juvenile justice system and juvenile delinquency as both a U.S. Senator and North Carolina House Speaker. Click HERE to download video of Senator Tillis’ statements during today’s hearing. “I am hopeful this committee will make progress on juvenile justice and delinquency prevention because I’ve seen the direct result of that progress in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “We passed a human trafficking bill that provided safe harbor for minors that would have otherwise been charged with prostitution and removed a valid defense as consent. We also passed the Justice Reinvestment Act where we reduced recidivism, probation violations, and got people into productive places, and hopefully this session we also pass the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Reauthorization Act. I hope this in this Congress we can move forward with these common sense reforms, which should not be ideologically polarizing.” In the Senate, Tillis co-sponsored the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2015, legislation that calls for greater screening and referral of juveniles who may have been sex trafficking victims or who suffer from mental or substance abuse problems and the use of specialized, problem-solving courts as well as faith- or community-based alternatives for nonviolent juveniles. The legislation also seeks to improve the treatment of juveniles in the justice system, e.g., by discouraging the shackling of juveniles who give birth in detention. In 2011, as North Carolina Speaker of the House, Tillis spearheaded the passage of the Justice Reinvestment Act, sweeping criminal justice reform legislation. Since its passage, North Carolina has decreased the juvenile crime rate for the six consecutive years at a faster rate than almost any other state in the nation – with the exception of Connecticut. ###
02.27.2017	Today, the White House announced that Ray Starling, Chief of Staff for Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), will be leaving the Senator’s office to serve as Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture, Trade, and Food Assistance. “We will greatly miss Ray’s tremendous leadership, his warm sense of humor, and his genuine passion for working on behalf of all North Carolinians, but the silver lining is that our state’s loss is America’s gain,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “There is simply no one better qualified than Ray to advise the President on agriculture and trade policy. Ray has been a lifelong champion for North Carolina’s agricultural industry, and he will now play a major role in fulfilling the administration’s plans to support our nation’s farmers and ranchers and revitalize rural America. This is an incredible honor for Ray that is more than well deserved, and it’s also a testament to how respected North Carolina's agricultural community is across the nation. I wish Ray and his family all the best in this new and exciting chapter, and I look forward to working closely with him to advocate for our state’s agricultural and rural communities.” “I’m glad we are going to have a North Carolinian working on agriculture policy in the White House,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Ray Starling has a deep understanding of the agriculture industry and I know he will work to promote policies that will help our nation’s economy thrive.” Today, Senator Tillis also announced that his State Director Jordan Shaw will serve as his interim Chief of Staff. Starling, who most recently served as Senator Tillis’ Chief of Staff, has also served as Senator Tillis’ Chief Counsel, and was then-Speaker Tillis’ General Counsel and Agriculture Advisor in the N.C. General Assembly. He has also been the General Counsel for the N.C. Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, has private practice experience from several years at Hunton & Williams, served as a law clerk on the N.C. Supreme Court, and has taught numerous agricultural and food law university courses. After growing up on a Century Family Farm in Autryville, North Carolina, Starling received a B.S. in Agricultural Education from N.C. State University and a J.D. from UNC-Chapel Hill. ###
02.16.2017	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Richard Burr (R-NC), and leaders of the Senate Foreign Relations and House Foreign Affairs Committees sent a letter signed by 78 members of Congress to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan seeking the unconditional release of American pastor Andrew Brunson, who has been unjustly detained in Turkey since October and denied regular and appropriate access to legal counsel and American consular services. Pastor Andrew Brunson is a Presbyterian pastor from Black Mountain, North Carolina, and has dedicated 23 years to Christian missionary work in Turkey until he applied for residency and was arrested. Other members of Congress who signed the letter include: Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), John Boozman (R-AZ), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Bob Corker (R-TN), Shelly Moore Capito (R-WV), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), James M. Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Tim Kaine (D-VA), James Lankford (R-OK), Mike Lee (R-UT), Joe Manchin III (D-WV), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Rand Paul (R-KY), David Perdue (R-GA), Rob Portman (R-OH), James E. Risch (R-ID), Marco Rubio (R-FL), John Thune (R-SD), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Mark R. Warner (D-VA), Roger F. Wicker (R-MS), and Todd Young (R-IN); and Representatives Robert B. Aderholt (R-AL), Brian Babin (R-TX), Gus M. Bilirakis (R-FL), Mike Bost (R-IL), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Ted Budd (R-NC), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Gerry E. Connolly (D-VA), Jeff Duncan (R-SC), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), Garret Graves (R-LA), Bill Flores (R-TX), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Thomas A. Garrett Jr. (R-VA), George Holding (R-NC), Richard Hudson (R-NC), Randy Hultgren (R-IL), Walter B. Jones (R-NC), David P. Joyce (R-OH), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Tom Marino (R-PA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Patrick T. McHenry (R-NC), Mark Meadows (R-NC), Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Ted Poe (R-TX), David E. Price (D-NC), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Peter J. Roskam (R-IL), Steve Russell (R-OK), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), David G. Valadao (R-CA), Tim Walberg (R-MI), Ted Yoho (R-FL), and Lee Zeldin (R-NY). Text of the letter is included below: February 16, 2017 Dear President Erdogan, We write to request that Mr. Andrew Brunson, an American citizen who has been unjustly detained in Turkey, be immediately released and deported. Mr. Brunson has worked peacefully in Turkey since 1993. There appears to be no evidence to substantiate the charges against him for membership in an armed terrorist organization. Moreover, your government has repeatedly denied regular and appropriate access to legal counsel and American consular services. Mr. Brunson's imprisonment has been raised repeatedly by U.S. Government officials with officials of the Government of Turkey. Unfortunately, high-level efforts to secure Mr. Brunson's release have been unsuccessful. We have closely followed developments with this case, and are deeply disappointed. The United States and Turkey have benefited from a close partnership for decades, and we hope to be in a position to continue strengthening these ties. Now is the time for our countries to reaffirm respect for fundamental freedoms and the rule of law while reasserting our shared commitment to addressing security challenges through partnerships and cooperation. In this spirit of partnership, we respectfully ask you to consider Mr. Brunson's case and how the recent treatment of Mr. Brunson places significant strain not only on him and his family, but also on the robust bilateral relationship between the United States and Turkey. We appeal to you to inquire as to the options for promptly deporting Mr. Brunson and to act on them expeditiously. Sincerely, ###
02.16.2017	Earlier this week, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Joe Manchin (D-WV) introduced the Probation Officer Protection Act of 2017—a bill that will protect probation officers and enhance their ability to do their job by giving them authority to arrest a third party who forcibly interferes with an officer’s performance of his or her official duties. “Probation officers play a critical role in our criminal justice system by promoting public safety and working with offenders to manage risks and reduce recidivism ,” said Senator Tillis. “Our probation officers also need the ability to protect themselves, and this bipartisan legislation will give them the necessary authority to arrest individuals who threaten their safety or interfere with their job performance that is so crucial to the safety of our communities.” “This commonsense, bipartisan legislation helps to ensure that federal probation officers have the proper tools and authority necessary to protect themselves from hostile individuals who may attempt to harm them or otherwise interfere while they perform their important work,” Senator Hatch said. “This bill also supports our men and women in law enforcement by freeing up precious time and resources for the local police, who will no longer need to accompany and provide backup for probation officers. Because many states already grant state probation officers authority to arrest third parties who forcibly interfere with an officer’s performance of his or her official duties, it only makes sense to give federal probation officers the same authority.” “Probation officers are often placed in compromising situations when they search properties for contraband,” Senator Feinstein said. “Friends and relatives of individuals on probation may threaten violence or block them from conducting their search. This has happened several times in California. Our bill addresses this problem by allowing probation officers to arrest individuals who try to stop them from doing their jobs.” “Our law enforcement officers throughout West Virginia and across the country go above and beyond to protect our communities. Our probation officers need the authority to do their jobs, and I am proud to be an original cosponsor on this bill that will ensure they are able to protect the communities they serve and make us all safer,” said Senator Manchin. Statements of Support Honorable Ricardo S. Martinez, Chair, Committee on Criminal Law, Judicial Conference of the United States: “As Chair of the Committee on Criminal Law of the Judicial Conference of the United States, which oversees the federal probation system, I am writing to express our support for the Probation Officer Protection Act, which would give probation officers the authority to temporarily direct, and if necessary to arrest, a person who is obstructing the officer while performing their official duties. This limited authority would allow probation officers to do their job safely and effectively. We greatly appreciate your leadership and support for this modest but much-needed reform.” Craig F. Penet, President, Federal Probation and Pretrial Officers Association: “Without the appropriate tools to confront and address hostile and aggressive third parties, U.S. Probation Officers are left with little choice but to abandon searches — potentially allowing evidence/contraband to remain in the community. FPPOA strongly urges Congress to act on this bill as a necessary policy reform that will have a significant impact on officer safety.” Nathan Catura, National President, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association: “I am writing on behalf of the more than 27,000 members of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association to advise you of our strong support for legislation you intend to reintroduce entitled the “Probation Officer Protection Act.” Thank you for your continued leadership on this important officer safety issue.” “As the volume of approved searches they must conduct has markedly increased over the past year, the absence of any authority to restrain or direct the movements of third parties places Probation Officers at a greater and unnecessary risk of physical harm. That is why the 'Probation Officer Protection Act' is so important.” Background Under current law, a federal probation officer may arrest a probationer or individual on supervised release if the officer has probable cause to believe that the offender has violated a condition of his or her probation or release. See 18 U.S.C. § 3606. The officer may make the arrest with or without a warrant. In practice, formal arrests by probation officers are rare. Rather, probation officers use this authority to lawfully engage in less restrictive uses of force, such as ordering an offender to stand aside during a search; instructing an offender not to interfere with the officer’s movements; or, in rare cases, temporarily restraining an offender who poses a physical danger. Current law does not, however, address a probation officer’s arrest authority in situations where a third party attempts to physically obstruct the officer or cause the officer physical harm. Although obstructing a probation officer in the performance of his or her official duties is illegal, when a probation officer encounters an uncooperative or violent third party, the officer may be forced to retreat because he or she lacks authority to restrain the third party. This lack of authority and resulting need to retreat exposes probation officers to greater risk of harm and allows the third party—along with any evidence or individual the third party is attempting to shield—to elude capture. As a result, evidence that an offender has violated a condition of his or her probation or supervised release, or evidence of other criminal activity, may be lost. In some circumstances, a probation officer may be able to enlist the assistance of local police in responding to a hostile third party. But this is not, in and of itself, an adequate solution. First, unless the probation officer knows in advance that he or she is likely to encounter a hostile third party and can find an available police officer to accompany him or her, the probation officer must wait for police backup to arrive. This is often not a viable option. Second, even if a local police officer is available to accompany the probation officer, because the probation officer lacks arrest authority, he or she cannot lawfully assist the police officer if the police officer is accosted. Third, requiring federal probation officers to rely on local law enforcement in responding to uncooperative or violent third parties burdens local police departments and diverts police resources from other uses. ###
02.15.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) introduced the Boosting Rates of American Veterans Employment (BRAVE) Act, bipartisan legislation that would support job creation for America’s veterans. Click here to download video of Senator Tillis discussing the BRAVE Act. “I’m proud to join Senator Baldwin to introduce bipartisan legislation that supports businesses who employ and back our veterans,” said Senator Tillis. “The men and women who served in our military bring tremendous leadership capabilities and work ethic to the private sector, and the BRAVE Act is a major win for both veterans and employers who hire them.” “America’s veterans have bravely served our nation and we have a shared responsibility to make sure their service and sacrifice is honored,” said Senator Baldwin. “The BRAVE Act is a bipartisan reform that can help reduce the unemployment rate for veterans and create jobs for them. I am proud to work across party lines with Senator Tillis and reward businesses that are putting our veterans to work.” The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) establishes long-term contracts with private businesses for medical equipment, supplies, services and more. Currently, the VA gives preference for these contracts to veteran-owned small businesses, however it does not give preference to businesses that actively employ veterans. The BRAVE Act would change that and allow the VA to consider the proportion of veterans employed by a prospective contractor when awarding federal contracts. The VA Secretary would have the authority to give preference to businesses that employ veterans on a full-time basis, and the VA would determine the preference for a business based on their percentage of full-time veteran employees.‎ The bipartisan legislation would also encourage and incentivize VA contractors to employ veterans on a full-time basis. In addition, the Baldwin-Tillis legislation provides oversight of VA contractors and would allow for a 5-year debarment from contracting for those who knowingly misrepresent their proportion of veteran employees. The BRAVE Act is supported by The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Military Order of the Purple Heart, The American Legion – Department of Wisconsin and the VFW – Department of Wisconsin. The BRAVE Act companion legislation (H.R. 974) led by Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-NY) and Rep. Paul Cook (R-CA) passed the House of Representatives last night. ###
02.15.2017	This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and a group of Senators delivered a letter to Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin that expresses grave concerns regarding continued aggression from the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), and urging him to execute the full extent of financial sanctions and targeted financial measures allowed under current law. The letter was also signed by Sens. Ted Cruz (R-TX), Cory Gardner (R-GA), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Pat Toomey (R-PA), and David Perdue (R-GA). “As Kim Jung-un has exposed his willingness to increase ballistic missile testing with the ultimate goal of achieving nuclear breakout, the potential for this regime to attain a developed and capable intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) poses an imminent threat that cannot be ignored,” the senators wrote. “North Korea’s test of an intermediate-range ballistic missile this past weekend demonstrates advancement in fuel and launch technology, underscoring the necessity of faithfully executing the law to meet this growing threat.” The senators’ letter lists ten actions that, if fully enforced and implemented, could more effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency it uses to finance its illicit nuclear program. The full letter can be viewed below: February 14, 2017 The Honorable Steven MnuchinSecretary of the TreasuryDepartment of the Treasury1500 Pennsylvania Ave NWWashington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Mnuchin, We write to express grave concern over the continued aggression from the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea (DPRK), and urge you to execute the full extent of financial sanctions and targeted financial measures provided for under current law. As Kim Jung-un has exposed his willingness to increase ballistic missile testing with the ultimate goal of achieving nuclear breakout, the potential for this regime to attain a developed and capable intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) poses an imminent threat that cannot be ignored. North Korea’s test of an intermediate-range ballistic missile this past weekend demonstrates advancement in fuel and launch technology, underscoring the necessity of faithfully executing the law to meet this growing threat. For eight years U.S. policy toward curbing Pyongyang’s nuclear ambitions was “strategic patience”. As a result, the Obama administration hesitated to leverage the overwhelming and bipartisan support of a united Congress to bring meaningful economic pressure to bear on Kim Jong-un In return, North Korea evaded financial sanctions, established front companies for illicit dealings, and continued work on its ICBM and nuclear programs. Today, it is reported that Kim Jong-un may be able to strike the West Coast of the United States with nuclear weapons within four years, and that he may already be able to strike our allies in South Korea and Japan, where thousands of U.S. military personnel are stationed. The regime was able to evolve its nuclear program due to the Obama administration’s timidity to enforce rigorous oversight and effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency used to finance its illicit activity. In 2016, after years of failed policy, the U.S. quietly designated North Korea as a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern – a label which comes with strict regulations pursuant to the Financial Action Task Force, which has repeatedly warned banks around the world of the money laundering and proliferation risks posed by North Korea’s deceptive financial practices. However, having waited too long to meaningfully enforce this designation, North Korea had already firmly established a method to maintain access to the international banking system. Over the last decade several – but not all – North Korean banks were banned from conducting U.S. dollar transactions. North Korean banks nonetheless have evaded these sanctions by setting up front companies, shell companies, and a network of third-country agents to hide its beneficial ownership and control. They have also relied on Chinese banks and front companies with access to the U.S. financial system to maintain indirect access to the international banking system. Often, they conduct dollar transactions with Chinese trading companies, which in turn use their own accounts in Chinese banks, which use correspondent accounts in American banks to access the dollar system. In doing so, those front companies — and in some cases, the banks — knowingly violate U.S. law. The revelation from last summer that the Chinese trading company Dandong Hongxiang Industrial Development Ltd. was responsible for over $500 million in trade with North Korea was stunning, but this may be just the tip of the iceberg. Other companies, such as Chinpo Shipping and 88 Queensway, have also facilitated trade and commerce that help bankroll North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs. Although the Treasury Department sanctioned Dandong Hongxiang and its corporate officers, freezing the assets of a handful of entities is a far cry from what is necessary: a determined, sustained, and well-resourced campaign to investigate, uncover, and sanction the complex web of similar Chinese, Middle Eastern, and other third-country companies and banks that fund Kim Jong-un’s regime, facilitate proliferation, and break sanctions. All necessary legal tools are in place to begin conducting such a campaign in earnest, today. Any bank that processes dollar transactions through U.S.-based correspondent accounts are legally obligated by the Treasury Department’s Know-Your-Customer regulations and UN sanctions resolutions to conduct due diligence investigations into any company with possible links to North Korea. Yet in many cases, Chinese banks, including the Bank of China, have disregarded their obligations to enforce U.N. sanctions on North Korea and have ignored their Know-Your-Customer obligations, thus facilitating North Korean proliferation. Regrettably, when the Justice Department indicted Dandong Hongxiang, it also announced that “[t]here are no allegations of wrongdoing by the U.S. correspondent banks or foreign banks that maintain these accounts.” It is difficult to construe this inaction as anything less than a lack of political will. Indeed, Treasury officials under the Obama administration were forced to admit in a Senate hearing four months ago that they had not sanctioned a single Chinese bank, despite the evidence of Chinese banks’ role in sanctions violations. This is disturbing, considering the historical success of squeezing the North Korean regime by targeting third-party banks found to be complicit in money laundering. In 2005, the US declared Macau-based Banco Delta a “money laundering concern,” which, accompanied by sub rosa meetings by US officials throughout Asia, started a global ripple effect that caused banks around the world to freeze and close North Korean accounts. As former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Terrorist Financing and Financial Crimes Daniel L. Glaser reported shortly thereafter: “Press reports indicate that some two dozen financial institutions across the globe have voluntarily cut back or terminated their business with North Korea, notably including institutions in China, Japan, Vietnam, Mongolia, and Singapore. The result of these voluntary actions is that it is becoming very difficult for the Kim Jong-Il regime to benefit from its criminal conduct.” Secretary Lew designated North Korea as a jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern on his way out the door, having waited too long to meaningfully enforce it. With the risks of proliferation and war now at a critical stage, we have no more time to waste on inaction. At the outset of this new administration, therefore, we call your attention to a series of actions that, if fully enforced and implemented, could more effectively cut off North Korea’s access to the hard currency is uses to finance its illicit nuclear program: 1. Add any remaining North Korean banks to the list of Specially Designated Nationals, thus completing the cutoff of North Korean banks from the international financial system. 2. Ensure that the Treasury Department has sufficient funds, personnel, resources, and legal authorities to expose North Korea’s money laundering network and its Chinese enablers at the earliest possible date. Then, in accordance with the NKSPEA, either add their names to the list of Specially Designated Nationals and freeze their assets, assess appropriate civil and criminal penalties, or both. 3. Enact additional Patriot Act section 311 special measures against North Korea, including Special Measure 2, which would require banks operating within U.S. jurisdiction “to maintain records, file reports, or both, concerning the aggregate amount of transactions, or concerning each transaction,” with respect to any North Korean property, interests in property, or funds. This measure would leverage the knowledge of the financial industry and begin the laborious process of mapping the web of front companies, shell companies, and agents that sustain Kim Jong-un’s regime. 4. Work with the State Department to investigate whether North Korea merits re-designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism. 5. Revise or replace the outdated North Korea Sanctions Regulations at 31 CFR Part 510 to impose comprehensive transactions licensing requirements on transactions involving North Korea, similar to those that previously applied to Iran, Burma, and Cuba. 6. Clarify to the financial industry worldwide that in the future, the Department of Treasury will strictly enforce Know-Your-Customer obligations, and requirements to file Suspicious Activity Reports and Currency Transactions reports, with respect to any North Korean nationals, entities, agents, or assets. Enforcement of these regulations could yield a windfall of financial intelligence necessary to find and block those North Korean assets. 7. In conjunction with the Attorney General at the earliest time possible, initiate an investigation into the Bank of China and the 12 Chinese banks involved in the Dandong Hongxiang case for possible violations of U.S. laws or financial regulations for their North Korea-related transactions. 8. Take strong enforcement action against any banks that continue to unlawfully provide direct or indirect correspondent banking services to North Korean banks. 9. In conjunction with the Secretary of State, ask European Union and Belgian authorities to ensure that North Korean banks are denied access to specialized financial messaging services, such as the SWIFT network, in accordance with their obligations under U.N. Security Council resolutions. 10. Continue targeting and freezing the financial assets of any Chinese entity pursuant to the NKSPEA and Executive Order 13722, which prohibit any property or interests within the United States from importing coal from North Korea. The strict and swift enforcement of our laws may be your last chance to protect the American people from Kim Jong-un’s nuclear blackmail and prevent another Korean War. Time is of the essence. Please let us know if you require additional authorities or resources to counter this growing threat and keep our nation safe. Sincerely, Ted CruzUnited States Senator Cory GardnerUnited States Senator Marco RubioUnited States Senator Thom TillisUnited States Senator Pat ToomeyUnited States Senator David PerdueUnited States Senator ###
02.14.2017	Tillis Emphasizes The Need To Improve Childcare & Employment Opportunities for Servicemembers and Military Families WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee’s Subcommittee on Personnel, held a hearing to receive testimony on the Department of Defense single servicemember and military family readiness programs. Quality of life issues are vital to the sustainment of the health of the all-volunteer force, as the stressors that servicemembers and military families face are much different than those faced by other citizens. Senator Tillis questioned military leaders about the need to improve childcare services for military families, as well as military initiatives to expand employment opportunities for military spouses. Watch Senator Tillis’ remarks by clicking here. For the duration of his time in the Senate, Senator Tillis has been an advocate for military families and spouses, securing an amendment in the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that ended the two-year time limit for military spouses who move from base to base and intend to keep federal employment on an installation. Senator Tillis has also worked closely with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), the ranking member of the Subcommittee on Personnel, to ensure that military families have access to autism care for their children. Witnesses Panel 1: Sergeant Major of the Army Daniel A. Dailey, USA Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy Steven S. Giordano, USN Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps Ronald L. Green, USMC Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force James A. Cody, USAF Panel 2: Ms. Stephanie Barna Acting Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs Ms. Kathy Roth-Douquet Chief Executive Officer Blue Star Families Ms. Joyce W. Raezer Executive Director National Military Family Association ###
02.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, met with Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch yesterday in the Senator’s office in Washington, D.C. “I just completed a very productive meeting with Judge Gorsuch, who is going to make a great Supreme Court justice. I agree with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle: he has impressive credentials, academically, on the bench, and as a litigator. We look forward to having him confirmed as the ninth Supreme Court justice very soon.” ###
02.09.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement following the confirmation of Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General: “I’ve had the pleasure of serving alongside Jeff Sessions on the Senate Judiciary Committee for the last two years, and I’m proud to call him my friend and colleague. I’ve seen his commitment to justice and the rule of law first-hand. As Attorney General, he will be dedicated to enforcing the laws Congress creates and addressing the accountability issues that have plagued the Department of Justice for far too long.” ###
02.07.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced bipartisan legislation to help veterans who have been exposed to toxic burn pits. The Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to better understand the health effects associated with burn pits and treat veterans who become sick after exposure. Last year, Klobuchar testified before the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee to discuss the need to dedicate staff and resources to exposure diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions stemming from exposure to burn pits. “Many of our brave men and women in uniform were exposed to harmful substances from toxic burn pits in Iraq and Afghanistan, and we have an obligation to care for them,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan bill is the beginning of that commitment, providing resources to the VA to study the health effects caused by the burn pits and to provide treatment to veterans who became sick after exposure. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure our veterans have the care they need and deserve.” “With an increasing number of our brave men and women returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan citing illnesses potentially caused by burn pits exposure, it’s clear that we can’t afford to wait,” said Senator Klobuchar. “Our bipartisan bill ‎helps to move us in the right direction by dedicating staff and resources to address the health conditions related to the exposure of burn pits. We need to do right by our veterans and ensure they receive the care and support they need.” The burning of waste on military bases exposed many servicemembers to a variety of potentially harmful substances. Plastic, aerosol cans, electronic equipment, human waste, tires, and batteries were thrown into open pits, often doused with jet fuel, and set on fire. As a result, many deployed soldiers were exposed to smoke from these open-air burn pits. Health effects from exposure to chemicals found in burn pits may include cancer, neurological effects, reproductive effects, respiratory toxicity, and cardiovascular toxicity. Troops who have worked in these areas are subject to higher rates of asthma, emphysema, and rare lung disorders.Original co-sponsors of this legislation include Senators Mike Rounds (R-SD), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Al Franken (D-MN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). Tillis and Klobuchar also introduced this legislation in the last Congress. ###
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and a bipartisan group of senators sent a letter to President Trump, calling for greater investment in Alzheimer’s research. Alzheimer’s research funding remains disproportionately low compared to its human and economic toll. Experts have stated $2 billion per year in federal funding is required to meet the goal of preventing or effectively treating Alzheimer’s by 2025. In a letter to the president, Klobuchar, Collins, and a bipartisan group of senators urged increased investment in Alzheimer’s research in the fiscal year 2018 budget request and support for efforts to meet the research investment objective set forth in the National Plan. “If nothing is done to change the trajectory of Alzheimer’s, the number of Americans afflicted with the disease is expected to more than triple by 2050,” the senators wrote. “Already our nation’s costliest disease, Alzheimer’s is projected to cost our country more than $1 trillion by 2050.” The letter was also signed by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Ed Markey (D-MA), John Boozman (R-AR), Mark Warner (D-VA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), and Bob Casey (D-PA). Since arriving in the Senate in 2015, Senator Tillis has been a champion for increasing funding for Alzheimer’s research. Tillis was a strong supporter of the 21st Century Cures Act, bipartisan legislation that increases funding for Alzheimer’s and cancer research. Tillis, who was a caregiver for a close relative who had Alzheimer’s, has also been outspoken in calling for the need to provide family caregiver with greater support and resources. He has urged the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to evaluate the cost-saving opportunities associated with providing targeted Alzheimer’s disease support services to caregivers, particularly when it comes to delaying or reducing their use of institutional long-term care and other health-care services. The full text of the senators’ letter is below: Dear Mr. President: Alzheimer’s is a devastating disease that exacts a tremendous personal and economic toll on the individual, the family, and our society. In addition to the human suffering it causes, Alzheimer’s is our nation’s most expensive disease, costing the United States more than $236 billion a year, including $160 billion in costs to Medicare and Medicaid. These costs will skyrocket as the baby boom generation ages. Alzheimer’s is also one of our nation’s leading causes of death, with recent data revealing that each year more than 500,000 deaths are attributable to Alzheimer’s and other dementias – six times the amount previously estimated. Moreover, Alzheimer’s is the only one of our nation’s deadliest diseases without an effective means of prevention, treatment, or cure. If nothing is done to change the trajectory of Alzheimer’s, the number of Americans afflicted with the disease is expected to more than triple by 2050. Already our nation’s costliest disease, Alzheimer’s is projected to cost our country more than $1 trillion by 2050. At a time when the United States is spending more than $200 billion a year to care for Alzheimer’s patients, we are spending just four percent of that amount on research. Although the Administration and Congress have made some progress in increasing funding, Alzheimer’s research funding remains disproportionately low compared to its human and economic toll. Indeed, similarly deadly diseases receive annual funding of $2 billion, $3 billion, and even $5.6 billion for research, which has paid dividends. Given the tremendous human and economic price of this devastating disease, we can do more for Alzheimer’s. Investments in research for other diseases have yielded tremendous results: patients have access to new treatments, and death rates for some diseases are decreasing. Yet, at the same time, mortality due to Alzheimer’s is escalating dramatically. Fortunately, there is promising research that holds hope for Alzheimer’s patients and their families. The research community is poised to make important advances through clinical trials and investigating new therapeutic targets, but adequate funding is critical to advance this research. The National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease, which was authorized by the bipartisan 2010 National Alzheimer’s Project Act, has as its primary goal to “prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer’s disease by 2025.” To meet that goal, the Chairman of the Advisory Council created by the legislation says that we will need to devote $2 billion a year to Alzheimer’s research. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 took a major step forward by providing a $350 million increase for Alzheimer’s disease research funding, the largest increase for Alzheimer’s research funding in history. Congress has recently taken additional steps to fight Alzheimer's with the enactment of the 21st Century Cures Act, which provides additional funding for the BRAIN Initiative and creates the breakthrough EUREKA prize competition to address pressing diseases, including Alzheimer's. These are critical achievements, but we need to do more. Increasing federal funding for Alzheimer’s research would be a wise investment. We, therefore, urge you to boost our current investment in Alzheimer’s research in your fiscal year 2018 budget request and support efforts to meet the research investment objective set forth in the National Plan. We remain committed to finding a way to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer’s by 2025, and we look forward to working with you to meet that goal. ###
02.02.2017	Last night, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered a Senate floor speech calling on his colleagues on both sides of the aisle to cast aside the political fringes and work together in order to produce results for the American people. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FULL SPEECH ON BIPARTISANSHIP HERE. Tillis on receiving criticism from talking heads on the right: “I don’t really care about the criticism from the talking heads on the far-left or the far-right because I consider them to be one of the great threats we have to actually turning this Congress around and getting things done. And I’m going to do everything I can to reach across the aisle and produce solutions to some of the most vexing problems we have. And they are solutions within our reach.” Tillis on bipartisan immigration reform:“If you think about immigration reform, a 40-year-old failure on the part of Republicans and Democrats to address the immigration problem, everyone wants their position on one end of the spectrum or the other, versus what the American people want, which is a solution to the problem. A solution that makes sure the American worker is respected and taken care of, that our borders are secure, and that we end this failure on the part of Washington to solve the problem.” Tillis defines what real political courage is:“Political courage, in terms of someone who would walk onto this floor, is someone who could look at a fellow Republican and conservative and say, ‘we’re not going to go where you want to go because we’re here to get something done.’ Not just to make speeches, not to just talk about an unachievable goal, but to make progress on sound, conservative policies. But maybe we have to make some compromises, maybe we have to go a little further than we want to, because we want to get something done. We want to pass things that are good. If we wait to only pass things that are perfect, then we will be guilty of doing exactly what many others have done in this body: promise a lot and deliver very little.” Tillis on holding members of his own party accountable:“It's time to get past the election results, get over it and get to work. It's time to recognize that real people sent a mandate, but the mandate wasn't Republican, wasn’t far-right, wasn’t far-left. All they said was produce results. I'm going to produce results. I'm going to expect my members to produce results. I'm going to go into my conference when it looks like we're going down the path that doesn't produce a result and I'm going to call them out, and I’ll hold my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to the same standard. I'm going to hope to find folks that want to solve the immigration problem in a respectful, methodical way. I want to work with people on the other side of the aisle who want to solve the criminal justice problem.” ###
01.31.2017	Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, met with VA Secretary nominee Dr. David Shulkin.Earlier this month, Tillis expressed his support for Dr. Shulkin following his nomination to be Secretary of Veteran Affairs. “Dr. Shulkin has demonstrated his commitment to reforming the VA, and he is a fine choice to lead the department. As VA Secretary, Dr. Shulkin will help accelerate the progress the department has recently made, particularly when it comes to moving forward with the MyVA initiative to streamline the VA bureaucracy. Over the last two years, I’ve had the honor of working directly with Dr. Shulkin and Secretary McDonald on this initiative. “If Congress and the incoming administration gives Dr. Shulkin the tools and authorities he needs, I am confident we can transform the VA for the better and deliver the kind of timely and quality health care our veterans need and deserve.” ###
01.31.2017	Yesterday, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), and Claire McCaskill (D-MO), members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, sent a letter to Secretary of Defense James Mattis following President Trump’s executive order suspending immigration from seven countries for 90 days and the refugee assistance program for 120 days to express concern about the harmful impact that this policy has on Iraqis who provided essential support to the U.S. mission in Iraq. “Given your strong support for programs that offer refuge to vetted Iraqis and Afghans whose lives are in danger because of the critical assistance they provide to our soldiers and diplomats, we want to raise one specific example of the danger the Executive Order poses to our national security,” the senators wrote. “Over the weekend, two Iraqis who supported the U.S. armed forces and who, after years of vetting, received special immigrant visas to enter the U.S. were detained at New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport after the executive order was put into place.” “This situation is unacceptable, and we fear the United States will pay significant moral and strategic costs if it continues, particularly in terms of our ability to obtain necessary local support for U.S. military missions abroad,” the senators wrote. “As such, we respectfully request that you encourage the President to immediately ensure that properly vetted Iraqis who supported the U.S. mission in their country can continue to enter the U.S.” The senators mention Sec. Mattis’ support of the special immigrant visa (SIV) program, which came up in his confirmation hearings earlier this month, and Mattis’ pledge to “work to ensure that these programs have sufficient visas that those who provided critical support and whose lives are threatened are not left behind.” “We recognize that much of the responsibility for implementing this Executive Order falls outside of your official duties as Secretary,” the senators wrote. “However, given that you understand the strategic and moral importance of standing with, and when necessary providing refuge to, those foreigners who supported our soldiers and diplomats, we urge you to intercede with the President and we support any efforts you make toward that end. Properly vetted individuals who supported the U.S. missions overseas and face threats as a result must continue to be allowed entry to the United States.” Full text of the senators’ letter is below. January 30, 2017 The Honorable James MattisSecretaryDepartment of Defense1000 Defense PentagonWashington, D.C. 20310-1000 Dear Secretary Mattis: We write to express our concerns with President Trump’s recent Executive Order that bars individuals from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Somalia, Libya and Yemen from entering the United States and temporarily shutters the U.S. Refugee Assistance Program. Given your strong support for programs that offer refuge to vetted Iraqis and Afghans whose lives are in danger because of the critical assistance they provide to our soldiers and diplomats, we want to raise one specific example of the danger the Executive Order poses to our national security. As you know, the President’s Executive Order prevents Iraqis who provided essential support to the U.S. mission in their country and face threats as a result from entering the United States. This situation is unacceptable, and we fear the United States will pay significant moral and strategic costs if it continues, particularly in terms of our ability to obtain necessary local support for U.S. military missions abroad. As such, we respectfully request that you encourage the President to immediately ensure that properly vetted Iraqis who supported the U.S. mission in their country can continue to enter the U.S. As you know, the Iraqi Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program and the Priority-2 Direct Access Program for Iraqi refugees have issued thousands of visas to vetted Iraqi nationals who supported the U.S. in Iraq. A related SIV program is available to Afghans who have supported the U.S. mission in their country. You have described how you have written letters of support for Iraqis who served alongside our servicemembers. You also indicated in a response to a question for the record following your nomination hearing, that “most of our units could not have accomplished their missions without the assistance, often at risk to their lives, of these courageous men and women.” Finally, you pledged that you will work to ensure that these programs have sufficient visas that those who provided critical support and whose lives are threatened are not left behind. We recognize that much of the responsibility for implementing this Executive Order falls outside of your official duties as Secretary. However, given that you understand the strategic and moral importance of standing with, and when necessary providing refuge to, those foreigners who supported our soldiers and diplomats, we urge you to intercede with the President and we support any efforts you make toward that end. Properly vetted individuals who supported the U.S. missions overseas and face threats as a result must continue to be allowed entry to the United States. Thank you for your consideration of this request. ###
01.31.2017	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on President Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Court, Neil Gorsuch: “Judge Neil Gorsuch is an incredibly qualified and mainstream choice to serve on the Supreme Court. He has proven himself to be a judge who approaches every case before him with fairness, and bases his decisions on the rule of law. I hope my colleagues in the Senate, regardless of party, will join me in thoughtfully considering Judge Gorsuch as our next Supreme Court Justice.” ###
01.29.2017	"America has always been a home for refugees fleeing persecution and seeking freedom, and it should continue to be. It’s why I’ve been an outspoken supporter of programs like the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa program, which allows Afghans who supported America’s mission in Afghanistan to apply for refuge in the United States. "As we offer safety to refugees, we must also be mindful of the sad reality that radical Islamic terrorists are actively attempting to infiltrate refugee programs to enter Western nations. The FBI director has warned Congress that the United States lacks the capability to properly vet all Syrian refugees. This is a significant vulnerability, and strengthening the screening of refugees is a matter of national security. "While the executive order does take immediate action aimed at tightening the refugee screening process, there is a lot of confusion surrounding the order, particularly given the instances of green card holders inexplicably being denied entry back into the United States. The order should be refined to provide more clarity and mitigate unintended consequences that do not make our country any safer." ###
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier today, Governor Cooper announced that North Carolina has received more than $198 million in federal assistance for Hurricane Matthew recovery that was secured by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and other members of North Carolina’s Congressional delegation. In December, Congress passed a continuing resolution (CR) that provides North Carolina with more than $300 million in recovery assistance for damage caused by Hurricane Matthew. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) led the North Carolina Congressional delegation’s effort to secure the disaster assistance for North Carolina, which began today with the allocation of more than $198 million from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in the form of Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) funding. The CDBG-DR funding will support family and community needs, including housing, infrastructure, and jobs. The funding will be critical for Eastern North Carolina’s recovery efforts in the wake of Hurricane Matthew. “Thousands of North Carolinians have had their lives upended because of the historic flooding caused by Hurricane Matthew. Today the state has received funding to immediately assist these families and their communities,” said Senator Tillis. “While this federal funding will undoubtedly help many North Carolina families, the recovery will still be a long and tough process. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress and state leaders to ensure North Carolina has the resources it needs to become whole again.” ###
01.23.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement on the passing of his friend and former colleague, Ruth Samuelson: “Susan and I are absolutely heartbroken by the loss of our dear friend Ruth Samuelson. Our deepest condolences go out to her husband Ken, their children and Ruth’s entire family during this incredibly difficult time. “Ruth Samuelson was a loving wife, dedicated mother, tireless public servant, and one of our closest friends. Her life was in public as it was in private: grounded in faith and focused on serving others. I am blessed to have had the privilege of knowing and working with Ruth over these last many years and seeing firsthand how impactful her life was to everyone she knew. Her devotion to her faith and her family served her well in the halls of the North Carolina legislature, where she worked with both sides of the aisle to become one of the most influential leaders in the state. As Speaker of the House, there was no one I counted on more than Ruth Samuelson. “Ruth bravely fought this disease with the same strength, grace and dignity that have defined her life’s work. In doing so, she left a final legacy of unshakable faith and unwavering hope that should inspire us all. As we mourn her loss and pray for her family, we rejoice in knowing that the faith that guided Ruth’s life has now carried her home.” ###
01.22.2017	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) is encouraging North Carolinians who sustained flood property damage from Hurricane Matthew to register for federal disaster assistance before tomorrow’s January 23, 2017, FEMA deadline. “Hurricane Matthew caused historic flooding damage that upended the lives of thousands of our fellow North Carolinians, and the recovery process will be long and difficult for many families and communities,” said Senator Tillis. “Fortunately, there is federal assistance available for the victims of Hurricane Matthew, and I encourage North Carolinians to apply before tomorrow’s FEMA deadline. My office remains a resource for North Carolinians during the recovery process, and my staff stands ready to help individuals who are registering for assistance.” Background on FEMA assistance registration The deadline to register for assistance is Monday, January 23, 2017. North Carolinians can apply for FEMA assistance by visiting https://www.disasterassistance.gov or by calling 800-621-3362 and should have the following information on hand when they apply: Social Security number Address of damaged home or apartment Description of the damage Information about insurance coverage Telephone number Mailing address Bank account and routing numbers for direct deposit of funds Senator Tillis’ office will open at 8:30am on Monday, and North Carolinians with questions about the FEMA registration process are encouraged to call his office at 919-856-4630. A total of 45 counties are eligible for Individual Assistance, which can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, and other programs to help individuals and households recover from the effects of the disaster: Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chatham, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Martin, Moore, Nash, Northampton, Onslow, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Richmond, Robeson, Sampson, Scotland, Tyrrell, Wake, Washington, Wayne and Wilson. A total of 50 counties are eligible for FEMA Public Assistance, Categories A through G, which includes grants for reimbursement of emergency costs, and permanent repair or replacement of disaster-damaged infrastructure resulting from Hurricane Matthew: Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chatham, Chowan, Columbus, Cumberland, Craven, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Franklin, Gates, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Martin, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Richmond, Robeson, Sampson, Scotland, Tyrrell, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne and Wilson. ###
01.20.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following video statement after the inauguration of President Donald J. Trump. “Congratulations to Donald Trump on becoming the 45th President of the United States of America,” said Senator Tillis. “I wish him the best and I am going to work hard to produce the results the American people trusted us to produce when they elected Republicans last November. I look forward to serving with him.” CLICK HERE for the video. ###
01.20.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Personnel, issued the following statement on General James Mattis’ confirmation as Secretary of Defense: “I congratulate Secretary of Defense James Mattis and I look forward to working with him to modernize our military, improve the quality of life for our servicemembers and military families, and address the longstanding bureaucratic inefficiencies within the Pentagon.” ###
01.20.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order directing federal agencies to “ease the burden” of Obamacare: “I’m pleased that one of President Trump’s first acts in office will give agencies flexibility to alleviate Obamacare’s costly burden on hardworking Americans as Congress works to repeal and replace the law. “I’ve heard far too many heartbreaking stories from North Carolina families who have struggled to afford Obamacare’s skyrocketing premiums, with some even being forced to forgo health insurance for the first time in their lives. I look forward to working with the administration and my colleagues to implement patient-centered health care reforms that will better control costs and give individuals, families, and employers more choices.” ###
01.18.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) was selected to serve as the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel, the panel with jurisdiction over Department of Defense (DOD) personnel policies, including compensation, benefits, education and health care for servicemembers, their families, and DOD civilian employees. “It’s an honor to chair the Senate Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee and serve as a champion for quality of life issues for our brave men and women in uniform, as well as their families,” said Senator Tillis. “During my time as chairman, the Personnel Subcommittee will work on solutions to improve TRICARE services, increase healthcare coordination between the military and private sector, and improve conditions at military facilities.” Senate Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel Responsibilities: Military and Department of Defense (DOD) civilian personnel policies; end strengths for military personnel; military personnel compensation and benefits; military health care; and military nominations. Special additional areas: Professional Military Education; DOD schools; DOD child care and family assistance; Civil-military programs; POW/MIA issues; Armed Forces Retirement Home; Morale, Welfare and Recreation; and military commissaries and exchanges. Oversight of budget accounts: Military personnel; military retirement; Defense Health Program; DOD Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Care Fund; and operation and maintenance for certain education and civil-military programs. Oversight of DOD offices: Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel & Readiness); Assistant Secretary of Defense (Reserve Affairs); Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health Affairs). Oversight of DOD agencies: Defense Health Agency; Defense Commissary Agency; and Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences; Defense Prisoner of War/Missing in Action Accounting Agency. ###
01.18.2017	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today released the following statement: “It’s outrageous that President Obama has chosen to end his presidency by rewarding WikiLeaks and one of their enablers. Manning is a traitor who handed military and state secrets to WikiLeaks, putting our troops in danger. President Obama’s commutation of Manning’s sentence is the ultimate act of disrespect to our troops, our intelligence community, and our allies.” ###
01.16.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement to commemorate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “This Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, we celebrate the life and legacy of a man who changed history by leading the fight for freedom and opportunity for all Americans. We are a better nation and a better people because of Dr. King's inspirational leadership of the Civil Rights Movement and his courage in challenging America to live up to its full potential." ###
01.13.2017	Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs published a regulation announcing compensation payments to Marines suffering from health problems caused by tainted water at Camp Lejeune. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) has long fought for medical coverage and compensation for Lejeune veterans suffering from medical conditions including multiple kinds of cancer and Parkinson’s disease. “It’s about time, these veterans put their lives on the line for our nation and they were negligently poisoned by the government,” said Senator Richard Burr. “We know that toxic water at Lejeune caused a host of debilitating medical conditions that service members are suffering and dying from. These men and women deserve this help.” “I applaud today’s announcement that the Department of Veterans Affairs has finalized the agency rule to grant disability benefits to servicemembers who were exposed to contaminated drinking water while stationed at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “These veterans have waited far too long, and I want to thank Senator Burr, Jerry Ensminger, and the entire Camp Lejeune Community Assistance Panel for their tireless efforts to bring justice to these veterans and to make them whole once again. I look forward to those affected receiving the compensation they deserve, and I encourage any veteran who experiences difficulty receiving their disability payment to contact my office immediately.” The rule will provide compensation for veterans that served at Camp Lejeune for 30 days or more from 1953 to 1987. Service members suffering from the following eight diseases automatically qualify for compensation: Kidney cancer Liver cancer Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma Adult leukemia Multiple myeloma Parkinson’s disease Aplastic anemia and other myelodysplastic syndromes Bladder cancer The VA estimates that more than 900,000 service members could have been exposed to toxic water. Senator Burr has worked tirelessly to secure the medical care and compensation for veterans affected by toxic water at Camp Lejeune. In 2015, the VA granted disability status to victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water. The federal rule is available online here. ###
01.12.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, spoke at the confirmation hearing for General James Mattis to discuss eliminating the bureaucratic inefficiencies plaguing the Pentagon. Senator Tillis has previously stated his support for General Mattis as Secretary of Defense. CLICK HERE to view the video. ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on David Shulkin, President-elect Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Veterans Affairs: “Dr. Shulkin has demonstrated his commitment to reforming the VA, and he is a fine choice to lead the department. As VA Secretary, Dr. Shulkin will help accelerate the progress the department has recently made, particularly when it comes to moving forward with the MyVA initiative to streamline the VA bureaucracy. Over the last two years, I’ve had the honor of working directly with Dr. Shulkin and Secretary McDonald on this initiative. “If Congress and the incoming administration gives Dr. Shulkin the tools and authorities he needs, I am confident we can transform the VA for the better and deliver the kind of timely and quality health care our veterans need and deserve.” ###
01.09.2017	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today announced that Courtney Temple will serve as his next Legislative Director. Temple most recently served as Senator Tillis’ Senior Legislative Assistant, where she focused on immigration policy. Prior to joining Senator Tillis’ office in 2015, Temple was the Director of Government Relations at U.S. Travel Association, where she worked with Republican members of Congress on issues related to traveler visa reform, the TSA screening process, and the Terrorism Risk Insurance program. Prior to that, Temple served as Legislative Director for former Representative Joe Heck (R-NV-3), where she focused on education, workforce, and travel and tourism issues. Temple also served in legislative roles for former Representatives David Hobson (R-OH-7) and Steve Austria (R-OH-7). “Courtney is a legislative all-star whose work ethic and passion for public policy is unmatched,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Her promotion is well-deserved, and I’m excited to have her leading our legislative team as we advance policy priorities in the 115th Congress that will generate opportunities for hardworking Americans and get our nation headed back in the right direction.” Temple will be succeeding Katy Talento, who was recently appointed by the Trump-Pence Presidential Transition Team to serve on the White House Domestic Policy Council, where she will oversee healthcare policy. ###
01.08.2017	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) appeared on Fox News Channel’s Sunday Morning Futures to discuss the pervasive cybersecurity threats facing both the federal government and the private sector. CLICK HERE to view the video. ####
01.05.2017	Today, U.S. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-TX) announced that Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) will serve on the Senate Republican Whip Team for the 115th Congress. As a member of the Whip Team, Senator Tillis will work with his Senate colleagues – both Republican and Democrat – to garner support for legislation by reaching the 60-vote threshold. Senator Thom Tillis said: “The American people sent a clear message in November that they want to see less gridlock and more results out of Washington. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support commonsense solutions that will help create jobs, grow our economy, and strengthen our nation’s military.” Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn said: “With a keen ability to work across the aisle on things like criminal justice reform and improving care for our veterans, Senator Tillis has quickly become an effective partner in the Senate. I’m grateful for his commitment to help execute an agenda that continues to focus on the priorities of the American people during the next two years.” ###
12.28.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to Secretary of State John Kerry’s speech regarding Israel: “In the waning days of President Obama’s final term, his administration – though its words and actions – has engaged in an inexplicable campaign of disparagement towards Israel. This appears aimed at abandoning the longstanding bipartisan precedent of America’s special relationship with Israel, one of our closest allies and the only democracy in the Middle East. “While Secretary Kerry had the audacity to go out of his way to insultingly claim that the Israeli government is being driven by “extreme elements,” he amazingly refused to refer to Hamas for what it actually is – a terrorist group that targets and kills innocent Israeli civilians. “This is a shameful episode in the history of U.S. foreign relations, and I look forward to having an administration that is committed to restoring our special friendship with Israel and making productive efforts to achieve a two state solution.”
12.22.2016	In the Senate, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has continued to work to bring justice to the victims of North Carolina’s state-run eugenics and sterilization program. Senator Tillis has also attempted to raise the public’s awareness of a dark and shameful chapter in America’s history, calling on other states to join North Carolina in creating their own compensation programs for living eugenics victims. In the General Assembly, Tillis worked across the aisle to compensate the victims of North Carolina’s state-run eugenics program. From the 1920s to the 1970s, more than 60,000 Americans in 33 states were sterilized. North Carolina had one of the most aggressive eugenics programs in the nation, sterilizing more than 7,600 North Carolinians against their will. The state government targeted specific groups for sterilization, including unmarried women, African-Americans, and children from poor families. When Tillis was a member of the N.C. House, he joined then-state Rep. Larry Womble in a bipartisan effort to compensate the living victims of the state’s eugenics programs. They ran into political opposition from the beginning, first blocked by a Democratic governor and legislature, and then meeting resistance from some of Tillis’ fellow Republicans when he became speaker. In 2013, they worked out a hard-fought bipartisan compromise that made North Carolina the first state in the nation to create a compensation fund for the living victims of its state-run eugenics program. In the Senate, Tillis quickly introduced legislation to close a loophole that could have financially harmed eugenics survivors receiving compensation payments. Senator Tillis noticed an unintended problem with federal law that could affect eugenics victims receiving compensation payments. Since the federal government counted the compensation as “income,” it jeopardized the victims’ eligibility for federal safety net benefits like Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, and others. This meant that the victims—many of whom already have only the modest of means—could have had their federal benefits reduced, or eliminated altogether. Senator Tillis introduced The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act to fix the problem. The legislation passed the Senate and House unanimously, and was signed into law by President Obama in October 2016. Editorial: “The bill is fair, sensible and necessary. Without this protection, a $20,000 payment from the state could be used to deny food stamps, disability or other benefits.” (Editorial, Greensboro News & Record, 7/3/15) Editorial: “‘Bipartisan’ is all but a lost concept these days in Washington. So we applaud a current bipartisan effort that is for the best of causes. Republican Sen. Thom Tillis of North Carolina joined forces with Democratic Sen. Tom Carper of Delaware to author a bill to protect sterilization victims receiving compensation payments from cutbacks in federal benefits because of those payments…. This protection is needed. North Carolina, the first state in the union to pay such compensation, has been followed by Virginia. We foresee a domino effect spreading to other states that had such programs. The Journal editorial board long fought for that compensation here, compensation Tillis and Democrat Larry Womble of Winston-Salem secured as a major part of their service in the state House.” (Editorial, Winston-Salem Journal, 10/4/16) Tillis: “I am encouraged to see such broad, bipartisan support among my colleagues to help ensure living eugenics victims receive their full compensation payments and federal benefits. I also hope this legislation will raise awareness across the nation over the fact that these deplorable government-sanctioned programs existed in the first place. The stories of the terrible transgressions made against innocent Americans like Willis Lynch deserve to be heard and never forgotten.” (Thom Tillis op-ed, USA Today, 9/9/15) ###
12.21.2016	Over the last two years, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has worked across the aisle to advance policies that support and benefit military families, including expanding job opportunities for military spouses and promoting commonsense reforms to improve the quality and delivery of health care for servicemembers and their families. Senator Tillis has been working across the aisle to ensure military families have access to autism therapy for their children. Senators Tillis and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) have been working together to help stop reductions to TRICARE’s reimbursement rates for Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy to beneficiaries diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). In March 2016, Tillis and Gillibrand urged the Defense Secretary to delay the new rates until after completion of the Demonstration program to protect ABA therapy access for over 26,000 children of military personnel and retirees. The following month, the Defense Health Agency (DHA) moved forward with adjusting TRICARE reimbursement rates for ABA therapy to beneficiaries diagnosed with ASD. Although metropolitan areas saw an increase in reimbursement rates, military bases mostly located in suburban or rural areas saw drastic cuts and substantial decreases. The FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act includes a Tillis-Gillibrand provision that would address issues with reimbursement rates for the TRICARE Autism Care Demonstration program to ensure access to care for all military dependents with ASD. “It’s difficult for some military parents at Fort Bragg, N.C., and other bases nationwide, to find in-network specialists for their children with autism and that’s due, in part, to the way federal officials changed health insurance plan reimbursements earlier this year, according to a group of U.S. senators. North Carolina’s Thom Tillis has joined the group of senators in a bipartisan call for Congress to reverse the reimbursement cuts via additional funding for the U.S. Department of Defense.” (McClatchy, 10/5/16) Senator Tillis has been leading the effort to modernize and improve health care for servicemembers and their families. Senator Tillis secured several provisions in the FY2017 NDAA that would reform TRICARE by increasing collaboration between the military and private sector. TRICARE is the military health plan for servicemembers, military retirees, and their families. Tillis’ provisions would: Establish high performance military-civilian integrated healthy delivery systems, which would foster innovation in military treatment facilities, enhance operational medical force readiness, and improve access to specialized medical care. Require the Secretary of Defense to enter into centrally-managed, performance-based contracts with private sector entities to improve the delivery of health care services at military treatment facilities with limited ability to provide services such as primary care or expanded-hours urgent care. Set the stage for memoranda of agreements between the Department of Defense and institution of higher education that offer degrees in allopathic or osteopathic medicine, which could help improve and sustain operational medical force readiness and possibly serve as a productive recruiting grounds for new military physicians. Tillis has been working to expand job opportunities for military spouses, recognizing the vast personal and professional sacrifices they make. Senator Tillis secured an amendment in the FY2017 NDAA that would close the two-year time limit loophole for military spouses who move from base to base and seek federal employment on that base. Tillis’ amendment will have an immediate impact on the quality of life for military spouses and their families. Currently, a military spouse only has two years to invoke the military spouse preference from the date of the service member’s permanent change of station orders, which are issued well in advance of a military family arriving at a new duty station. Combined with the demands of raising children, adjusting to new surroundings, and the actual availability of federal jobs, many military spouses have missed consideration for employment or have had job offers withdrawn because they lost eligibility. Tillis helped secure a major Census change to count North Carolina servicemembers. Senator Tillis worked with the communities of Fayetteville and Jacksonville and the U.S. Census Bureau to ensure that U.S. military personnel who are deployed outside the U.S. and are living on or off a military installation outside the U.S. are counted as residents of the state where they live and sleep most of the time. Previously, the Census counted deployed servicemembers as residents of states they lived in at the time they originally enlisted for service. The changes to the 2020 census mean that all soldiers, airmen and Marines from North Carolina’s military installations will be counted in the decennial census as residents of the state, regardless of whether or not they are deployed abroad. Since many federal tax dollars are proportional to population, North Carolina would benefit from additional Department of Education, transportation, and agriculture funding as a result of an increased population in the 2020 census. ###
12.21.2016	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has used his position on the Senate Armed Services Committee over the last two years to champion North Carolina’s military installations – including Fort Bragg, Camp Lejeune, Cherry Point, and Seymour Johnson – and has advanced initiatives that reaffirm North Carolina’s status as the nation’s tip of the spear. Senator Tillis is working to protect Fort Bragg’s rapid deployment capabilities. Senator Tillis secured a provision in the FY2017 NDAA that would require the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, to submit a report to the Senate outlining plans to extend the runway Pope Airfield and to indicate whether such project is a priority for the Army. The runway at Pope Airfield is currently too short to accommodate fully fueled and fully loaded C-17 and C-5 airlifts, forcing the airlifts to be refueled in South Carolina or Newfoundland at a taxpayer cost of $17,000 per hour. Fort Bragg leaders have previously requested that the runway at Pope Airfield be extended to accommodate the airlift requirements of America’s Global Response Force, whose mission is to have the units of the XVIII Airborne Corps anywhere in the world within 48 hours’ notice. Prior to the latest round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC), extending the Pope Runway was the Air Mobility Command’s number one airfield project and the United States Air Force’s number two project for funding. “On Thursday, North Carolina's Sen. Thom Tillis filed legislation that requires the secretary of the Army to submit a report on plans to extend the Pope runway and whether or not it's a top priority. Unless it does rank high in the Army's to-do list, it may not be funded. Given the Pentagon's renewed emphasis on preparation for rapid response by U.S. forces, and Fort Bragg's unique responsibility in that area, we can't imagine why a longer runway wouldn't be the highest of priorities.” (Fayetteville Observer, Editorial, 4/28/16) Senator Tillis has been leading the fight to save the C-130 presence at Fort Bragg. Senator Tillis led the opposition to the Pentagon’s short-sighted and strategically flawed decision to dismantle the 440th Airlift Wing and remove the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg, which has been vital to the training and readiness of the XVIII Airborne. Senator Tillis has made it clear he intends to continue to hold the Pentagon accountable for failing to meet the training needs of the Global Response Force, and he will continue to work on options to ensure that the future of Fort Bragg includes a C-130 presence. “The Air Force's initial failure to meet Fort Bragg's jump-training needs set off a firestorm in Congress, led by Sen. Thom Tillis, who has pushed hard for Air Force accountability and improved performance. Less than two months ago, Tillis told us that, ‘we've got a readiness problem’ because the Air Force wasn't meeting Bragg's jump-training needs.” (Fayetteville Observer, Editorial, 8/16/16) Tillis has been leading efforts to support the mission at Cherry Point, including working to expedite the construction of the F-35B Vertical Lift Fan Repair Facility. Tillis secured funding last year for a new security fence at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point to set the stage for major infrastructure improvements to the base. Cherry Point is the largest airfield in the Marine Corps and is slated to begin receiving the F-35 B Joint Strike Fighter, the replacement for the AV8-B Harrier, before the end of the decade. Senator Tillis also received a commitment from the F-35 Joint Program Office that the F-35 Lift Fan Repair Facility, vital to the maintenance of the vertical take-off and landing capabilities of the F-35, will be housed at Cherry Point. “U.S. Sen. Thom Tillis toured Cherry Point on Wednesday afternoon and later met with base supporters, telling them the base’s infrastructure ‘needs to be updated.’ …Tillis said he is excited about the economic prospect of the arrival of F-35B squadrons at Cherry Point, scheduled to begin in 2022 or 2023. ‘North Carolina can play a very important role with what we’re doing down here at Cherry Point already,’ said Tillis. The senator mentioned his support for the location of a new F-35B lift fan facility at Fleet Readiness Center East at Cherry Point.” (Havelock News, 6/2/16) Tillis successfully halted a plan to transfer 24 AG-64 Apache helicopter froms the North Carolina National Guard. Senator Tillis secured a provision in the FY2016 omnibus that stopped the planned transfer of 24 AG-64 Apache helicopters from the N.C. National Guard in Raleigh to the regular Army. Tillis’ provision helped save roughly 400 North Carolina jobs, and most importantly stopped a plan that would have undermined the combat prowess of the Army Guard, the nation’s first line of defense. Senators Tillis & Burr secured funding for the construction of an air traffic control tower at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Last year, the Air Force announced a preliminary decision to establish a new KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron at Goldsboro’s Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Senators Tillis and Burr secured funding for the construction of an air traffic control tower in the FY2016 omnibus. The control tower will provide the needed safety for the squadron of tankers, which are expected at Seymour Johnson by 2019. ###
12.20.2016	During his first two years in the U.S. Senate, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has established himself as a leading voice for bipartisan immigration reforms and a staunch defender of North Carolina small businesses that depend on seasonal workers to survive and support American jobs. Tillis has called for pragmatic, bipartisan immigration reform that secures the border and addresses the undocumented population.While Senator Tillis opposes amnesty, he believes both parties can work together in order to secure the border, address the status of the undocumented population, and support commonsense reforms to the nation’s legal immigration system that would support American businesses and jobs. Senator Tillis has recently said that the incoming Trump administration should consider a “soft landing” for undocumented minors, and he has stated his intent to continue working with his Democratic and Republican colleagues on immigration issues. “Tillis also has begun framing a relatively moderate position on one of the hottest issues before Congress: immigration reform.” (McClatchy, 4/16/16) “In the Senate, he pointed to immigration reform as an issue he would push his party to be strategic about. Shy of ‘amnesty,’ he said he’s open to proposals from either party for what to do with the millions of people living in the country illegally.” (National Journal, 12/12/16) “‘I think the administration should seriously look at a soft landing for them [undocumented minors], I really do,’ said Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), a member of the Judiciary Committee. ‘We’re not talking about amnesty. We’re not talking about granting citizenship. But they represent a class of people that I think are very different....The root cause of this illegal immigration was not the conscious action of the individuals we’re talking about,’ Tillis said. ‘That’s why I think we could look at this and maybe identify a broader base of people who may be willing to support it.’” (Politico, 12/9/16) Tillis has also been an advocate for legal immigration that supports North Carolina businesses and jobs. In spite of the criticism he has received from the right, Senator Tillis has been working across the aisle to reform the H-2B visa program, which is vital to small and seasonal employers across North Carolina who depend on temporary workers to sustain their businesses and supplement their existing American workforce. Senator Tillis partnered with Senator Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) to introduce the Save Our Small and Seasonal Business Act of 2015, and the senators secured key reforms to the H-2B visa program that were included in the FY2016 omnibus. “As a Republican, Tillis is keenly aware of the negative feelings conservative voters associate with foreign worker visas and immigration generally. ‘There’s some general opposition to the notion that what we’re doing will cost American jobs,’ he said. Tillis is in a unique camp among Republicans that disavows that principle.” (Morning Consult, 5/5/16) “But in an interview, Sen. Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), who’s worked with Mikulski to overhaul the program, said senators are already in discussions about the H-2B provisions for this year’s spending bills. (Mikulski and Tillis have a shared interest in protecting their states’ seafood industries; the two have developed a close enough working relationship that Mikulski calls Tillis ‘Catfish.’) ‘We’re looking at it because every year, it’s Band-Aid after Band-Aid,’ Tillis said. ‘And then every season, we’re already hearing problems from the last one.’” (Politico, 5/3/16) “In the specific case of immigration reform, of which the senator is committed to pursuing efforts to help producers secure a skilled legal workforce, he serves on the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary, who has jurisdiction over matters relating to human rights and immigration law. While immigration reform has been a frustrating issue for the fresh produce industry, there are real efforts underway in Congress to show bi-partisan support for reforms to the current H-2A program, efforts in which Tillis is on the forefront.” (United Fresh Produce Association, 8/18/16) Watch Senator Tillis explain why he has been leading efforts to reform the H-2B program to support North Carolina businesses. ###
12.20.2016	During his first two years as a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has worked across the aisle to advance proposals to reform the VA and expand education and job opportunities for veterans, with several of his bipartisan proposals being signed into law. Watch Senator Tillis explain why supporting veterans must be a top priority. Tillis has been working directly with VA Secretary McDonald on the MyVA initiative to transform the VA. “My personal thanks also to Senators Thom Tillis and Jon Tester for meeting with us repeatedly to hone our transformation plans. I believe they know MyVA is about fulfilling the Nation’s obligation to those who have served and that they share our vision for VA to become the Number One customer-service agency in the Government.” – VA Secretary Robert McDonald, January 21, 2016 Early last year, VA Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson praised Tillis’ proposals to reform the VA as “an outstanding template to begin to get a game plan for responding and dealing with the recommendations of the GAO and the IG of the Department.” Chairman Isakson tasked Tillis with working with VA Secretary Robert McDonald on implementing the MyVA Breakthrough Priorities. Tillis and Secretary McDonald have formed a close working relationship, meeting regularly to track the progress of the goal of turning the VA into a more efficient, customer-service and results-driven organization that consistently delivers exceptional health care services to veterans. Senator Tillis introduced bipartisan legislation to help veterans exposed to toxic burn pits. “There was no waiting line for our men and women in uniform when they raised their right hands and volunteered to serve. There shouldn’t be a waiting line when they return home and need our help getting the care they’ve earned. We must do right by our veterans. We can’t let burn pits become this generation’s Agent Orange.” – Senators Tillis & Klobuchar Earlier this year, Senator Tillis and Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) introduced The Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, which would create a center of excellence within the VA in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits. The legislation has helped raise public awareness of the health threats veterans faced in Iraq and Afghanistan, and has been endorsed by numerous groups, including the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Sergeant Sullivan Center, American Lung Association, American Thoracic Society, and the Coalition for Pulmonary Fibrosis. President Obama endorsed two veterans bills introduced by Senator Tillis. “Taken together, these steps will ensure that Veterans have the opportunities and assistance they need to help grow our economy and realize the American Dream.” – Obama White House On Veterans Day 2015, the White House announced President Obama’s endorsement of The Career-Ready Student Veterans Act and The Veterans Education Relief and Restoration Act, bipartisan legislation introduced by Senator Tillis and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT). The Career-Ready Student Veterans Act requires that programs of education designed to prepare students for licensure or certification by a state, or for employment subject to the approval of a state board or agency, must meet any state curriculum requirements or be approved or licensed by the appropriate state entity in order for the course to be approved for VA educational benefits. The language of the bill was included in a broader veterans legislation that passed both chambers in Congress and was recently signed into law by President Obama. The Veterans Education Relief and Restoration Act would provide veterans impacted by closures of education institutions certain relief and restoration of education benefits. The legislation restores entitlement for individuals who pursued a program of education with VA educational assistance and failed to receive credit as a result of the closure of their educational institution. Senator Tillis has worked across the aisle to help wounded warriors find employment. Senator Tillis and Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) introduced The Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act, which requires the VA Secretary to develop and publish an action plan for improving the training and rehabilitation provided by the VA for veterans with service-connected disabilities. The legislation was included as a provision in the FY2016 omnibus that was signed into law by President Obama last year. Senator Tillis has joined Senator Burr’s fight for justice for the victims of toxic water contamination at Camp Lejeune. “I want to thank both North Carolina Senators Burr and Tillis for their steadfast commitment to our plight and seeking justice for the nearly one million Camp Lejeune veterans, their families, and the thousands of loyal civilian employees who were unwittingly exposed to this negligence by their own leaders." – Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger For years, bureaucratic red tape and internal resistance at the VA had delayed a final decision on granting Camp Lejeune veterans disability status. In September 2015, both Senator Burr and Senator Tillis pressed the VA at a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing for answers on behalf of Camp Lejeune veterans who were exposed to contaminated water. Months later, the VA finally granted disability status to the victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water who were diagnosed with one of nine illnesses. Senators Burr and Tillis then successfully pressed the Office of Management and Budget to quickly grant the disability benefits to veterans. Tillis also joined Senator Burr and Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) to introduce The Janey Ensminger Act of 2016, which requires the VA to provide medical care for all diseases that can be scientifically linked to exposure to toxic chemicals at Camp Lejeune, putting the ultimate determination in the hands of federal government scientists, rather than VA and OMB bureaucrats. ###
12.19.2016	During his first two years in the U.S. Senate, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has been a leading advocate for bipartisan criminal justice reform, a continuation of his successful efforts to implement reforms at the state level during his tenure as North Carolina House Speaker. During the Washington Post’s Juvenile Justice Summit earlier this month, Senator Tillis has made it clear that pursuing criminal justice reforms would be one of his top priorities in the upcoming 115th Congress, stating: “This is a critically important issue and solvable problem. We need people to step up and understand the political courage to say it is time to solve this problem.” Watch Senator Tillis explain why we need laws that are tough on crime and smart on rehabilitation: Tillis is a co-sponsor and outspoken supporter of the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act. “This is not a bill about letting murderers go or making our society less safe. It’s a bill that could potentially get someone released sooner so that they would be less likely to commit a crime, save money in the judicial system, and make that transformational opportunity happen for a number of people…It is time to tell the far-left and the far-right to get productive or get out of the way, because we need to solve this problem.” – Senator Thom Tillis, 12/1/16 The Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act recalibrates prison sentences for certain non-violent drug offenders while also targeting violent criminals and adding two new mandatory minimum sentences. The legislation also seeks to reduce recidivism through education, job training, drug rehabilitation, and faith-based programs, and creates a process to seal and expunge juvenile records for nonviolent offenses. Senator Tillis secured an additional layer of accountability in the bill that requires the Department of Justice to conduct a particularized inquiry of the facts and circumstances of each defendant considered for a reduced sentence. Senator Tillis has repeatedly called out both the far-right and far-left for attempting to block the landmark bipartisan bill, recently telling an audience at the Washington Post’s Juvenile Justice Summit: “People bring up Willie Horton or some other political bombshell in the past, but what they’re not being intellectually honest about is if we do not work on early release, if we do not rehabilitate 95 percent of the people who go into the prison system and come out, far more innocent people are going to be harmed. I’m not going to play that political game. The stakes are too high.” “Tillis, R-N.C., has sought to make revamping the nation’s criminal justice system one of his signature issues since arriving in Washington in 2015…” (McClatchy, 11/30/16) “Sen. Thom Tillis warned Wednesday that he could retire instead of running for reelection if Congress isn't able to pass bipartisan measures like a wide-ranging criminal justice bill. ‘I don’t run again until 2020, and if we’re not able to get things like this done, I don’t have any intention of coming back,’ the North Carolina Republican said during a juvenile justice forum.” (The Hill, 11/30/16) Tillis previously led the effort to pass comprehensive criminal justice reform in North Carolina, which has proven to be a major success. In 2011, as North Carolina Speaker of the House, Tillis spearheaded the passage of the Justice Reinvestment Act, sweeping criminal justice reform legislation. The law has resulted in a reduction in North Carolina’s prison population and a significant, double-digit decrease in the recidivism rate. The N.C. Department of Public Safety estimates that the law has also saved hundreds of millions of dollars over the last several years. Then-Speaker Tillis also presided over the passage of several juvenile justice reforms, including allowing a juvenile’s criminal record to be expunged of non-violent offenses and limiting detention for certain offenses. “If that sounds familiar, it’s because North Carolina embarked on that road in 2011 with measurable success. It was probably the biggest bipartisan piece of legislation under now-U.S. Sen. Thom Tillis’ watch when he was speaker of the state House.” (Raleigh News & Observer, 10/22/15) “Tillis pointed out that he worked on criminal justice overhaul legislation while he was speaker of the North Carolina House. He worked to pass the Justice Reinvestment Act, which altered the state’s sentencing laws, as well as other measures relating to juvenile justice. ‘Everybody told me when I did this that I would be cooked. That there was no way I could run for statewide office,’ Tillis said. ‘Here I am.’” (Roll Call, 12/1/16) “Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC) says he's familiar with the process of selling criminal justice reform to a skeptical audience. Tillis was speaker of the North Carolina House when the legislature passed the Justice Reinvestment Act, which made back-end reforms to reduce recidivism. ‘I know that a lot of people get concerned with it,’ Tillis said. ‘It’s not really a soft on crime bill. It is the typical arguments that get used for these sorts of things, but I think the more that we educate people, the broader base of support we will get for it.’” (Talking Points Memo, 12/2/16) ###
12.13.2016	U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, announced that the Senate has passed their provision that would address issues with reimbursement rates for the TRICARE Autism Care Demonstration program. The Department of Defense is currently implementing a demonstration project that is scheduled to expire in December, 2018 that provides access to Applied Behavioral Analysis therapy to all military dependents with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Gillibrand and Tillis’s efforts would reset reimbursement rates for providers to no less than the levels that were in effect on March 31, 2016 to ensure access to care for all military dependents with ASD. The provision passed the Senate as part of the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and now heads to the President for his signature. "During the past year, Senator Gillibrand and I have been working across the aisle to help restore reimbursement rates for ABA providers, and I'm pleased our provision was included in the NDAA," said Senator Tillis. "I now look forward to working with appropriators in the House and Senate to ensure that we provide for our military families.” “I am so pleased that we were able to come together and roll back these rates to ensure that providers continue to participate in the Autism Care Demonstration program and that our military families have access to the critical services, care and support they need and deserve,” said Senator Gillibrand. In March, Tillis and Gillibrand urged the Defense Secretary in a bipartisan letter to delay the new rates until after completion of the Demonstration program to protect ABA therapy access for over 26,000 children of military personnel and retirees. The following month, the Defense Health Agency (DHA) moved forward with adjusting TRICARE reimbursement rates for ABA therapy to beneficiaries diagnosed with ASD. Although metropolitan areas saw an increase in reimbursement rates, military bases mostly located in suburban or rural areas saw drastic cuts and substantial decreases in reimbursement rates. The Demonstration program was designed to combine three different TRICARE programs that covered ABA services for beneficiaries into a single program with one uniform benefit. The demonstration program would also expand access to these services among the 26,000 TRICARE beneficiaries with ASD. ###
12.10.2016	Oversight, the Senate passed Senator Richard Burr’s (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis’ (R-NC) legislation to prevent the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) from banning houseboats on Lake Fontana and Hiwasee Lake. TVA’s original proposed ban on houseboats would affect nearly 400 houseboat owners in Western North Carolina. The language was included in the Water Resources Development compromise bill which is now headed to President Obama’s desk. “This legislation will prevent the Tennessee Valley Authority from kicking people out of their homes,” said Senator Burr. “I want to thank Congressman Mark Meadows for his work on this issue in the House. Many of these families have been living on the water for decades and I am glad they will get to remain in their homes.” “I’m proud the Senate was able to advance this important piece of legislation,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Senator Burr and Congressman Meadows for their hard work to ensure that houseboat owners on Fontana Lake won't lose their homes.” In August, Senator Burr wrote a letter to the Tennessee Valley Authority urging the agency to reconsider this proposal which would effectively ban houseboats in some parts of Western North Carolina. The full signed letter is available online here.
12.09.2016	Tonight, the Senate passed a continuing resolution (CR) that keeps the government funded until April and provides North Carolina with more than $300 million in recovery assistance for damage caused by Hurricane Matthew. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) led the North Carolina Congressional delegation’s effort to secure the disaster assistance for North Carolina, which will soon be allocated to the state for initial immediate needs to assist the recovery effort. “The continuing resolution passed by Congress will provide North Carolina with more than $300 million in immediate assistance to rebuild homes, businesses, schools and roads in wake of the devastation caused by Hurricane Matthew,” said Senator Tillis. “The recovery process will be long and tough, and in the months ahead, I will be working closely with Governor-elect Cooper and my colleagues in Congress to ensure that North Carolina has the financial resources it needs to become whole again.” The Hurricane Matthew recovery assistance for North Carolina contained in the CR includes funding for: Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG - DR), which will support community needs including housing, infrastructure and jobs. This funding will be critical for long-term recovery efforts in eastern North Carolina. USDA Emergency Conservation Program (ECP), which will assist with repairing farm roads, restoring fencing, conservation practices and debris removal. Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Emergency Highway Funding, which will help restore damaged roads, clear debris, and reopen critical roadways that were damaged. The Army Corps of Engineers, which will repair damage on Army Corp properties in North Carolina caused by Hurricane Matthew. ###
12.08.2016	Today, the Senate passed the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which includes several provisions introduced by Senator Tillis that will strengthen Fort Bragg’s rapid deployment capabilities, support military spouses, and modernize the TRICARE system to improve healthcare for military families. The FY2017 NDAA provides servicemembers with the largest pay raise in six years, halts the Army drawback, and supports America’s allies amid growing threats across the globe. The legislation now heads to President Obama’s desk. “The NDAA reaffirms our nation’s commitment to supporting our brave men and women in uniform and caring for our military families who already make tremendous sacrifices on behalf of our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that my provisions to improve the rapid deployment capabilities of Fort Bragg, reform TRICARE, and to close a loophole that will make it easier for military spouses to obtain employment were all included in the NDAA. President Obama should quickly sign this legislation into law.” The Senate version of the NDAA contains the following provisions that were secured by Senator Tillis: Advancing the extension of the Pope Airfield RunwayTo protect Fort Bragg’s rapid deployment capabilities, Tillis’ provision requires the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, to submit a report to the Senate outlining plans to extend the runway at Pope Airfield and to indicate whether such project is a priority for the Army. Currently, C-17 and C-5 airlifts cannot depart from Pope Airfield fully fueled with a full load of paratroopers due to the current 8,500 foot takeoff length of the runway. Fully loaded C-17s and C-5s require a takeoff length of 10,500 feet, and 11,500 feet, respectively. Supporting military spouses by helping them gain federal employmentTillis’ provision would have an immediate impact on the quality of life for many military spouses and their families by closing the two-year time limit loophole for military spouses who move from base to base and seek federal employment on that base. Currently, a military spouse only has two years to invoke the military spouse preference from the date of the service member’s permanent change of station orders, which are issued well in advance of a military family arriving at a new duty station. Combined with the demands of raising children, adjusting to new surroundings, and the actual availability of federal jobs, many military spouses have missed consideration for employment or have had job offers withdrawn because they lost eligibility. Reforming the TRICARE system by increasing collaboration between the military and private sector Establishment of high performance military-civilian integrated health delivery systems. The Tillis provision would improve health outcomes and enhance the experience of care for beneficiaries as local military treatment facilities create strong relationships with private sector health systems to form integrated high performance health systems. These formal relationships would foster innovation in military treatment facilities, enhance operational medical force readiness, improve access to specialized medical care, and strengthen care coordination through integration of all activities of these new health delivery systems. Contracts with private sector entities to provide certain health care services at military treatment facilities. The Tillis provision requires the Secretary of Defense to enter into centrally-managed, performance-based contracts with private sector entities to improve the delivery of health care services at military treatment facilities with limited or restricted ability to provide services such as primary care or expanded-hours urgent care. Contracts would be designed to purchase improvement in health outcomes for covered beneficiaries seeking health care services in military treatment facilities. Memoranda of agreements between the Department of Defense and institution of higher education that offer degrees in allopathic or osteopathic medicine. By sharing training facilities, staffing, and material resources, these new academic affiliations could help improve and sustain operational medical force readiness and possibly serve as a productive recruiting grounds for new military physicians. The provision sets the stage for the Department of Defense and Fort Bragg’s Womack Army Medical Center to form a partnership with the Campbell University School of Osteopathic Medicine. ###
12.08.2016	U.S. Senator Gary Peters (D-MI), Steve Daines (R-MT), Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) today applauded Senate passage of their bipartisan provision to help veterans who may have been erroneously given a less than honorable discharge from the military due to negative behavior resulting from mental traumas such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). The Fairness for Veterans amendment was included in the final National Defense Authorization Act conference report, which passed the House of Representatives last week with widespread bipartisan support and now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Congressman Mike Coffman (R-CO) introduced similar legislation and led the effort to pass the provision in the House of Representatives. “So many of our servicemembers have developed PTSD and brain injuries while on active duty, many of whom were undiagnosed until long after their service was completed,” said Senator Tillis. “I am pleased this bipartisan provision is included in the NDAA so we can provide a fair opportunity for brave men and women to regain the benefits they lost as a result of conditions we now know were caused by the effects of the trauma they sustained during their service to our nation.” “Servicemembers suffering from the invisible wounds of war should not lose access to benefits they’ve earned through their service,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve. “I am thrilled that my Fairness for Veterans amendment will be signed into law so that veterans are given the consideration they deserve when petitioning for an upgraded discharge status. This provision will help keep America’s promise to our veterans and ensure they have the support needed as they transition to civilian life.” “The men and women who served our nation in uniform and suffer from the invisible wounds of war should not be penalized with a loss of benefits they’ve earned,” Senator Daines stated. “With today’s vote, veterans who were erroneously discharged due to a side effect related to mental traumas will have the ability to petition to receive their benefits."“Too many service members have lost access to their VA benefits because of mental health injuries that were not recognized when they left the military,” said Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, the ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee Personnel Subcommittee. “This provision will ensure that veterans who have PTSD or have experienced Military Sexual Trauma can more easily have their discharges upgraded more easily so that they can get the care they need and the benefits they earned. I was proud to fight for this provision, I’m very pleased that it passed the Senate with bipartisan support, and I look forward to seeing it signed by the President into law as soon as possible.” “As a retired Marine and a combat veteran myself, I know how stressful combat deployments are and the impact they can often have years after returning to civilian life,” Rep. Coffman said. “Many of our soldiers develop PTSD while deployed in a combat zone and then get kicked out of the military for minor behavioral problems directly linked to their combat-related PTSD. Today’s vote on NDAA is a critical step in ensuring that we take care of those who have served our nation and now need our nation to help them.” A less than honorable discharge, or bad paper discharge, is often given for instances of minor misconduct such as being late to formation and missing appointments – behavior that can be seen in those suffering from PTSD, TBI, and other trauma-related conditions. A less than honorable discharge renders servicemembers ineligible for certain benefits, including Post-9/11 G.I. Bill educational benefits and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) home loans. The provision included in the final NDAA conference report codifies the principles of the 2014 Hagel memo to give liberal consideration to petitions for changes in discharge status to honorable if the servicemember has been diagnosed with PTSD, TBI or related conditions in connection with their military service. Additionally, the amendment extends the policy to PTSD or TBI that is related to military sexual trauma. The legislation has broad support from major veteran groups, including the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, the Military Officers Association of America, the American Legion, Paralyzed Veterans of America, United Soldiers and Sailors of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, and Swords to Plowshares. “To see the most important provision of the Fairness for Veterans Act become law as part of this year’s NDAA is incredibly gratifying” said Kristofer Goldsmith, Assistant Director for Policy & Government Affairs of Vietnam Veterans of America and founder of High Ground Veterans Advocacy. “Senator Peters has shown the value of electing veterans to Congress – and with this law he’s ensured that all future generations of veterans will have PTSD and related illnesses recognized by Discharge Review Boards. Fairness for Vets’ isn’t just a bill—it’s a movement. We’re going to keep working with Senator Peters to ensure that we do everything we can to get every veteran with PTSD the care that they deserve.” "The VFW commend Senator Peters and Rep Coffman on their commitment to get final passage of the bipartisan Fairness For Veterans provision that was included in the Fiscal Year 2017 NDAA,” said Bob Wallace, Adjutant General of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. “Veterans who honorably served but struggled with their behavior due to conditions caused by their time in service, shouldn’t be excluded from receiving VA health care. This provision will ensure these veterans have a second chance at receiving the care they need.” “The Fairness for Veterans provision is an important step towards ensuring our men and women in uniform with a less than honorable discharge as a result of mental health concerns have timely and efficient access to benefits and services,” said Tom Porter, Legislative Director of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. “The IAVA applauds Senators Peters, Daines, Tillis and Gillibrand for their efforts and commitment to addressing this critical issue.” “Thank you Senators Peters, Daines, Tillis and Gillibrand for your leadership and persistence in pursuing justice for servicemembers facing these very real and difficult challenges. Your dedication to America’s servicemembers and veterans will make a difference in the lives of those who have struggled to obtain the recognition and resources they need and deserve,” said Lieutenant General Dana Atkins – U.S. Air Force, Ret., President of the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA). “United Soldiers and Sailors of America is very proud to have been a part of a larger coalition of veteran service organization that advocated for the passage of the Fairness for Veterans Act,” said John P. Yori III, President of the United Soldiers and Sailors of America. “This piece of legislation reflects the ever growing sense of awareness and overwhelming commitment that the American people have to ensuring that our veterans, ALL veterans are treated as our greatest national treasures. I applaud and thank the many other VSO's and Senators Peters, Daines, Tillis and Gillibrand who have remained steadfast in support of the dignity and just rights of all veterans who have served our great nation.” ###
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) welcomed the inclusion of Hurricane Matthew recovery assistance for the state of North Carolina in the Continuing Resolution legislation released by Congressional appropriators. Based on initial assessments from federal agencies, it can be expected that more than $300 million will be allocated to North Carolina for initial immediate needs to assist the recovery effort. In response to the Hurricane Matthew assistance included in the Continuing Resolution, Senator Tillis issued the following statement: “Thousands of North Carolinians have been devastated by historic flooding, with many families losing their homes, businesses owners losing their livelihoods, and farmers losing the land their families have been cultivating for generations. I’m happy that appropriators listened to the concerns expressed by Governor McCrory, myself and members of the North Carolina delegation by providing the state with immediate funds to help start the recovery following the devastation of Hurricane Matthew. It’s important to stress that this is only the beginning of the long recovery process. Over the next several months, I’ll be working closely with Governor-elect Cooper and Congressional appropriators to ensure that North Carolina has the resources it needs to become whole again.” The Hurricane Matthew recovery assistance for North Carolina includes funding for: Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG - DR), which will support community needs including housing, infrastructure and jobs. This funding will be critical for long-term recovery efforts in eastern North Carolina. USDA Emergency Conservation Program (ECP), which will assist with repairing farm roads, restoring fencing, conservation practices and debris removal. Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Emergency Highway Funding, which will help restore damaged roads, clear debris, and reopen critical roadways that were damaged. The Army Corps of Engineers, which will repair damage on Army Corp properties in North Carolina caused by Hurricane Matthew. ###
12.07.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) supported the 21st Century Cures Act, bipartisan legislation that increases funding for Alzheimer’s and cancer research, strengthens and improves important mental health programs, and gives additional money to fight the opioid crisis across the nation. “The Cures Act makes a major national investment in fighting and curing deadly diseases like cancer and Alzheimer’s, and it’s a perfect example of bipartisan legislation where the head and the heart meet,” said Senator Tillis. “In addition to providing funding for Vice President Biden’s cancer moonshoot initiative, the Cures Act also provides resources to combat the nationwide opioid addiction crisis, which has hit communities in North Carolina particularly hard. I’m proud to support this legislation.” The 21st Century Cures Act provides an increase of funding to the National Institute of Health (NIH) for Alzheimer’s research and Vice President Biden’s “Cancer Moonshot” initiative. Vice President Biden visited North Carolina’s Duke Cancer Institute earlier this year and used the Research Triangle area as a model for the nation with successful public-private partnerships and investments that have brought government, industry and academia together to pursue the treatment and ultimate eradication of deadly diseases. The 21st Century Cures agreement will: Help bring safe drugs and devices to market more quickly and at less cost by making needed reforms to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), including: expedited review for breakthrough devices, increased patient involvement in the drug approval process, a streamlined review process for combination products that are both a drug and device, and freedom from red tape for software like fitbits or calorie counting apps. Provide $4.8 billion to National Institutes of Health, including: $1.8 billion for Vice President Biden’s "Cancer Moonshot” to speed cancer research; $1.4 billion for President Obama’s Precision Medicine Initiative to drive research into the genetic, lifestyle and environmental variations of disease; and $1.6 billion for the BRAIN Initiative to improve our understanding of diseases like Alzheimer's and speed diagnosis and treatment. Provide $500 million to the FDA. Provide $1 billion in grants to states to address the opioid crisis. Address the country’s mental health crisis and help the one out of five adult Americans suffering from mental illness receive the care they need. Improve electronic health records for doctors and their patients. ###
12.07.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), delivered a Senate floor speech to provide an update on the Hurricane Matthew recovery effort. Senator Tillis and his staff worked with Congressional appropriators and the North Carolina Congressional delegation to secure more than $300 million in initial recovery assistance for North Carolina, which is contained in the Continuing Resolution that was released last night. Congress is set to vote on the Continuing Resolution this week. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FLOOR SPEECH HERE:
12.05.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “I congratulate Governor-elect Cooper, and look forward to working with him on a wide range of issues critically important to North Carolina, starting with the ongoing Hurricane Matthew recovery effort. I’ve informed Governor-elect Cooper that my staff and I stand ready to assist him in any way during the transition period and serve as a constant resource on federal matters for him and his team. “I also want to thank my good friend Pat McCrory for his dedicated service to our state. Four years ago, his leadership helped ignite North Carolina’s struggling economy, which is now the fastest growing in the entire nation. Our state’s elected officials would be wise to build on this momentum and ensure that North Carolina remains the best state to get a quality education, raise a family, run a business, and retire.” ###
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of retired Marine General James Mattis for Secretary of Defense: “General Mattis is an outstanding choice for Secretary of Defense. Few living military leaders are as widely regarded and highly respected as General Mattis, and few have such a deep understanding of the global threats facing America and our national interests. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I look forward to working with him and the incoming administration to rebuild and modernize our military and support North Carolina’s strategically vital military installations, including Fort Bragg, Camp Lejeune, and Cherry Point.” ###
12.02.2016	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) sent a letter to President Obama, requesting that his administration consider setting a new precedent for presidential transitions by implementing a hiring freeze on all career civilian servant positions, except those in public health or safety. The senators criticized the longstanding practice of “burrowing in,” the conversion of political appointees into career civil servant positions, which has been previously practiced by both Republican and Democratic administrations. A recent Government Accountability Office (GAO) report found that the Obama administration transferred 69 political appointees to career civilian jobs from 2010 to 2015, with 17 of the conversions not receiving prior approval from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), as required. “Not only is ‘burrowing in’ unfair to applicants without an inside connection, it further contributes to the possibility that federal workers may attempt to undermine the policies of the new president,” the Senators wrote. “We respectfully encourage you to consider the aforementioned concerns and also consider the implementation of a hiring freeze on all career civil servant positions, except those that involve public health or safety, until the end of your term. Doing so not only will be a gesture of bipartisanship and goodwill, we hope it also will set a precedent for future presidential transitions.” Full text of the letter is below: Dear President Obama: We first want to state that we, like many Americans, have been encouraged by both your words and your actions to assist the president-elect with the transfer of power and to ensure that he and his administration are prepared to lead the country on day one. Because we know that you are sincere in overseeing a smooth transition, we hope members of your administration will resist the urge to accelerate the hiring of career civil servants who may not share the priorities of the new administration. There is no doubt that thousands of dedicated civil servants faithfully serve in positions across the federal government without regard to who occupies the White House. However, it would be unfair to those employees, and to the American people, if they are joined by others who may not be willing to properly execute the policies of the new administration. Additionally, another activity practiced by both Democratic and Republican administrations in the past is the one called “burrowing in,” when a political appointee moves in, or “converts,” to a career civil servant position. Since early 2001, more than 300 political appointees have completed this transition. Not only is “burrowing in” unfair to applicants without an inside connection, it further contributes to the possibility that federal workers may attempt to undermine the policies of the new president. We respectfully encourage you to consider the aforementioned concerns and also consider the implementation of a hiring freeze on all career civil servant positions, except those that involve public health or safety, until the end of your term. Doing so not only will be a gesture of bipartisanship and goodwill, we hope it also will set a precedent for future presidential transitions. Mr. President, thank you again for your dedicated service to our great nation. Sincerely, Senator Ron Johnson, Chairman, Committee on Homeland and Governmental Affairs Senator Thom Tillis ###
12.01.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senator Chris Coons (D-DE) at the Washington Post Juvenile Justice Summit for a discussion about juvenile justice reform and sentencing reform. Senator Tillis stressed the need for members of the Senate to work past the far-right and far-left in order to pass criminal justice reform legislation. In 2011, as North Carolina Speaker of the House, Tillis spearheaded the passage of the Justice Reinvestment Act, sweeping criminal justice reform legislation. The law has resulted in a reduction in North Carolina’s prison population and a significant decrease in the recidivism rate. Then-Speaker Tillis also presided over the passage of several juvenile justice reforms, including allowing a juvenile’s criminal record to be expunged of non-violent offenses, limiting detention for certain offenses, and eliminating mandatory life sentences without parole for youth. In the Senate, Tillis has continued his advocacy for criminal and juvenile justice reform. He is a co-sponsor of the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, which would recalibrate prison sentences for certain non-violent drug offenders while also targeting violent criminals and adding two new mandatory minimum sentences. The legislation also seeks to reduce recidivism through education, job training, drug rehabilitation, and faith-based programs. Watch the discussion here. Senator Tillis on the federal government’s role for criminal justice reform (7:10)“What we want to do is not provide a one size fits all, we have to get to a point where we recognize there are very differing needs within the communities. We need to start solving the problem.” Senator Tillis on current criminal justice reform legislation (16:40)“This is a bill that is only talking about the release of non-violent offenders and ensures the judge that actually issued the first sentence has the opportunity to review it based on circumstances at that time. This is not a bill about letting murderers go or making our society less safe. It’s a bill that could potentially get someone released sooner so that they would be less likely to commit a crime, save money in the judicial system, and make that transformational opportunity happen for a number of people…It is time to tell the far-left and the far-right to get productive or get out of the way, because we need to solve this problem.” Senator Tillis on the need to pass criminal justice reform (24:50)“This is a critically important issue and solvable problem. We need people to step up and understand the political courage to say it is time to solve this problem.” ###
11.21.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after four police officers were shot on Sunday in separate incidents, including Detective Benjamin Marconi of the San Antonio Police Department who passed away from his injuries: “My deepest condolences go out to the families and communities affected by these horrific acts of violence,” said Senator Tillis. “The cowardly targeting of the very men and women who protect our communities cannot be tolerated. For as long as I am in the United States Senate, I will continue to support efforts like the Back the Blue Act to help protect police officers and increase the penalties for criminals who target them.” Earlier this year, Senator Tillis joined Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) to introduce the Back the Blue Act, legislation that would increase penalties against violent criminals who intentionally target law enforcement officers, provide new tools to help law enforcement protect themselves, and open up grant funding to strengthen relationships between law enforcement and their communities. ###
11.18.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on President-elect Trump’s nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) for Attorney General: “Over the last two years, I’ve had the pleasure of calling Senator Sessions my friend and colleague. While Senator Sessions and I certainly don’t agree on the specifics of every major issue, including immigration reform and criminal justice reform, he always expresses our policy differences in the form of productive and gracious exchanges of ideas. From my experience working with him on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, I consider him to be hands-down one of the fairest and most accessible chairmen of any congressional committee. “These are some of the reasons Senator Sessions is so well-liked by his colleagues, and respected by leaders of both parties. As Attorney General, he will follow the rule of law, be accessible, and address the organizational and accountability issues plaguing the Department of Justice, which are qualities and priorities that have unfortunately been missing from the department’s leadership over the last eight years.” ###
11.18.2016	This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored the American Law Enforcement Heroes Act, legislation introduced by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) that will prioritize the U.S. Department of Justice COPS grant applications of law enforcement agencies who use that funding to hire veterans. This legislation is also cosponsored by U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and is endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, the Major County Sheriffs’ Association and the Veterans of Foreign Wars. “It’s no surprise that following years of defending our nation in uniform, many veterans seek to continue their service by working as law enforcement officers in their local communities,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m proud to join this bipartisan effort to support our brave veterans and strengthen local law enforcement by ensuring they are represented by the very best men and women our nation has to offer.” “The experience and sacrifice of our military service members has equipped them with valuable skills that can keep our community safe,” said Senator Cornyn. “Encouraging state and local governments to hire veterans will both bolster the strength of our law enforcement, and help our heroes transition from military service into civilian life.” “Our young men and women in uniform gain invaluable skills that they should be able to use to secure a good job when they return home,” said Senator Klobuchar. “By encouraging local and state governments to hire veterans as law enforcement officers, we can help veterans get the jobs they deserve and help make our communities safer, too.” “Our military veterans bravely volunteered to protect and serve our nation on the battlefield, so it is important to welcome those who want to continue their service at home in our communities as law enforcement officers,” said Senator Grassley. “This bill encourages state and local law enforcement agencies that receive federal grants to hire officers to prioritize veterans – many of whom already have some training and experience. Our military heroes, our communities and our country all benefit from this bipartisan effort.” “Our men and women in uniform have training and experience that makes them ideal candidates for careers in law enforcement. By incentivizing state and local governments to hire veterans as law enforcement, this bipartisan legislation is a win-win,” said Senator Blumenthal. “It will help ease veterans’ transition from military service to civilian life while using their valuable skills to keep our communities safe.”
11.17.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered a Senate floor speech to bring attention the human and economic damage caused by Hurricane Matthew and the need for Congress to help North Carolina during the recovery process. Senator Tillis spoke about his experience touring parts of North Carolina that were devastated by Hurricane Matthew and listening to the stories of victims who have had their lives negatively impacted. Days after Hurricane Matthew made landfall in North Carolina, Senator Tillis surveyed property and infrastructure damage with N.C. Agriculture Commissioner Steve Troxler. Senator Tillis and his staff also volunteered a day with the American Red Cross in Wallace and Rose Hill, assisting with meal preparation and relief efforts for Hurricane Matthew victims. Last week, Senator Tillis visited Fayetteville where he toured hurricane-damaged neighborhoods with Mayor Nat Robertson, visited a Habitat for Humanity Village, and met with FEMA officials. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FULL SPEECH HERE. Tillis on the devastation of Hurricane Matthew:“I hope the family and friends of all the victims know that millions of North Carolinians and people across the nation are praying for them and their recovery. The loss of life alone was devastating but that is not the total story. Hurricane Matthew was a massive storm. It was 1000-year rainfall event and a 500-year flood event for Eastern North Carolina. Thousands of people were forced to evacuate their homes and move into shelters. Many are still in temporary housing and thousands of homes are not habitable. The storm flooded areas that were well outside of 100-year flood plains so many home owners did not have flood insurance.” [WATCH HERE] Tillis on the aftermath of Hurricane Matthew:“Matthew has been a life-changing event for many North Carolinians. Relatives and friends who lost a loved one in the flooding. Families who lost their homes. Small business owners who no longer have a place to work and employ others. Farmers who have watched their once fertile land become unproductive. I share these stories because North Carolina will need help.” [WATCH HERE] Tillis’ message to North Carolinians:“More than anything else I want to make sure the victims of this storm know that they have people working for them. We are going to make sure this great body and this nation come to their aid in this time of crisis.” [WATCH HERE] ###
11.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in advance of Veterans Day this Friday: “On this Veterans Day, please join me to reflect on the sacrifice and the service of the men and women who have traveled anywhere at a moment’s notice to defend our freedom and keep us safe. It’s because of those who are willing to lay down their lives to protect our freedoms that we live in the greatest nation on Earth.” WATCH THE VIDEO HERE. ###
11.09.2016	HUNTERSVILLE, N.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement regarding the 2016 presidential election: “I congratulate Donald Trump and Mike Pence, as well as all other leaders in North Carolina and throughout the nation who earned hard-fought victories last night. I also congratulate my good friend Senator Richard Burr and look forward to continuing to work with him on behalf of each and every North Carolinian in the Senate. “Our nation has just endured the toughest and most bitter presidential election in recent memory. On many occasions, the tone and tenor on both sides were regrettable. Fortunately, the time for campaigning has finally come to an end. What we desperately need right now is strong, compassionate leadership that will unite the American people and begin to heal the deep partisan fissures that exist in our country. I am optimistic that we can and will build a stronger and more prosperous America.” ###
10.23.2016	HUNTERSVILLE, N.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in honor of the U.S. servicemembers who lost their lives in the Beirut barracks bombings on October 23, 1983: “Today, we should all take a moment to remember and honor the 241 brave servicemembers who were killed by the terrorist bombings of the Marine Corps compound in Beirut 33 years ago. A majority of those killed and injured were Marines stationed at Camp Lejeune. “These heroes represent the best of America – young men and women who volunteered to answer the call of duty by defending our nation in one of the most dangerous parts of the world, ultimately making the ultimate sacrifice. “As we honor our brave Marines and soldiers who lost their lives and were injured this horrible attack, we must reaffirm our commitment to ensure justice is served for all victims and their families, including holding Iran and all other state sponsors of terrorism accountable for their actions.” ###
10.23.2016	WILMINGTON, N.C. – In the Weekly Republican Address, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) addresses the continuing consequences of Obamacare and how it is impacting families across North Carolina. “[T]here is now one – just one – insurer left on the Obamacare exchange in 95 out of 100 of our counties. To make matters worse, those same North Carolina families will also be hit with a nearly 25 percent premium increase hike next year.” A full transcript of the address follows: “Hi, I’m Thom Tillis, and I’m proud to be a Senator from the great state of North Carolina. “Earlier this week, we heard President Obama deliver a speech to update the American people on his health care law, Obamacare. Rather than admit Obamacare isn’t working, the president painted a rosy picture that doesn’t match the reality experienced by millions of Americans. It’s certainly not what we’re seeing here in North Carolina with the latest wave of premium increases and policy cancellations. Even President Bill Clinton had to admit that the consequences of Obamacare are, in his words, ‘the craziest thing in the world.’ “Just a few years ago, President Obama repeatedly promised families that they would be able to keep their health care plans if they liked them. We all know that wasn’t true, as millions of Americans received cancellation notices, forcing them to pick a new plan and in many cases a new doctor. He also promised that Obamacare would lower insurance premiums by some $2,500 a year. Instead, the premiums have increased by an average of nearly $5,000 a year since before the law was enacted. I agree with President Bill Clinton, the reality of Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world. “Since I became a Senator in 2015, my office has been inundated by countless letters, emails, and calls from North Carolinians telling us how Obamacare has been a nightmare for them and their families. “One such letter came from a couple who are life-long small business owners and they’re ready to retire. They explained to me that this year, their premium under Obamacare jumped to $1,400 a month, forcing them to forgo health insurance all together for the first time in their lives. “I received another letter from a father of a family of four. He and his wife both work full-time and they’re already gone through their entire savings to make ends meet during this Great Recession. He’s seen his family’s premiums go up [from] $600 a month before Obamacare was signed into law [to] $1,700 a month this year. “These stories are heartbreaking, the tragedy is how common they are in communities across North Carolina. Many families haven’t seen the worst of Obamacare yet. Unfortunately right now, at least 1.4 million Americans – including more than a quarter of a million North Carolinians – are receiving cancellation notices informing them that they will lose the healthcare plans they purchased under Obamacare. That’s a consequence of insurers dropping out of the program at an alarming rate. “In North Carolina, there is now one – just one – insurer left on the Obamacare exchange in 95 out of 100 of our counties. To make matters worse, those same North Carolina families will also be hit with a nearly 25 percent premium increase hike next year. “Unfortunately, instead of working across the aisle to fix this mess, President Obama and congressional Democrats are in denial. In fact, they’re doubling-down on their support for this failed law. Their solution is a so-called public option, which will eventually lead to a single-payer, government-run system that would put your family’s health care in the control of unelected bureaucrats in Washington. In other words, their solution to a failed government plan, is more government plans! “Republicans in Congress have taken a much different approach. We’ve been listening to the frustration felt by the American people. “Led by members like North Carolina Senator Richard Burr, we’re pursuing commonsense reforms to replace Obamacare. Reforms that put health care decisions back into the hands of patients and doctors. Our reforms will allow for families to get the insurance coverage that meets their needs. “Patient-centered reforms, like Richard Burr’s, would lower health costs while helping protect Americans with preexisting conditions, without the need for costly government mandates. Americans have a stark choice to make to determine the future of health care in our country. “We can continue down the path created by President Obama and expand Obamacare, leading to fewer choices, and even higher premiums and deductibles. Or we can address what we already know: Obamacare is broken. So let’s instead implement a commonsense solution that will result in higher quality healthcare, more choices, and lower costs. “The heartaches of Obamacare don’t have to be the norm. There’s a better way to improve and modernize our nation’s health care system, and only Republicans are offering that alternative. “Thank you for your time, and may God bless you and continue to bless the United States of America.” ###
10.17.2016	The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) today granted additional flexibility to North Carolina taxpayers impacted by Hurricane Matthew after Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urging him to extend the quarterly tax filing deadline for residents affected by the devastating storm. Hurricane Matthew victims in many North Carolina counties now have until March 15, 2017, to file certain individual and business tax returns. “This is welcome news for the North Carolina taxpayers who have been impacted by this devastating storm,” said Senator Burr. “I am so glad that the IRS upheld my request to give this relief to North Carolinians, so they can begin to rebuild without worrying about the impending tax deadline.” “Hurricane Matthew and the subsequent flooding have taken a tremendous toll on North Carolinians, leaving many without a livable home or place of business,” said Senator Tillis. “That’s why Senator Burr and I urged the IRS to extend the quarterly tax filing deadline, and I’m happy they have decided to grant this relief to North Carolinians affected by Hurricane Matthew.” The following North Carolina counties are eligible for this relief: Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Duplin, Edgecombe, Gates, Greene, Harnett, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lenoir, Martin, Nash, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Pitt, Robeson, Sampson, Tyrrell, Washington, Wayne, and Wilson In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis wrote: “As we have witnessed firsthand by visiting these areas, the disaster in North Carolina is still ongoing, making it very difficult to begin the recovery process or fully assess the damages inflicted on our state. Many taxpayers in these areas are facing a tax filing deadline this Monday, October 17, and the threat of onerous penalties if they do not meet it. The flooding and effects of Hurricane Matthew make the task of meeting the deadlines nearly impossible for them. We ask that you take immediate action to use the authority available in statute to provide relief to these taxpayers in North Carolina as soon as possible.” The full text of the letter can be viewed online here. For additional information from the IRS, click here. ###
10.15.2016	Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew urging him to extend the quarterly tax filing deadline for North Carolina residents affected by Hurricane Matthew. In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis write: “As we have witnessed firsthand by visiting these areas, the disaster in North Carolina is still ongoing, making it very difficult to begin the recovery process or fully assess the damages inflicted on our state. Many taxpayers in these areas are facing a tax filing deadline this Monday, October 17, and the threat of onerous penalties if they do not meet it. The flooding and effects of Hurricane Matthew make the task of meeting the deadlines nearly impossible for them. We ask that you take immediate action to use the authority available in statute to provide relief to these taxpayers in North Carolina as soon as possible.” The full text of the letter is below and can be viewed online here. October 15, 2016 The Honorable Jack Lew Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W. Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Lew, As United States Senators from North Carolina, we write to you concerning tax filing deadline postponements for the thousands of North Carolina taxpayers affected by Hurricane Matthew. We appreciate the Department’s and the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) efforts so far to grant relief to certain counties. As you may know, our offices have been in contact with your Department regarding our belief that the law, specifically 26 U.S.C. 7508A, grants you the authority to postpone certain tax deadlines by reason of a Presidentially declared disaster. The statute provides that postponements can be granted to “a taxpayer determined by the Secretary to be affected by a federally declared disaster…” A “federally declared disaster” is defined by 26 U.S.C. 165(i)(5) as “any disaster subsequently determined by the President of the United States to warrant assistance by the Federal Government under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.” As of October 15, a total of 36 North Carolina counties have been declared a major disaster area by the President under the Stafford Act, with 23 of those counties being granted designations for both Individual and Public Assistance. As of now, the Treasury Department and the IRS have only granted filing extensions to those taxpayers in counties with Individual Assistant (IA) designations. We believe that both statute and regulation (26 CFR 301.7508A-1) provide you with the authority to issue extensions for all 36 counties in North Carolina that the President has declared as federal disaster areas, and any additional counties the President may declare in the future. As we have witnessed firsthand by visiting these areas, the disaster in North Carolina is still ongoing, making it very difficult to begin the recovery process or fully assess the damages inflicted on our state. Many taxpayers in these areas are facing a tax filing deadline this Monday, October 17, and the threat of onerous penalties if they do not meet it. The flooding and effects of Hurricane Matthew make the task of meeting the deadlines nearly impossible for them. We ask that you take immediate action to use the authority available in statute to provide relief to these taxpayers in North Carolina as soon as possible. ###
10.13.2016	U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and 17 of his colleagues sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Gen. Joseph Dunford regarding their recent testimony in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. The senators raise serious concerns regarding the Obama Administration’s failure to notify top United States military officials about its $1.7 billion cash ransom payment to the Islamic Republic of Iran, which is designated by the State Department as a state sponsor of terrorism. Following reports that Iran has funneled this money into its military budget, the senators also note that the payment may further embolden Iran, resulting in our troops and allies confronting more lethal and better-equipped adversaries. “While we understand that other agencies and departments would be in the lead for such a transaction, we are deeply concerned that President Obama and the rest of the administration did not think it was necessary to even notify the Secretary of Defense or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that the United States was about to provide the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism with $1.7 billion in cash,” the Senators wrote. “It seems clear that the Obama administration’s injection of substantial, liquid financial resources into Iran’s military budget also has significant and obvious implications for America’s national security interests and required military posture in the Middle East.” In addition to Tillis, the letter was signed by Senators Ted Cruz (R-TX), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Susan Collins (R-ME), Tom Cotton (R-AR), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), David Perdue (R-GA), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Michael Rounds (R-SD), Marco Rubio (R-FL), David Vitter (R-LA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), and James Lankford (R-OK). Read the full text of the letter below or download it here. October 11, 2016 The Honorable Ashton B. CarterSecretary of Defense1000 Defense PentagonWashington, DC 20301 General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr.Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff9999 Joint Staff Pentagon, Room 2D920Washington, DC 20319 Dear Secretary Carter and General Dunford: Thank you for your testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday, September 22, 2016. We appreciate your willingness to share your views on the significant challenges our nation faces around the globe, and we are writing to follow up on the discussion regarding the Islamic Republic of Iran. As you know, earlier this year, the administration provided $1.7 billion in cash to Iran. As was raised in the hearing, there are reports that Iran has funneled this money into its military budget. The plain purpose of transferring the payment in cash to Tehran was to circumvent the effects of U.S. and international financial sanctions. Iran is almost certainly using this windfall to skirt the arms embargo and illicitly purchase weapons for the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), the terrorist organization Hezbollah, and/or the murderous Assad regime in Syria. We are deeply concerned that this large infusion of U.S. taxpayer-funded cash into the coffers of the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism is going to further embolden Iran and result in our troops and our allies confronting more lethal and better equipped adversaries and potential adversaries. General Dunford, in your testimony you referred to this possibility as “troubling.” You also testified that Iran will be “more effective” in spreading malign influence with the additional funds and said that, “…I would prefer that we not provide additional resources to Iran.” In addition, you referred to the decision as “political,” and noted that regarding the payment being a ransom, you have “only read open source reporting on that.” When discussing the nature and potential consequences of the payment, Secretary Carter, you informed us that the Pentagon had not been consulted in the decision-making process, testifying that, “I don’t know all the details of it, and the Chairman and I were not involved in that. It is a decision that was taken by the law enforcement and the diplomatic community, and I would have to refer you there.” While we understand that other agencies and departments would be in the lead for such a transaction, we are deeply concerned that President Obama and the rest of the administration did not think it was necessary to even notify the Secretary of Defense or the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff that the United States was about to provide the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism with $1.7 billion in cash. It seems clear that the Obama administration’s injection of substantial, liquid financial resources into Iran’s military budget also has significant and obvious implications for America’s national security interests and required military posture in the Middle East. These additional funds for Iran’s military budget are troubling especially in light of the increasingly belligerent behavior of Tehran since the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action went into effect. In addition to supporting Hezbollah and Assad, since last January, Iran has illegally detained ten American sailors, repeatedly tested ballistic missiles, incessantly harassed U.S. naval vessels, and unjustly imprisoned American citizens. In light of these facts, we respectfully ask that you submit written answers to the questions below: 1. Is it the Department of Defense’s assessment that the $1.7 billion in cash the administration provided to Iran has been primarily devoted to Iran’s military budget? 2. How does the Department of Defense assess that Iran will spend these additional military resources? 3. What are the tactical, operational, or strategic implications for the United States of these additional resources, and how does the Department of Defense plan to respond? 4. Have any of the United States’ Middle East regional partners expressed concern to you regarding Iran’s increasing belligerence, as well as Tehran’s growing military investment? 5. Do you see a correlation between the increased financial resources now available to Iran and the increase in its belligerent activities? 6. When decisions of this nature are made in the future, do you think it would be helpful for other entities of the executive branch, including the White House and National Security Council, to consult the Defense Department beforehand? Thank you both for your distinguished service to our country. We appreciate your assistance regarding this important matter, and we would appreciate a response by October 29. Sincerely, Senator Thom TillisSenator Ted CruzSenator Kelly AyotteSenator Shelley Moore CapitoSenator Susan M. CollinsSenator Tom CottonSenator Cory GardnerSenator Orrin HatchSenator James M. InhofeSenator Johnny IsaksonSenator Mark KirkSenator James LankfordSenator David PerdueSenator Pat RobertsSenator M. Michael RoundsSenator Marco RubioSenator David VitterSenator Roger F. Wicker ###
10.13.2016	
10.09.2016	Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate in support of Governor Pat McCrory’s request for President Obama to declare an expedited Major Disaster for the state of North Carolina in the aftermath of hurricane Matthew. In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis write: “This disaster is still ongoing and has forced nearly 5,000 residents into shelters, necessitated over 1,000 swift water rescues, and left nearly 800,000 North Carolinians without power. We would like to thank you for FEMA’s efforts prior to and during this disaster, including the President’s October 7, 2016 Emergency Declaration for the state. We again respectfully ask that the President make the requested Major Disaster declaration, consistent with the intended purposes of FEMA and the federal Stafford Act. ” The full text of the letter is below and can be viewed online here. October 9, 2016The Honorable W. Craig Fugate Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate, As United States Senators from North Carolina, we write in support of Governor Pat McCrory’s request that the President declare an expedited Major Disaster for the State of North Carolina under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act for events occurring since October 4, 2016, and which are still occurring. The expedited Major Disaster Declaration is for both individual assistance and public assistance, including direct federal assistance for the following North Carolina counties: Alamance, Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden, Carteret, Caswell, Chatham, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Davie, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Forsyth, Franklin, Gates, Granville, Greene, Guilford, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Martin, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pasquotank, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Randolph, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Sampson, Scotland, Stokes, Surry, Tyrrell, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Wilson and Yadkin. We urge the President to approve this request as soon as possible to assist the state and these counties continued operations to protect life and property, and in the near future begin the recovery process. As the Governor noted in his request, due to the “unusual severity and magnitude” of the damage from Hurricane Matthew, the request meets the requirements of 44 C.F.R 206.36(d) for the expedited processing of the request. This disaster is still ongoing and has forced nearly 5,000 residents into shelters, necessitated over 1,000 swift water rescues, and left nearly 800,000 North Carolinians without power. We would like to thank you for FEMA’s efforts prior to and during this disaster, including the President’s October 7, 2016 Emergency Declaration for the state. We again respectfully ask that the President make the requested Major Disaster declaration, consistent with the intended purposes of FEMA and the federal Stafford Act. ###
10.07.2016	The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act will now protect living eugenics victims receiving compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal safety net benefits. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Obama signed S. 1698, the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act into law, which will help protect living eugenics victims receiving compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal safety net programs such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, and SSI-Disabled. The legislation was authored by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Carper (D-DE), and co-sponsored by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Mark Warner (D-VA), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA). Without this law, eugenics victims who receive compensation payments could have had their federal safety net benefits reduced or their eligibility eliminated altogether. State-run eugenics and compulsory sterilization laws victimized more than 60,000 Americans in 33 states from the 1920s to the 1970s. State governments often targeted specific groups for sterilization, including unmarried women, African-Americans, and children from poor families. In 2013, Tillis, then the North Carolina Speaker of the House, partnered with State Rep. Larry Womble to break through longstanding political gridlock in order to make North Carolina the first state in the nation to compensate the victims of its state-run eugenics program. In 2014, more than 200 North Carolina victims were awarded their first compensation payment of approximately $20,000 each. Recently, victims received their second eugenics compensation payment, worth an additional $15,000 each. Last year, Virginia became the second state to pass legislation compensating the victims of a state-run eugenics program. Virginia will award $25,000 to each individual who was involuntarily sterilized and is still alive as of February 1, 2015. “The victims of North Carolina’s eugenics program have already endured so much throughout their lives, and this law will help protect them by ensuring their restitution payments will not negatively impact their eligibility for federal safety net benefits,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I also hope this law will increase the American public’s awareness of a dark and shameful chapter in our nation’s history that resulted in the sterilization of American citizens against their will. The subsequent fight for justice would not have been possible without the unrelenting activism of leaders like former state Rep. Larry Womble. We are better as a people, a state and a nation for acknowledging the sins of the past and fighting for justice on behalf of the victims.” “People who’ve been subjected to horrifying sterilization practices as a result of misguided eugenics programs have already had to live with unfathomable loss and hardship,” said Senator Tom Carper. “These individuals shouldn’t be penalized for compensation funds that they have received for their suffering, especially because it can never repair the pain they’ve had to endure. I’m proud that Congress came together across party lines to approve this important effort to ensure that no person loses important federal benefits because they received this type of compensation.” ###
10.05.2016	WASHINGTON — North Carolina Senators Richard Burr and Thom Tillis today sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate urging the agency to grant the State of North Carolina’s request for federal emergency assistance before Hurricane Matthew begins to affect NC this weekend. In their letter, Senators Burr and Tillis write: “Over the last month the state has faced a strain on its resources due to the Colonial Pipeline leak, protests in Charlotte, and flooding across central and northeastern North Carolina. Many communities are only now beginning to assess the damage and begin the recovery efforts associated with the recent flooding. Hurricane Matthew poses an imminent threat to the State of North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources…” Current forecasts predict that Hurricane Matthew will begin to affect the North Carolina coast on Saturday. North Carolina Emergency Management recommends that North Carolinians formulate a safety plan and prepare an emergency preparedness kit as soon as possible. The full text of the letter is below and can be viewed online here. October 5, 2016 The Honorable W. Craig FugateAdministratorFederal Emergency Management Agency500 C Street S.W.Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate, As United States Senators from North Carolina, we support Governor Pat McCrory’s request for an Emergency Declaration under Section 501(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act. On October 3, 2016, the State declared a state of emergency in 66 North Carolina counties including, Alamance, Anson, Beaufort, Bertie, Bladen, Brunswick, Camden-Pasquotank, Carteret, Caswell, Chatham, Chowan, Columbus, Craven, Cumberland, Currituck, Dare, Davidson, Davie, Duplin, Durham, Edgecombe, Forsyth, Franklin, Gates, Granville, Greene, Guilford, Halifax, Harnett, Hertford, Hoke, Hyde, Johnston, Jones, Lee, Lenoir, Martin, Montgomery, Moore, Nash, New Hanover, Northampton, Onslow, Orange, Pamlico, Pender, Perquimans, Person, Pitt, Randolph, Richmond, Robeson, Rockingham, Sampson, Scotland, Stokes, Surry, Tyrrell, Vance, Wake, Warren, Washington, Wayne, Wilson and Yadkin. We urge you to approve this request as soon as possible to assist the state and these counties as they prepare for the approach of Hurricane Matthew as soon as possible. Over the last month the state has faced a strain on its resources due to the Colonial Pipeline leak, protests in Charlotte, and flooding across central and northeastern North Carolina. Many communities are only now beginning to assess the damage and begin the recovery efforts associated with the recent flooding. Hurricane Matthew poses an imminent threat to the State of North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources. We would also like to commend your agency for establishing an Incident Support Base at Ft. Bragg to pre-position federal resources ahead of the storm. An emergency declaration will provide the needed assistance to the State and local communities to allow them to properly prepare for the effects of Hurricane Matthew. We respectfully request that you make the requested declaration to enable North Carolina to prepare for the potential disaster, consistent with the intended purposes of Federal Emergency Management Agency and the federal Stafford Act. ###
10.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released a video explaining what motivated him to pursue eugenics compensation legislation in North Carolina, and what prompted him to introduce federal legislation to protect the compensation payments of eugenics victims in North Carolina. WATCH THE VIDEO HERE: In the video, Senator Tillis also calls on county government in North Carolina to offer restitution payments to the victims of county-run sterilization programs that were separate from the Eugenics Board of North Carolina. In 2013, Tillis, then North Carolina Speaker of the House, partnered with Rep. Larry Womble to make North Carolina the first state in the nation to create a compensation fund for the victims of its state-run eugenics program. The Eugenics Board of North Carolina sterilized thousands of citizens from the 1920s to the 1970s, many against their will. In 2014, more than 200 living North Carolina victims were awarded their first compensation payment of approximately $20,000 each. Months after Tillis was sworn in as U.S. Senator in 2015, he introduced the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act, legislation that will assist eugenics victims receiving compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal safety net programs. Without this legislation, many eugenics victims receiving compensation payments could see their federal safety net benefits reduced or their eligibility eliminated altogether. Tillis’ bill passed unanimously in the Senate last year and the House last month. It will soon be signed into law by President Obama. Senator Tillis on passing eugenics compensation legislation as North Carolina House Speaker, the first law of its kind to compensate eugenics victims: “What we found out long before I was Speaker of the House was that there were a number of people in leadership who were just not prepared to face up to reality that the state had done something wrong. They never picked up the bill that [State Rep.] Larry Womble had been wanting to move for several years. We decided that we were going to take the hits and do the right thing for the victims. It was not easy. We had opposition from both sides, some saying we shouldn’t do it at all, others saying we weren’t doing enough. But those had been the arguments that had prevented it from happening in the past, and we decided that we were going to push through and do the right thing for the victims.” Senator Tillis on why he introduced The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act: “We found out that if we did not change the federal law, the restitution payments that the state made to the victims could potentially be taken away by the federal government. We got unanimous support out of the Senate and we recently passed it out of the House, and it’s going to the President’s desk. It will make sure that the restitution payment is solely the victims’ and not something that will be paid back to the federal government.” Senator Tillis on why county governments in North Carolina should offer restitution to victims who were forcibly sterilized by county governments: “Some of the challenges that we’ve gotten to the restitution bill for eugenics victims relates to a different area where forced sterilizations occurred; they were at the local level. They weren’t ordered by the state. What I’m encouraging local governments in North Carolina to do is look at programs that may have been under local control and see if they can implement policies that allow victims of forced sterilization at a local level to receive restitution payments similar to what those who were ordered by the eugenics board will receive. It’s difficult with the paperwork, a number of other things that will have to be used to validate claims, but I think it’s worth looking at, trying to do the right thing for more people if we can implement these kinds of programs at a county level.” ###
10.05.2016	Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued statements in response to the release of Office of Inspector General (OIG) reports detailing radiology exam backlogs and wait time manipulation at the VA medical facility in Salisbury, North Carolina. This Inspector General report uncovered the following troubling findings about radiology care: A backlog of 3,300 radiology exams in 2014. Failure to effectively manage radiology workload and carry out timely exams. 15 patients died while waiting for exams. This Inspector General report makes the following findings about wait time manipulation: Schedulers began falsifying wait time reports in 2007. More than half the schedulers interviewed were routinely fixing patient appointments at the request of their supervisors. The Salisbury VA was engaged in the same fraudulent activity that the scandal at the Phoenix VA showed to be systemic across the entire VA. “It is unacceptable that North Carolina veterans are still waiting for medical care,” said Senator Burr. “No veteran should be left waiting for months to receive medical care, and under the Choice program, they do not have to. It’s clear that the VA was not effectively using the Choice program to help veterans receive radiological exams in an acceptable time frame and that wait time data was being falsified. I’m committed to doing whatever it takes to ensure that our veterans get the care they need. I will keep fighting for my legislation to improve the Veterans Choice program. America made a promise to our men and women in uniform, and I will keep that promise.” “The findings of today’s report are profoundly disturbing,” said Senator Tillis. “This is not the way the VA should be treating the men and women who risked everything in service to our country. My office has assisted many veterans in the Charlotte area who have had difficulty getting timely appointments at the Salisbury VA Medical Center, and the IG report confirms the worst of our suspicions. This conduct at the VA would not be tolerated in the private sector, and the perpetrators would be subject to both civil and criminal penalty. I will continue to work with Senator Burr to pursue legislation that will provide more accessible healthcare services to our brave veterans and will make it easier for the VA to fire bad actors who abuse their positions.” ###
10.04.2016	Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Bob Casey (D-PA), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Chris Murphy (D-CT) sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Senate and House Appropriations Committee urging funding to be included in the final version of the FY 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations Act to reverse cuts to reimbursement rates for Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) treatment for military children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) to ensure they can continue to receive care under TRICARE. TRICARE is a managed health care program for active duty, reserve component and retired members of the uniformed services, their families, and survivors. TRICARE began a demonstration project last year to provide a single, uniform benefit to the estimated 26,000 TRICARE beneficiaries with ASD. However, in April, TRICARE adjusted the reimbursement rates to providers of ABA therapy threatening a severe reduction in access to crucial ABA services for dependents with ASD. The Senators called on the committees to ensure the final appropriations for the Department of Defense include a reversal in the TRICARE cuts to mirror this reversal in the House and Senate National Defense Authorization Act bills. “ABA therapy is an intensive one-on-one therapy usually conducted at the home of the recipient. One of the objectives of the demonstration program was to provide a single, uniform benefit to the estimated 26,000 TRICARE beneficiaries with ASD, and approximately 40% of eligible beneficiaries receive ABA services under this program,” the Senators wrote. “We request that you include $32 million in the final appropriations bill that provides funding for the Department of Defense for FY 2017. These funds will ensure that military children with ASD in need of therapy can obtain the services they and their families deserve.” Read the full text of the letter below or download it here. October 3, 2016 Dear Chairmen Cochran and Rogers and Ranking Members Mikulski and Lowey: We urge you to include funding in the final version of the FY 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 5293) that would allow military children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) to continue receiving Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) treatment under TRICARE. Currently, TRICARE beneficiaries with ASD receive ABA therapy under the autism care demonstration program, which began on July 25, 2014 and is slated to end on December 31, 2016. ABA therapy is an intensive one-on-one therapy usually conducted at the home of the recipient. One of the objectives of the demonstration program was to provide a single, uniform benefit to the estimated 26,000 TRICARE beneficiaries with ASD, and approximately 40% of eligible beneficiaries receive ABA services under this program. Effective April 1, 2016, the Defense Health Agency (DHA) adjusted TRICARE reimbursement rates to providers of ABA therapy. These new reimbursement rates were based on two DHA-commissioned studies, by RAND Corporation and Kennell and Associates, and adjusted for localities. Although some geographic areas, such as large metropolitan areas, saw an increase in reimbursement rates, many locations saw dramatic cuts. Military bases, many of which are located in suburban or rural areas, witnessed substantial decreases in reimbursement rates. These cuts were imposed despite indications from various parts of the country that there were ABA provider shortages, and in some locations, no providers at all. Both before and since the April 1 rate cuts, military families are confronting ABA provider shortages in Washington State, Fort Hood and Fort Bliss, TX; Fort Riley and Fort Leavenworth, KS; Wright Patterson AFB, OH; Fort Bragg, NC; Fort Benning, GA; and Fort Campbell, KY. Both military families and providers are displeased with these reduced reimbursement rates. Furthermore, a large group of stakeholders have also stated their opposition to DHA’s cuts for ABA services for military children, including Autism Speaks, Easter Seals, the National Military Family Association, the TRICARE for Kids Coalition, Military Officer’s Association, Children’s Hospital Association, and the San Diego Military Advisory Council. In light of these cuts to reimbursement rates and associated shortages of providers, an amendment to H.R. 5293 was proposed and adopted by voice vote on the House Floor, providing $32 million to reverse the cuts in reimbursement rates to providers of ABA services to military dependents with ASD that the DHA implemented on April 1, 2016. Of note, both the House and Senate versions of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2017 included language that would reinstate the reimbursement rates to ABA providers that were in effect as of March 31, 2016. In addition to supporting the will of Congress, the $32 million in appropriations would help preserve the success of the autism care demonstration program. We request that you include $32 million in the final appropriations bill that provides funding for the Department of Defense for FY 2017. These funds will ensure that military children with ASD in need of therapy can obtain the services they and their families deserve. Sincerely, Senator Kirsten GillibrandSenator Thom TillisSenator Robert P. Casey, Jr. Senator Roger F. WickerSenator Amy KlobucharSenator Christopher S. Murphy ###
10.03.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of legendary ABC11 news anchor Larry Stogner: “Larry Stogner was a North Carolina news legend who residents of the Triangle trusted every night for decades. While Larry will be long remembered for being at the top of the journalism profession, he will also be remembered for his courageous fight against ALS. It says so much about Larry’s spirit and character that after receiving one of the worst diagnoses imaginable, he never gave up and instead spent his final months advocating for ALS research to improve the lives of others impacted by this terrible disease. Larry will be greatly missed, and Susan and I send our deepest condolences to Bobbi and the rest of the Stogner family.” ###
09.30.2016	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) issued statements in response to the release of an Office of Inspector General (OIG) report detailing healthcare inspections of the surgical services at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center. The OIG report substantiated that: Some VA patients were not properly evaluated prior to surgery, causing surgical delays and cancellations. Prior to September 2014, patient deaths that occurred within 30 days of surgery were not reviewed as required, and peer reviews were not conducted as required by Veterans Health Administration and facility policy. A gynecological procedure was stopped after surgery had begun because of a lack of instruments. The patient subsequently underwent the surgical procedure at a non-VA hospital. The OIG also made a series of recommendations for the Fayetteville VA to correct longstanding issues, including implementing procedures to ensure patients are adequately evaluated by medicine and anesthesia providers prior to surgery, ensuring that peer reviews are conducted as required when criteria are met, and establishing procedures to ensure functioning surgical supplies, equipment, and instruments are available. In response to the OIG report, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statements: "I have reviewed the report of the VA Inspector General regarding the surgical services at the Fayetteville VA Medical Center. While changes in senior staff have led to an improvement in some patient services, it is still disturbing to me that the Inspector General had to remind the Fayetteville VA that it must ensure patients are adequately evaluated by medicine and anesthesia providers prior to surgery, and that necessary surgical tools are available for the surgery,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Taking care of those who bore the battle is the most solemn duty of the United States government and it is troubling that any hospital has to be reminded to have adequate pre-operative evaluations and sufficient equipment on hand to perform surgeries. It should not take an outside agency to remind any caregiver of those basic medical practices.” “Today’s report confirms the sad news that many of our veterans are still receiving inadequate care at VA facilities. Some patient deaths that occurred within 30 days of surgery at the Fayetteville VA facility were not reported or reviewed as required. Some veterans were not fully evaluated prior to surgery causing preventable delays and cancelations. Another procedure was stopped after surgery had begun because of a lack of instruments. That surgery was later completed at a community hospital,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Veterans must have greater access to quality health care where they live, when they need it. Today’s report affirms once again that many VA facilities still fall woefully short. This is unacceptable. Our nation’s veterans expect and deserve better than this—that’s why I introduced the Veterans Choice Improvement Act and why I’m going to keep fighting to enact it. We have a duty to support and protect our veterans, and I’m going to continue to do everything I can to ensure that our veterans are being taken care of.” ###
09.29.2016	Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senator David Perdue (R-GA) and colleagues on the Senate floor to discuss fixing Washington’s broken budget process. Senators Tillis and Perdue were joined by Senate Budget Committee Chairman Mike Enzi (R-WY), Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Senator James Lankford (R-OK), Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), Senator Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Senator Steve Daines (R-MT). Click here to watch the Senators’ full speeches or click on the image below. Highlights: Senator Tillis: “This is a threat to our national security. This is a threat to our economic security. This is a threat to the security of every man and woman in the United States because they can’t rely on a government that will provide businesses or individuals with any kind of certainty whatsoever. It’s tough to make budget decisions, but they need to be made.” Senator Perdue: “Right now, we have a budget crisis. We have a debt crisis. Fixing the budget process will not solve the debt crisis, but we will not solve the debt crisis unless and until we address the dysfunction in our budget process.” Senator Sullivan: “A lot of us ran for office – a lot of us for the first time – because we saw what is going on with this budget process…We have all been working on this for months this is what we need to do to finally get ahold of these enormous budget challenges. I want to encourage all of my colleagues, Republicans and Democrats, to join in this process to bring your ideas to fix what is clearly a broken process.” Senator Lankford: “We’re not going to get a better product, until we have a better process. Let’s solve how we do budgeting and actually get to a better product…Step one—like an AA group—let’s admit there is a problem. There is a problem. Step two—let’s get to work on fixing it and actually resolve the process, and let’s actually get to work balancing and paying off our debt.” Chairman Enzi: “I remember introducing [Senator Perdue] the first time we had a Budget Committee meeting, and I said, ‘Senator Perdue knows how to balance a budget, he’s been working in the private sector.’ And he said, ‘No, in the private sector you have to show a little bit of a profit.’ Well we’re going to have to show a little bit of profit around here if we’re ever going to get rid of the debt.” Senator Corker: “We really don’t have a budget process. I mean to even call what we do a budget, per most human beings’ understanding of what a budget is, is obviously not realistic…We have to, in essence, get a process in place that actually works. It’s impossible for the process we have today to work. Today, is a perfect example of that, right?” Senator Ernst: “We can’t keep spending money we don’t have on things that aren’t necessary. Washington can’t even do the basic business of balancing our own budget…It might just take a complete overhaul of Washington’s ways to help us solve this problem.” Senator Rounds: “We have to begin the process of fixing this broken [budget] system and we need to begin now. In 2026, our country turns 250 years old. Wouldn’t it be a marvelous goal if by that time we not only had this process fixed, but it was actually working once again?” Senator Daines: “The biggest hurdle to balancing the budget are the very rules, the very process, that guides this institution. They are broken…We came here not to accept the status quo but to reject it, and to change the way this country operates truly to save the future of our kids and our grandkids.”
09.28.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after voting in support of the continuing resolution that would keep the government funded until December 9, 2016: “The Senate majority worked diligently this year to restore regular order and pass bipartisan spending bills through the committee process. Unfortunately, Harry Reid decided it would be more politically advantageous in an election year to filibuster these bipartisan spending bills and prevent them from passing. This is why the Senate needed to pass a temporary funding bill to keep the government running and provide critical funding to fight the Zika virus and support our veterans and North Carolina’s military installations.” ###
09.28.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) attended a Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee oversight hearing on the Obama Administration’s FY 2017 Refugee Resettlement ‎Program, where he urged his colleagues to put politics aside and find concrete ways to improve the U.S. refugee program. Senator Tillis on the need to address the U.S. refugee system in a bipartisan manner:“We as committee members should stop talking about a Republican position and a Democrat position, and come up with a responsible, compassionate position for these refugees. We should also come up with responsible policies so people are not forced to make the heart-breaking decision to leave their nations. I don’t think a lot of people were born and say they want to leave their nations, they are threatened with their lives and their family’s lives. That is a profound decision that is one I hope I never have to make in the United States. I think most people want to live in their nation of birth, where their family lives and cultures are. However, there are failures in this system and people are talking past each other. Politicians and bureaucrats are parties to this problem and we need to start address it.” Senator Tillis on improving the integrity of the U.S. refugee system:“We should take the opportunity to improve the integrity of the system so we don’t continue to have the circular discussion about refugees or not. We are a nation founded on immigration, but we are in a time where people can be radicalized on Twitter. We have to be absolutely certain the people coming here want to honor our nation. We want to save them, we want to help them, but we expect them to come to this country and participate fully in society.” Watch Senator Tillis’ full comments at the Subcommittee hearing here. ###
09.27.2016	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tom Carper (D-DE), Richard Burr (R-NC), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Tim Kaine (D-VA) applauded the House’s passage of S. 1698, the Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act. The bipartisan legislation is authored by Senators Tillis and Carper and co-sponsored by Senators Burr, Warner, Kaine, and Feinstein. The legislation unanimously passed the Senate last year and will now head to President Obama’s desk to be signed into law. The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act will help protect living eugenics victims receiving compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal safety net programs such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, and SSI-Disabled. Without this legislation, eugenics victims who receive compensation payments could see their federal benefits reduced or even have their eligibility eliminated. State-run eugenics and compulsory sterilization laws victimized more than 60,000 Americans in 33 states from the 1920s to the 1970s. State governments often targeted specific groups for sterilization, including unmarried women, African-Americans, and children from poor families. Victims were often sterilized without their consent or knowledge. In 2013, North Carolina became the first state in the nation to pass legislation to create a state fund to compensate the living victims of the state-run forced sterilization program. In 2014, more than 200 North Carolina victims were awarded their first compensation payment of approximately $20,000 each. Recently, victims began receiving their second eugenics compensation payments, worth an additional $15,000. Last year, Virginia became the second state to pass legislation compensating the victims of a state-run eugenics program. Virginia will award $25,000 to each individual who was involuntarily sterilized and is still alive as of February 1, 2015. “Passage of this legislation caps off a long quest for justice for the victims of North Carolina’s shameful eugenics and sterilization program. When we established the compensation program for victims in North Carolina, we certainly didn’t intend to jeopardize their access to critical federal safety net programs through a legal technicality. They have suffered long enough, and I commend my colleagues in the House and Senate who have stood with these brave survivors to pass this legislation and bring relief,” said Senator Tillis. “I also hope this legislation will help raise the American public’s awareness of a dark and shameful chapter in our nation’s history. I would like to offer a much-deserved thank you to my friend and former colleague, North Carolina state Rep. Larry Womble, who has provided extraordinary leadership in the decades-long fight for justice for the living victims of North Carolina’s eugenics program. It has been an honor to join in this fight for justice.” “People who’ve been subjected to horrifying sterilization practices as a result of misguided eugenics programs have already had to live with unfathomable loss and hardship,” said Senator Tom Carper. “These individuals shouldn’t be penalized for compensation funds that they have received for their suffering, especially because it can never repair the pain they’ve had to endure. I’m proud that Congress came together across party lines to approve this important effort to ensure that no person loses important federal benefits because they received this type of compensation.” “The government robbed these individuals. We can never restore the families that were irreparably damaged, but we can ensure that eugenics victims who are eligible for compensation do not also have to endure their benefits being cut,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Eugenics was a dark chapter in our history. I encourage President Obama to sign this important legislation.” “This was one of the darkest, most shameful periods in Virginia’s history,” said Senator Mark Warner. “We should be doing everything in our power to ensure that the victims of this injustice have unimpeded access to the federal assistance to which they are entitled. I look forward to seeing the President sign this important piece of legislation into law.” ###
09.22.2016	Last night, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC), and Representatives G.K. Butterfield (D-NC) and Walter Jones (R-NC), introduced the Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016 – legislation to improve Eastern North Carolina’s highway system by designating portions of US Highway 264 as an interstate highway and by creating north-south interstate access for a new Eastern North Carolina Gateway Corridor generally along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11. “This legislation is a direct result of bipartisan coordination among members of the North Carolina delegation to modernize and improve North Carolina’s infrastructure,” said Senator Tillis. “Designating US Highway 264 as an interstate and creating interstate access along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11 would be bring a much needed improvement to the transportation corridor serving Greenville and the surrounding area, and would support Eastern North Carolina’s efforts to increase economic development and accessibility.” “The strength of North Carolina’s highway infrastructure is critical to moving our economy forward. Interstate highway connectivity is essential for connecting citizens and communities, moving goods to market, and supporting and creating jobs,” said Senator Burr. “Greenville is such an important part of Eastern North Carolina, and I’m hopeful that this legislation will help this area expand on its reputation as one of Eastern North Carolina’s major economic centers.” “The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act will enable the Greenville metropolitan area- which is home to more than 170,000 people- to continue its emergence as a leading economic, educational, and cultural hub,” said Congressman Butterfield. “It will help spur long-term economic development, trade, and tourism in Greenville and surrounding areas, including the future Woodard Parkway Industrial Park in Wilson. This legislation is a complement to my previously enacted ROAD Act and Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act and builds on my vision to better connect eastern North Carolina with Raleigh, the Port at Morehead City, and the Hampton Roads region of Virginia.” “The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act will support the long-term growth of our area by connecting Eastern North Carolina’s businesses to other key centers of commerce throughout our state and region,” said Congressman Jones. “The third district has long been known for innovation across a wide range of industries. It’s crucial that we continue to support this growth by ensuring Eastern North Carolinians have access to high-quality infrastructure.” Background:Greenville is the 10th largest city in North Carolina, and the largest city in North Carolina without an interstate highway. The Eastern North Carolina Gateway Act of 2016 will obtain an interstate designation from the U.S. 264/64 split in Zebulon to Greenville, and create north-south interstate access with a new Eastern North Carolina Gateway Corridor generally along US Highway 13 and NC Highway 11. This designation will improve transportation connectivity and economic development in Eastern North Carolina. The legislation is H.R. 6105 in the House and S. 3378 in the Senate; the text can be viewed online here. ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “The response to the shooting that occurred yesterday was utter chaos that resulted in the looting of private property and injuries to the very officers who were working to protect the safety of the protestors. It was an embarrassing moment for the city that was only redeemed by the brave men and women of the CMPD who demonstrated incredible composure, which likely prevented the violence from escalating further. “Charlotte is better than this, and I hope that the mayor and other city elected officials will join Chief Putney in demonstrating leadership that is guided by the facts and not political considerations of a given day.” ###
09.21.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) attended and spoke at a House Committee on Natural Resources oversight hearing on the status of the federal government’s management of wolves. Tillis called for the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (USFWS) to formally end its Red Wolf Recovery Program in North Carolina. Watch Senator Tillis’ comments on the Red Wolf Recovery Program here. Since it was created thirty years ago, the Red Wolf Recovery Program has failed to meet population recovery goals for the red wolf while negatively affecting North Carolina landowners and the populations of several other native species. 514 private landowners and farmers have sent individual requests to USFWS to not allow red wolves on their land. The Office of the Inspector General released a report on the Red Wolf Recovery Program in February, finding that the USFWS violated its rule by releasing 132 wolves into the wild between 1987 and 2013, when it had only provided for the release of 12 wolves. Additionally, they found that USFWS released wolves on private property without the written permission of landowners. Senator Tillis recently visited Aurora, North Carolina, to meet with property owners who are being harmed by the program. In June, he secured a provision in the Senate FY2017 Interior Appropriations bill that would require the USFWS to coordinate with North Carolina Wildlife Commission on decisions related to the future of the Red Wolf Recovery program. The North Carolina Wildlife Commission has also requested that the USFWS end the program. “Before we do anything more in North Carolina, I think it makes the most sense to shut the program down to figure out how to do it right and build some credibility with the landowners,” said Senator Tillis during today’s committee hearing. “There is a less than respectful history of dialogue between folks in North Carolina and the Fish and Wildlife Service. This is going to be an issue my office will be focused on for as long as I’m a U.S. Senator.” ###
09.21.2016	Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC) and lawmakers from both parties introduced bipartisan legislation to bring a new Department of Veterans Affairs medical facility to Raleigh, North Carolina in addition to new facilities in other parts of the country. The Providing Veterans Overdue Care Act includes funding for a new VA outpatient facility for Raleigh, North Carolina, which would be the 29th VA medical facility in North Carolina, and the 20th delivered during Senator Burr’s tenure in the United States Senate. “I am proud to co-introduce this bipartisan legislation that would authorize leases for 24 VA medical facilities, including an outpatient clinic in Raleigh,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “This legislation is a step toward reducing the unnecessary bureaucratic hurdles at the VA, I will continue to work across the aisle to ensure veterans are receiving access to the healthcare they need and deserve.” “One of the great honors of serving as your Senator is fighting to support and protect our veterans,” said Senator Richard Burr. “I am glad that Senator Warner has introduced this bipartisan legislation which will secure the 29th VA medical facility for our state, and the 20th of my tenure in the Senate. I’m urging the full Senate to pass this legislation without delay so that veterans can have greater access to quality, affordable health care where they live.” The full text of the amendment introduced today can be found here. The legislation is led by Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) and cosponsored by Sens. Michael Bennet (D-CO), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Richard Burr (R-NC), Susan Collins (R-ME), Steve Daines (R-MT), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Ed Markey (D-MA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Gary Peters (D-MI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). Background: During his tenure in the Senate, Senator Burr has fought successfully to get the Department of Veterans Affairs to place modern health care centers and clinics in the communities where veterans live. For many years, the VA relied on a few centrally located medical centers, forcing many veterans to drive long distances to get needed care from the VA. But Senator Burr has worked to bring new medical facilities to communities all across North Carolina so that veterans could have better access to the health care they were promised. There are now 28 VA medical facilities located throughout North Carolina. This legislation would secure the 29th for North Carolina. A full list of VA medical facilities delivered to North Carolina, during Senator Burr’s tenure can be found here. ###
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest described the fight against ISIS as “in some ways just a war of narratives”: “President Obama and his administration are completely detached from reality when it comes to confronting radical Islamic terrorism, consistently treating it as a public relations challenge rather than the grave threat to our national security that it is. The White House spokesman’s comment wasn’t a gaffe, it was an affirmation of the President’s worldview, which has failed to contain the threat posed by ISIS and other terrorists groups that have demonstrated their resolve to murder innocent people in every corner of the globe, including America.” ###
09.18.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to explosions in a Manhattan neighborhood and Marine Corps race in New Jersey, and a stabbing attack at a Minnesota mall, three separate incidents that occurred yesterday: “We are incredibly fortunate that the attacks over the weekend did not take any innocent lives, and I join all North Carolinians in wishing for a speedy recovery for all victims,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Lives were saved and the extent of injuries was mitigated because of the heroic work of first responders and law enforcement officials. The attacks are a glaring reminder that the threat of terrorism we face comes from perpetrators who are both foreign and domestic, and we must all continue to work together to keep our homeland safe.” ###
09.16.2016	Yesterday, the Senate Judiciary Committee passed bipartisan legislation co-sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) to help reduce crimes against America’s seniors through expanded education, prevention and prosecution tools. The Elder Abuse Prevention and Prosecution Act cleared the committee unanimously, and includes language by Senator Tillis that would require the Attorney General to publish best practices for improving guardianship proceedings and model legislation relating to guardianship proceedings for the purpose of preventing elder abuse. “We must do everything we can to stop all the forms of abuse and exploitation against senior citizens in North Carolina and across the country,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m proud to cosponsor commonsense, bipartisan legislation that will help prevent elder abuse and strengthen penalties against those who try to take advantage of our senior citizens.” The Elder Abuse Prevention and Prosecution Act expands data collection and information sharing to better prevent and respond to all forms of elder abuse and exploitation, including financial crimes against seniors. Specifically, the bill increases training for federal investigators and prosecutors and calls for the designation of at least one prosecutor in each judicial district who will be tasked with handling cases of elder abuse. It also ensures that the Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of Consumer Protection and the Justice Department will both have an elder justice coordinator. Further, the bill improves information sharing among government agencies and between federal, state and local authorities to develop best practices in the fight against elder financial exploitation. Finally, the bill increases penalties for perpetrators of such crimes – including mandatory forfeiture – to deter future offences. The bipartisan 3,000-member Elder Justice Coalition called the bill, “one of the most comprehensive and meaningful bills ever developed to address the rapidly increasing problem of elder financial abuse in America.” The bill also has the support of the Alzheimer’s Association, the National District Attorneys Association, Consumers Union, SIFMA, the 60 Plus Association, Leading Age, and the National Center for Victims of Crime, as well as the Conference of Chief Justices and the Conference of State Court Administrators. ###
09.15.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry passed his amendment to the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 that would give North Carolina counties the final say as to whether their land is designated as wilderness study areas by the United States Forest Service (USFS). Today, several North Carolina County Commissioners from affected counties also voiced their support for giving local communities the ultimate decision-making authority to protect the interests of North Carolina residents. The Tillis amendment directs the USFS to build a dialogue with local officials to determine how to best manage the land, and then gives North Carolina counties the authority to have final approval of what lands, if any, are designated wilderness. The amendment will only affect the Nantahala and Pisgah National Forests, both located in North Carolina, and does not block the wilderness designation process vested in Congress or prohibit new lands from being designated as wilderness. The Tillis amendment simply gives local residents and North Carolina counties the power to make decisions for the land they already own. The current USFS process of identifying new wilderness study areas in the Nantahala and Pisgah National Forests has had detrimental effects on local counties and residents. The wilderness study designations impede the ability of residents to access the land, preventing them from hunting and fishing. The designation also negatively impacts property tax revenues for the affected counties. U.S. Senator Thom Tillis: “States and counties know best how to manage and conserve their own land – not federal government bureaucrats. However, in North Carolina, we have seen the federal government grossly overreach by preventing residents in many counties from utilizing their own land as they see fit. My amendment will help ensure that North Carolina counties ultimately decide whether to designate new land as wilderness, empowering local officials and hardworking taxpayers with a key say in the decision-making process.” Mark Swanger, Chairman of the Haywood County Board of Commissioners:“As Chairman of the Haywood County Commissioners I would like to thank Senator Tillis for working to ensure that local County interests are given due consideration in the proposed revisions to the Pisgah National Forest Land Management Plan that includes and affects areas of Haywood County. The County believes that sufficient forest management practices are critical to maintaining a healthy forest ecosystem for native wildlife, which in turn sustains the economic and enjoyment value of areas. One concern we have expressed is that less forest management will negatively impact future search and rescue efforts, and increase their frequency, difficulty and cost by limiting necessary maintenance to roadways and trails, and reducing necessary signage. “Our Board passed a unanimous resolution on February 2, 2015 in opposition to any additional wilderness that would reduce the land management practices in Haywood County. There are other forest management designations and plans that could conserve the resources and protect the environment for its present uses and allow the full use of modern methods to do so. We would welcome additional dialogue with the U.S. Forest Service on the best way to manage the forest areas in Haywood County.” Cal Stiles, Cherokee County Commissioner:“The citizens of Cherokee County are opposed to any additional USFS lands being designated as wilderness. This prohibits the taxpayers from being able to enjoy the freedom to use the forest lands as we have for generations. These are public lands and belong to the citizens for their use and enjoyment. The wilderness status does not permit timber sales and would preclude the local school system from receiving their percentage of any timber sales, thus having a negative impact on their budget. The timber industry which is a large economic engine in Cherokee County would be negatively impacted effecting a loss of jobs. The Cherokee County Board of Commissioners are totally opposed to any expansion of the wilderness plan by the USFS and have unanimously passed a resolution stating our opposition to any expansion of a wilderness plan by the USFS. However the proposal, to allow the county to be a stakeholder in this process and sit at the table to discuss the USFS plans, I think would be very beneficial for everyone. Ultimately, we all need to work for a solution which is in the best interest of the taxpayers.” Jacob Nelms, Chairman of the Graham County Board of Commissioners:“The Graham County Board of Commissioners are steadfastly opposed to any additional wilderness located within the boundary of Graham County. Local officials are always ready and willing to have honest and open conversation with the USFS to make sure that the local interests are heard and included in any decision making process that will affect them.” Kevin Corbin, Chairman of the Macon County Board of Commissioners:“The Board of Commissioners are opposed to the management of additional wilderness area in Macon County by the U.S. Forest Service. Local representatives welcome the opportunity to have an open and candid conversation with the U.S. Forest Service regarding the future use of public lands by the federal government to ensure that the interests and concerns of constituents in Macon County are properly included in the decision-making process for the revision plan.” Tommy Thompson, Chairman of the Henderson County Board of Commissioners:“Although the current plan does not increase the amount of wilderness area within Henderson County, the Board of Commissioners are opposed to a plan that unreasonably restricts access to our national forests for use by our citizens. However, we remain open to having dialogue with the U.S. Forest Service that will advance the goal of reaching a common solution that is both reasonable and fair to our citizens.” Mike Hawkins, Chairman of the Transylvania County Board of Commissioners:“The Transylvania County Board of Commissioners has concern over potentially net negative consequences of additional wilderness designations in areas of the Pisgah and Nantahala Forests located within our county, and we oppose the designation of any wilderness areas within Transylvania County. We are pleased with local National Forest staff, commend them in their manner of local engagement, and support their contributions to the community. We call upon the U.S. Forest Service to increase management activities which will enhance the social, biological, and economic values of our Forests for the benefit of all our residents and visitors.” David Monteith, Swain County Commissioner:“Swain County is totally opposed to any new land being designated as wilderness or wilderness study areas. Nearly 90% of Swain County is already controlled by the federal government and we cannot afford to give any more of the remaining private land to federal bureaucrats. We support and thank Senator Tillis’ efforts in keeping private land in the hands of local citizens.” Jeff Whitson, Yancey County Commissioner:“It is imperative that a continuous form of dialogue be established between the U.S. Forest Service and local government. It is a shame that the U.S. Forest Service has bypassed the voice of the People and their elected officials. It would appear that the designation of additional wilderness area is an attempt by the U.S. Forest Service to manage less land. It will take away from the county’s rich local heritage, raise safety concerns, diminish tax collection capabilities, as well as encroach upon the freedom of each taxpayer to enjoy our public lands. These issues are important when meeting the needs of the people we serve in Yancey County.” Matt Wechtel, Madison County Commissioner:“I, along with several of my fellow County Commissioners, are against the proposed Forest Revision Plan primarily because the Federal Government appears to have no intention to allow local officials and residents to have a say in the future use of these lands. We believe that the lack of ‘management’ ultimately leads to worse natural disasters as is evidenced by the ‘Hot Springs Fire’ earlier this year which was fueled by years of tinder caused by non-managed forest land. I believe that changing the plan to increase designated Wilderness areas will increase the effects of these fires, reduce timber revenue to our school systems and reduce our citizens’ ability to use these lands to benefit our communities.” Clay Logan, Clay County Commissioner: “The United States Forest Services owns 48% of the property in Clay County, North Carolina and our rural county has Tier 1 designation as a very impoverished and economically distressed county. One of the biggest draws of our county is the recreation provided by the national forest lands. People seek out our county to take advantage of the hunting, fishing, hiking, and camping opportunities that are available here. These lands have a large impact on our economic development. “Clay County feels like any additional lands that are put into wilderness study areas will be very detrimental to out county in numerous ways. Lands that are designated as a study area will not be accessible by road and there will be no way to enter the land except on foot. This kind of access will eliminate handicap access and it also will eliminate the timber harvesting which supports our school system.” ###
09.15.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered a Senate floor speech honoring the life and service of fallen Shelby K-9 Police Officer Tim Brackeen. Officer Brackeen passed away on Monday after succumbing to gunshot wounds he sustained in the line of duty over the weekend. Watch Senator Tillis’ floor speech here. “Officer Brackeen was well-known as a loving family man, and he was deeply respected and admired for the dedication he had for the department and community which he served,” said Senator Tillis. “For anyone in our country who has even a trace of doubt over the true character and motivation of the vast majority of brave men and women in law enforcement, Tim Brackeen was exactly the kind of officer who could instantly erase those doubts.” ###
09.13.2016	Last night, the Senate voted to advance an amendment introduced by North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr that prevents the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) from banning houseboats on Lake Fontana and Hiwasee Lake. TVA’s proposed ban on houseboats would affect nearly 400 houseboat owners in North Carolina. “I am pleased the Senate was able to advance this important amendment to protect hundreds of houseboat owners on Fontana Lake,” said Senator Tillis. “I will continue to work with Senator Burr and Congressman Meadows to stop this gross overreach by the federal government and allow these families on Fontana Lake to keep their homes.” “This is an important step forward,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Many of these folks have been living on the water for decades. I want to thank Congressman Mark Meadows for his work on this issue as well. I’m proud that we have been able to work together to make sure that the families living in houseboats on Lake Fontana don’t lose their homes. I’m going to keep fighting until we’ve protected these families.”The Senate attached the amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 infrastructure bill last night. The Senate is expected to vote on final passage of the bill this week. The text of the amendment is available online here.
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Shelby Police Department announced the death of Shelby K-9 Officer Tim Brackeen, who died as a result of injuries sustained in the line of duty over the weekend: “Today’s news is an absolute tragedy, and Susan and I extend our deepest condolences to the family and friends of Officer Tim Brackeen, the city of Shelby, and our state’s dedicated law enforcement community. Officer Brackeen courageously risked his life in order to bring a wanted suspect to justice and protect the community of Shelby. In doing so, he made the ultimate sacrifice, a sacrifice we will never come close to repaying. “We can never forget about the debt of gratitude we also owe to the parents, spouses, and children of our law enforcement officers, family members who are forced accept the reality of the tremendous danger that confronts their loved ones every single day they go to work. “I join North Carolinians in praying for Officer Brackeen’s wife and daughter, and for the safety of the thousands of brave men and women in blue who keep North Carolina’s communities safe.” ###
09.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) welcomed news that the remaining 280 Iranian dissidents housed at Camp Liberty in Iraq have been safely relocated to Albania. Camp Liberty was a former U.S. military installation in Baghdad that housed approximately 3,000 Iranian political refugees who oppose the totalitarian Iranian regime. Despite initially working to create Camp Liberty and pledging to protect the Iranian refugees, the Obama Administration had been slow to address the camp’s security vulnerabilities. The residents of Camp Liberty were targeted in countless attacks over the last several years, resulting in the deaths of innocent men and women. “Camp Liberty will be remembered as not only a humanitarian issue, but also a symbol of hope and courage to young people in Iran,” said Senator Tillis. “While the American government failed to live-up to its commitment to protect the brave political dissidents of Camp Liberty, I am grateful they have been safely relocated to Albania, where they will finally be safe from the attacks of Iranian-backed militias that cowardly fired upon the unarmed masses who dared to speak out against the atrocities of the Iranian regime and call for democracy in Iran.” ###
09.09.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following video statement in advance of the 15th anniversary of September 11, 2001: “As we reflect on the 15th anniversary of the tragic events of September 11th, please keep all the victims and their families in your thoughts and prayers, including the courageous first responders who lost their lives trying to save others,” said Senator Tillis. “Also, please keep in mind the brave men and women in uniform who took the fight to the enemy and paid the ultimate sacrifice. On this September 11th, may God Bless you and continue to bless the United States of America.” Watch Senator Tillis’ video here.
09.09.2016	Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr released the following statements on the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) review of the Camp Lejeune contaminated water rule, completed just three weeks after they sent a letter to Director Shaun Donovan urging the agency to grant disability benefits to poisoned Lejeune veterans: “The victims of Camp Lejeune’s water contamination disaster have waited far too long for justice, and prior OMB delays have been inexplicable,” said Senator Tillis. “It’s a relief to see movement, and now we begin the process of providing meaningful feedback to the VA about the details of the proposed program. I hope that the comment period will be substantive but swift and geared toward keeping faith with the veterans who have served our country so honorably.” “Many North Carolina veterans have lost their ability to work and their ability to support themselves financially because of the disabilities caused by toxic exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Burr. “I am glad that OMB has quickly reviewed mine and Senator Tillis’ request to grant disability status to veterans suffering from diseases caused by poisoned water at Camp Lejeune – which include Parkinson’s Disease, Bladder Cancer and Leukemia. Now that the Department of Veterans Affairs has published the proposed rule, I’m looking forward to a substantive public feedback period. I’ll continue the fight to protect all of our veterans in the United States Senate.” In the original letter to OMB, the senators wrote: “The current process the VA has in place for evaluating disability claims from Camp Lejeune veterans is insufficient and mired in bureaucracy. This is leading to many disabled veterans, some terminally ill, being continually denied disability compensation from the VA despite exhaustive scientific research showing a clear causal connection between their medical conditions and the exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune. The bureaucratic mistreatment of these veterans is unacceptable, and it cannot be allowed to continue.” The full signed letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan is available online here. The Department of Veterans affairs has published the final rule in the federal register here. ###
09.08.2016	Today, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr introduced legislation to stop the Tennessee Valley Authority’s (TVA) proposed ban on houseboats, which would affect nearly 400 houseboat owners on Fontana Lake in North Carolina. “The TVA’s proposed ban on houseboats is yet another example of federal government overreach that harms local communities in North Carolina,” said Senator Tillis. “I look forward to working with Senator Burr to support this amendment and find a resolution for houseboat owners on Fontana Lake.” “TVA’s proposed removal of houseboat owners from their homes would be devastating for many hardworking North Carolina families in Swain and Graham Counties,” said Senator Burr. “This amendment would stop this ill-conceived TVA proposal dead in its tracks and ensure that houseboat owners are able to stay in their homes. I’m urging the Senate to pass my amendment immediately to protect these vulnerable home owners.” The legislation was filed today as an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2016. The text of the amendment is available online here. In August, Senator Burr wrote a letter to the Tennessee Valley Authority urging the agency to reconsider this proposal which would effectively ban houseboats in some parts of Western North Carolina. The full signed letter is available online here. ###
09.08.2016	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) is encouraging North Carolinians to contact his regional offices if they experience difficulty dealing with a federal agency. In less than two years, Senator Tillis’ office has closed thousands of cases for constituents, with many resolving issues North Carolinians have had with agencies such as the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Social Security Administration, and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Senator Tillis recently penned an op-ed that detailed the constituent services offered by his office and featured specific stories of local constituents his office has assisted. Localized versions of the op-ed were published in newspapers across North Carolina, including the Asheboro Courier-Tribune, Asheville Citizen-Times, Hendersonville Times-News, Hickory Daily Record, High Point Enterprise, Lincolnton Times-News, New Bern Sun Journal, Richmond County Daily Journal, Salisbury Post, Washington Daily News, Wilmington Star, and Wilson Times. North Carolinians experiencing issues with a federal agency should call one of Senator Tillis’ five regional offices in North Carolina: Charlotte office: 704-509-9087Greenville office: 252-329-0371Hendersonville office: 828-693-8750High Point office: 336-885-0685Raleigh office: 919-856-4630 Senator Tillis Op-Ed: My Office Is Here To Help Over the last two years, I’ve had the honor of representing the state of North Carolina in the United States Senate. I’ve worked to help advance commonsense, bipartisan initiatives, including reforming the VA, supporting military families, confronting the growing opioid and heroin epidemic in our communities, and pursuing legislation that makes it easier for North Carolina’s small businesses to create good-paying jobs and grow our economy. With that said, the most important work I do as your Senator is done back home in North Carolina. Since the day I was elected, my number one priority has been establishing a dedicated and experienced constituent services team that is always ready and willing to serve the needs of North Carolinians. The constituent advocates in my five field offices across the state have more than 100 years of combined prior experience serving North Carolina constituents. In the span of less than two years, my office has closed thousands of cases for North Carolinians, and we have processed and responded to hundreds of thousands of emails and letters from constituents about important policy issues. When it comes to assisting constituents, we’ve helped resolve a wide range of federal issues, from helping seniors get timely responses from the Social Security Administration to expediting last-minute passport renewals to ensuring veterans get appointments at VA providers and receive the VA benefits they need and deserve. The one regret I’ve repeatedly heard from North Carolinians who have reached out to my office is that they simply wish they knew about the constituent services we offer sooner. All too often, people make endless phone calls to a federal agency that go nowhere, sometimes for months or even years. Navigating through layers upon layers of government bureaucracy can be daunting and stressful, especially when someone’s health or financial livelihood is at stake. That is where my office comes in. We want to hear your story and help in any way we can. In many cases, my office can serve as your personal advocate by making the phones calls for you, cutting through the red tape and directly corresponding with the federal government on your behalf. Some of the specific examples of North Carolinians my office has assisted include: A veteran from Randolph County who contacted my office because he was having a difficult time receiving an oxygen concentrator from the VA so that he could continue to be mobile. The VA would not provide him with the equipment he needed, stating they did not have any available. After the veteran contacted my High Point office, my staff then reached out to the VA and were able to locate one available concentrator pump that the veteran needed. A constituent from Jackson County who reached out to my Hendersonville office seeking help in obtaining her deceased grandfather’s World War II military medals. My office worked directly with the National Personnel Records Center to assist with the request, and she was soon presented with her grandfather’s five military medals. A constituent from Rocky Mount who recently suffered a heart attack and was in drastic need of a hip replacement, all while battling the federal government to receive his Social Security benefits. The constituent had been fighting for their benefits for over a year before contacting my Greenville office. My staff worked directly with the Social Security Administration and succeeded in expediting his benefits. If you or a family member is having difficulty with any federal agency and you’re not receiving the answers you need, make sure the next call you make is to one of my five regional field offices across North Carolina or visit my website at tillis.senate.gov. I look forward to hearing from you soon. ###
09.07.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced he will host his annual Service Academy Day at Wake Forest University on September 24, 2016 from 10:00am-1:00pm for North Carolina students interested in learning more about the admission process to the United States Services Academies. The Service Academy Day gives high school students, family members, counselors, and educators the opportunity to meet representatives, midshipmen and cadets from each Military Academy and the Wake Forest ROTC program, and speak with staff members from Senator Tillis’ office about the nomination process. Students who are interested in applying to a Service Academy but are unable to attend may still call Senator Tillis’ Charlotte office to receive information. “One of the honors I have representing North Carolina in the United States Senate is nominating outstanding high school students who are ready to serve their country by attending one of the five U.S. Service Academies,” said Senator Tillis. “Service Academy Day is a great opportunity for young North Carolinians to talk with members of my staff and representatives from each Service Academy about the possibility of attending one of these prestigious institutions. I hope families across North Carolina are able to take advantage of this event.” Date: September 24, 2016Time: 10:00am – 1:00pmLocation: Wake Forest University Farrell Hall School of BusinessAddress: 1834 Wake Forest Road, Winston-Salem, NC 27109Senator Tillis’ Charlotte Office Number: 704-509-9087 ###
09.07.2016	In a FoxNews.com op-ed published today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) lays out why Senate Democrats, led by Minority Leader Harry Reid, flip-flopped from supporting $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus to opposing it. Tillis also addresses the talking points Senate Democrats have used to justify their opposition to the Zika funding bill, explaining why their criticism lacks factual merit. Read Senator Tillis’ op-ed here. In the op-ed, Tillis also expresses hope that Reid’s retirement next year will help change the toxic culture of gridlock and hyperpartisan brinksmanship in Washington, a culture that Reid helped establish and actively promoted. Tillis on Harry Reid’s motivation for flip-flopping on Zika funding: “…During the [conference] legislative process, Harry Reid had a change of heart, determining it would be more politically advantageous to have the funding bill fail so he could turn around and blame Republicans ahead of the November elections. “Harry Reid’s Senate Democrats quickly fell in line. They have blocked several attempts to pass the Zika funding and get it to the president’s desk, a flip-flop from supporting funding to opposing it. In fact, all but one Senate Democrat who voted for the $1.1 billion to fight Zika in May then voted against it this summer at Reid’s request. “To provide cover for such craven politicization of what was originally a slam-dunk bipartisan bill, Reid scripted one-sentence sound bites for his Democratic candidates to repeat on the campaign trail when voters demand an explanation for the flip-flopping filibuster.” Tillis on the long-term consequences of continued Zika funding obstructionism by Senate Democrats and President Obama: “While President Obama berates Congress to ‘do its job’ and pass Zika funding that his own party is filibustering, the reality is that right now his administration is sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars that can immediately be used to fight Zika. “The only rationale behind the president’s refusal to make use of those funds is to double-down on Harry Reid’s strategy to place blame on Congressional Republicans. “This is a dangerous game to play. While we may have close to sufficient funds to combat the Zika virus for the rest of the year, the long-term consequences of continued Democratic obstructionism of Zika funding will be severe. “The National Institutes of Health is currently developing a vaccine for the Zika virus, but is running low on funds. Unless Congress approves the $1.1 billion in funding, the vaccine effort could stall, and Zika will be back next year and emerge as a crisis for many more Americans.” Tillis on Harry Reid’s failed legacy of hyperpartisanship: “Harry Reid’s closing scene in the long drama of his failed tenure as Democrat Leader may very well be his success in killing Zika funding legislation. If his obstructionism succeeds, the consequences will reverberate in communities across America long after he retires next January. People’s lives are literally at stake. “Let’s hope that Reid’s Democratic colleagues muster up the political courage to stand up to him and put the welfare of the American people ahead of reckless election-year political games. “Regardless of our ideological leanings or partisan affiliations, we should all hope that the end of Harry Reid’s tenure in the Senate will also bring an end to the culture of hyperpartisan brinksmanship that he established in the Senate. It’s a toxic culture that has brought us to the point where Congress can’t even pass a bill to save the lives and health of the most vulnerable among us. “Let’s hope, for the sake of our nation, that we can and will do better.” Read the full op-ed here. ###
09.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) expressed disappointment after the Senate Democrats refused to end their filibuster of the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations bill. The funding bill, which was voted out of the Senate Committee on Appropriations in a 30-0 vote, would provide the $568.1 billion needed to fund the nation’s Armed Forces. “Senate Democrats have once again voted to block a commonsense bill that funds our military, the very same bill that every Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee voted in favor of just months ago,” said Senator Tillis. “As a Senator who has the distinct honor of representing a tremendous military community that includes Fort Bragg and Camp Lejeune, I find it abhorrent that Harry Reid has managed to find a way to turn funding for our men and women in uniform into an election year political game.” Senator Tillis previously spoke on the Senate floor twice to call on Senate Democrats to end their filibuster of the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill. You can watch the speeches here and here. ###
09.06.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement after Senate Democrats once again filibustered the Military Construction-Veterans Affairs-Zika Appropriations Bill, which would provide $1.1 billion to combat the Zika virus and support efforts to develop a vaccine: “Today, the Army announced that five servicemembers based out of Fort Bragg contracted Zika while serving overseas, and Senate Democrats proceeded to block Zika funding for the third time. They continue to follow the lead of Harry Reid and support his flip-flop from originally supporting Zika funding to opposing it. This obstructionism will have dire consequences, including the potential to stall vaccine development efforts and cause the Zika virus to reemerge as an even bigger crisis next year.” ###
09.02.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) urged North Carolinians to stay safe as Hermine approaches the state and to contact his staff if they are affected by the storm and face difficulty getting in contact with Federal Disaster Assistance or FEMA. “Hermine will bring gusty winds and a tremendous amount of rainfall to North Carolina this Labor Day weekend, which could cause significant damage to homes and property. My staff stands ready to assist North Carolinians affected by Hermine who are having trouble getting in contact with FEMA or disaster assistance,” said Senator Tillis. “I encourage all North Carolinians and visitors to remain alert and cautious to keep themselves and their families safe during this holiday weekend.” North Carolinians who are having issues reaching FEMA or Disaster Assistance should call Senator Tillis’ office at 919-922-2409. North Carolina Emergency Contact Information FEMA1-800-621-3362 TTY: 1-800-462-7585 http://www.disasterassistance.gov/ SBA Disaster Assistance1-202-205-6734 Coast Guard 24 hour Coast Guard search and rescue for Atlantic Region 1-757-398-6700 For Power Outages:Duke Energy 1-800-228-8465Duke Energy Progress 1-800-419-6356Dominion 1-866-366-4357Albemarle EMC 1-800-274-2072Blue Ridge Electric 1-800-448-2383Brunswick EMC 1-800-682-5309Cape Hatteras Electric Cooperative 1-866-511-9862Carteret-Craven Electric Cooperative 1-800-682-2217Central EMC 1-877-766-6769Edgecombe Martin County Cooperative 1-800-690-0657EnergyUnited 1-800-386-4833Four County EMC 1-888-368-7289French Broad EMC 1-828-649-2051Halifax EMC 1-800-690-0522Haywood EMC 1-800-951-6088Jones-Onslow EMC 1-800-681-4146Lumbee River EMC 1-800-683-5571Pee Dee EMC 1-800-693-0190Piedmont EMC 1-800-449-2667Pitt and Greene EMC 1-800-622-1362Randolph EMC 1-877-736-2633Roanoke Electric Cooperative 1-800-358-9437Rutherford EMC 1-800-521-0920South River EMC 1-800-338-5530Surry-Yadkin EMC 1-336-356-4141Tideland EMC 1-800-637-1079Tri-County EMC 1-800-548-4869Union Power 1-800-794-4423Wake EMC 1-800-743-3155 ###
08.29.2016	
08.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the State Department admitted the timing of the Obama Administration’s transfer of $400 million to Iran was contingent upon Iran’s release of Americans held hostage by the Iranian regime: “Weeks after President Obama assured the American people that his administration didn’t pay the Iranian regime a ransom, the State Department finally admitted that the $400 million payment to Iran was directly linked to the release of Americans held hostage. It is ransom by any definition. “It’s becoming increasingly clear that President Obama sold the American people and Congress a bill of goods with his disastrous Iran nuclear deal, offering the world’s largest state sponsor of terror concession after concession, including a path to a nuclear weapon. He continues to deliberately mislead the American public about it to this day.” ###
08.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) wrote a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donavan urging the Department of Veterans Affairs to grant presumptive disability status to veterans suffering from diseases caused by poisoned water at Camp Lejeune, including Parkinson’s Disease, Bladder Cancer and Leukemia, among others. “While affected veterans are receiving health care, many have lost their homes and their ability to work and financially support themselves because of the disabilities caused by the illnesses they developed from toxic exposure,” the Senators wrote. “Many more are teetering on the brink of losing their homes and bankruptcy. This is not just a North Carolina problem; this is a national problem." The signed letter is available online here and the text of the letter is included below: August 18, 2016 The Honorable Shaun Donovan Director Office of Management and Budget 1725 17th Street, NW Washington, DC 20503 Dear Director Donovan: We write to you with concerns about the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) proposed rule that addresses diseases associated with exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune, NC (RIN: 2900-AP66). This proposed rule is currently pending review with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and we are concerned about further delays in approving this rule. Please understand that further delay in approving this rule will cause significant harm to the well-being of thousands of disabled veterans. From 1953 to 1987, nearly one million servicemembers and their family members were poisoned by contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune, NC. In 2012, Congress passed, and the President signed into law, H.R. 1627, the Honoring America’s Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 (P.L. 112-154). This law provides health care for Camp Lejeune veterans and their families who are suffering from a variety of medical conditions associated with exposure to the contaminated water. However, the law did not address disability compensation and presumptions of service-connected disabilities because VA had to address those issues internally and through the federal rule making process. With the submission of RIN: 2900-AP66, the VA is proposing to amend its adjudication regulations relating to presumptive service connection for certain diseases associated with contaminants present in the base water supply at Camp Lejeune and finally provide some financial relief to these veterans. We ask that OMB approve this rule immediately and allow it to proceed to the public comment period. While affected veterans are receiving health care, many have lost their homes and their ability to work and financially support themselves because of the disabilities caused by the illnesses they developed from toxic exposure. Many more are teetering on the brink of losing their homes and bankruptcy. This is not just a North Carolina problem; this is a national problem. One Camp Lejeune veteran said it well when he said, “It’s great they are getting health care, too bad they are living in their Buick.” The current process the VA has in place for evaluating disability claims from Camp Lejeune veterans is insufficient and mired in bureaucracy. This is leading to many disabled veterans, some terminally ill, being continually denied disability compensation from the VA despite exhaustive scientific research showing a clear causal connection between their medical conditions and the exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune. The bureaucratic mistreatment of these veterans is unacceptable, and it cannot be allowed to continue. We are not of the opinion that scientific research on this issue is lacking or should give OMB pause in approving this rule. To the contrary, the research that has been conducted on the contaminated water at Camp Lejeune by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is exhaustive. The recent Public Health Assessment conducted by ATSDR shows clear causal connection between the contaminated water and the nine conditions that are under consideration in this rule for presumption of service connection. Again, we urge OMB to immediately approve this proposed rule and allow it to proceed to the public comment period. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Richard Burr Thom Tillis United States Senator United States Senator cc: The Honorable Robert McDonald, Secretary of Veterans Affairs ##
08.16.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s release of 15 Guantanamo detainees to the United Arab Emirates: “President Obama has blatantly ignored the lessons he should have learned from his previous transfers of terrorists from Guantanamo to other countries, which resulted in terrorists returning to the battlefield to fight against the United States and our allies,” said Senator Tillis. “Releasing more dangerous terrorists from our custody will only put the safety and security of our nation and our troops in greater jeopardy.” Last year, Senator Tillis visited the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where he was joined by fellow senators. The Senators toured the Guantanamo Bay base, observed detention operations, and met with military commanders. ###
08.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement announcing his support for East Carolina University’s attempt to join the Big 12 Conference: “Time after time, East Carolina University has proven itself on and off the field. ECU is an institution with high academic standards and an athletic program quickly on the rise, all supported by a deeply loyal fan base and alumni network that extends far beyond the state of North Carolina. The Pirates would be a perfect fit for the Big 12, and I strongly support ECU’s effort to be admitted as the newest member of the conference.” ###
08.10.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after a federal appeals court ruled that the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) cannot preempt states like North Carolina from passing municipal broadband laws: “Today’s ruling affirms the fact that unelected bureaucrats at the FCC completely overstepped their authority by attempting to deny states like North Carolina from setting their own laws to protect hardworking taxpayers and maintain the fairness of the free market.” BACKGROUND In 2011, the North Carolina General Assembly passed a law (S.L. 2011-84) that protects taxpayers by barring local governments from using tax dollars to cross-subsidize other local accounts and requiring a vote of citizens to authorize new debt used to fund the broadband service. The law grandfathered the City of Wilson, North Carolina, and two other municipal broadband providers, but required them to follow the requirements set in the legislation if they attempted to expand their service. Wilson subsequently asked for a waiver from those rules, resulting in a decision from the FCC in February 2015 that overturned North Carolina and Tennessee state laws that set requirements on municipalities competing with the private sector in the broadband marketplace. The FCC’s overreach prompted Senator Tillis and Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) to introduce federal legislation to stop the FCC from pre-empting municipal broadband laws already on the books, or any other municipal broadband laws subsequently adopted by states. The bill also included a Sense of Congress stating that the FCC does not have the legal authority to prohibit states from implementing municipal broadband restrictions. Original co-sponsors of the federal legislation included Representatives Robert Pittenger (R-NC-9), Renee Ellmers (R-NC-2), Mark Meadows (R-NC-11), and David Rouzer (R-NC-7). ###
08.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), David Vitter (R-LA) and Steve Daines (R-MT), and Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC-07) announced they concluded an extensive, weeklong visit to Israel. The trip was a fact-finding mission for the members of Congress to learn more about the security situation in Israel, the refugee crisis in the Middle East, the special relationship between the U.S. and Israel, and shared national security objectives between the two nations, including preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapons capability and combatting the spread of radical Islamic terrorism. The members of Congress met with top Israeli officials, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and members of the Knesset, received briefings from senior Israeli military leaders, and discussed opportunities for bilateral economic cooperation with representatives of Israeli companies that have a presence in the members’ home states. “What became increasingly clear during our trip is that in a region consumed by terrorism and oppression, Israel stands out as a shining beacon of hope and freedom,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “America has a special relationship with Israel, bonded by a shared set of core values and strategic interests. We must strengthen our friendship with Israel by working together to destroy terrorism and doing everything we can to prevent the Iranian regime from developing nuclear weapons.” “Over the course of the last week, my colleagues and I have met some of Israel's top leaders, and I can confidently say that Israel's priorities are not only directly in line with those of the United States, but they are working toward a safer Middle East,” said Senator David Vitter. “Perhaps more disconcerting is the fact that our conversations last week made clear that the Obama Administration's nuclear deal with Iran moves the timeline of a nuclear Iran from a hypothetical ‘if’ to ‘when.’ We must absolutely continue working with our Israeli allies against Iran’s global aggression to keep our citizens, families, and communities safe.” “As the threats from radical Islamic extremism grow worldwide, it is imperative that the U.S. Stands with our partner in peace, Israel,” said Senator Steve Daines. “After hearing from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other leaders in Israel it is clear now more than ever that we must work together to keep our nations and the world safe.” “Israel is a very special ally of the United States,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “Any attack on Israel of any kind is an attack on the American people. It was an honor for us to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other Israeli civilian and military leaders to discuss what America can do to help them counter the numerous threats they continually face. Our two countries must stand inseparable to ensure their future, for anything less will threaten our own." The trip was sponsored and paid for by the American Israel Education Foundation (AIEF), which is privately funded by American citizens. ###
08.01.2016	Following the outbreak of the Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI), Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Al Franken (D-MN), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), and John Thune (R-SD) on a bipartisan letter addressed to United States Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack asking for increased efforts to end discrimination against American turkey exports by addressing unscientific import requirements imposed by two U.S. trading partners. North Carolina is ranked #2 nationally in total turkey production. The Senators wrote in part, “As a result of last year’s outbreak, certain countries are requiring that all poultry exported from the U.S. be hatched and raised in this country. The most significant markets in question are South Africa and the Republic of Korea. As currently included in import requirements for both countries, the phrase ‘must be hatched and raised in the United States’ is causing significant disruption to trade even though there is no scientific evidence for its existence and sets a negative precedent for future trade negotiations with other nations. They continued, “The impact of the 2015/2016 HPAI outbreak has left long-lasting, undesirable consequences for the poultry industry, and the ‘hatched and raised’ requirement is one that needs attention. This new restriction appears to represent a non-scientific trade barrier that limits the turkey industry’s ability to export abroad.” The full text of the letter is below, and can be found by clicking here. The Honorable Thomas J. VilsackSecretary of AgricultureU.S. Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Avenue SWWashington, D.C. 20250 Dear Secretary Vilsack, We would like to express continued gratitude for your diligence in working to eliminate Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) in domestic poultry in 2015 and again this year. We are pleased with the improvements USDA implemented, in collaboration with the poultry industry, in the area of disease prevention and overall response since the first positive test last year. However there are still some issues that must be addressed, and we would like to highlight one in particular. As a result of last year’s outbreak, certain countries are requiring that all poultry exported from the U.S. be hatched and raised in this country. The most significant markets in question are South Africa and the Republic of Korea. As currently included in import requirements for both countries, the phrase “must be hatched and raised in the United States” is causing significant disruption to trade even though there is no scientific evidence for its existence and sets a negative precedent for future trade negotiations with other nations. Notably, these markets are not extending this requirement to all countries that were affected by HPAI, and there does not appear to be justification for this differentiation. For example, meat from a poult hatched in the U.S. and then raised and processed in Canada can still be exported to both of these markets, but meat from a poult born in Canada and raised in the U.S. is not eligible for export to the same markets. It is important to note that the National Poultry Improvement Plan (NPIP) is already recognized as the gold standard around the world for ensuring that no products from diseased poultry enter the marketplace. As a result, customers both in the U.S. and abroad can be confident they are purchasing poultry products from birds free of disease. We appreciate the work the Agriculture Marketing Service (AMS) and the Foreign Agriculture Service (FAS) have done in creating an Export Verification (EV) program which allows companies to trace back and validate that poults are hatched and raised in the U.S. so that they are eligible for export to those markets. While this program is helping to re-open the Republic of Korea and South Africa markets to some U.S. turkey exports, we believe this is a short-term solution. The impact of the 2015/2016 HPAI outbreak has left long-lasting, undesirable consequences for the poultry industry, and the “hatched and raised” requirement is one that needs attention. This new restriction appears to represent a non-scientific trade barrier that limits the turkey industry’s ability to export abroad. Right now, just two important markets are affected, but we are concerned that this language could be requested by additional countries in the future. We look forward to hearing from you about this important matter. We specifically ask that you provide an assessment of the effectiveness of the EV program and the Department’s perspective on its use in future trade negotiations. Additionally, we ask that you consider raising the problematic “hatched and raised” language in future bilateral discussions with the Republic of Korea and South Africa. Sincerely, Senator Thom Tillis Senator Joni ErnstSenator Amy KlobucharSenator Roy BluntSenator John BoozmanSenator Joe DonnellySenator Al FrankenSenator Heidi HeitkampSenator John Thune ###
07.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) co-sponsored the Cannabidiol Research Expansion Act, a bill to support research initiatives on the potential benefits of substances such as cannabidiol (CBD) that are derived from marijuana. “When it comes to our nation’s efforts to cure diseases, we shouldn’t let regulations be a roadblock to legitimate and responsible medical research,” said Senator Tillis. “The Cannabidiol Research Expansion Act is a commonsense, bipartisan effort to remove unnecessary barriers to give researchers an improved ability to study the potential benefits and risks of cannabidiol and other components that are derived from the marijuana plant.” The bill was introduced by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). Currently, CBD is classified as a Schedule I drug. As a result, research on CBD is subject to stringent regulations, which have posed a significant obstacle to medical developments and research. Thousands of parents nationwide have used CBD oil to help their children who suffer from intractable epilepsy. This promising antidotal evidence has not been able to be validated by FDA- compliant clinical trials due to the regulations that this bill would reduce. The goal of the Cannabidiol Research Expansion Act is to ensure research on CBD and other potentially beneficial marijuana-derived substances is based on sound science while simultaneously reducing the regulatory barriers associated with conducting research on marijuana. Key provisions of the bill include: Requiring the Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services to complete an analysis to determine the medical value of CBD within one year. Allowing research on CBD to be conducted using a Schedule II registration, rather than the more stringent Schedule I classification. Streamlining the process by which researchers notify the federal government of changes to their research protocols or quantity of marijuana needed. Allowing accredited research institutions, medical schools and pharmaceutical companies located in states that provide such authority to conduct FDA-authorized research. Allowing patients and parents of patients with intractable epilepsy to possess the non-psychoactive substances such as CBD oil for physician approved treatment. ###
07.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after several Baton Rouge, Louisiana, police officers were shot and killed: “I am heartbroken by yet another horrific attack against law enforcement. Baton Rouge has seen its share of anguish over the last several weeks, and the cowards who perpetrated today’s attack explicitly defied the community’s united call for peace. “I have tremendous respect and admiration for law enforcement officers for going to work every day fully willing to give up their own lives to protect complete strangers. In return, we have an obligation to help keep them safe in the line of duty. Attacks and threats against police officers cannot be tolerated, and Congress should consider legislation like the Back the Blue Act to better protect our law enforcement officials and make criminals think twice before targeting them.” Last week, Senator Tillis joined Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) to introduce the Back the Blue Act, legislation that would increase penalties against violent criminals who intentionally target law enforcement officers, provide new tools to help law enforcement protect themselves, and open up grant funding to strengthen relationships between law enforcement and their communities. ###
07.15.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the Bastille Day terrorist attack in Nice, France: “Susan and I are praying for the people of France as they bravely confront yet another horrific terrorist attack against their great nation. The bloodshed in Nice was clearly perpetrated by those who have a violent contempt for free and democratic societies, and America will continue to stand with our ally France, united in our resolve to rid the world of this evil savagery.”
07.15.2016	Last night, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed Kevin and Avonte’s Law, legislation co-sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) that provides resources to help families locate loved ones with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, or other related conditions that make them prone to wander—sometimes with tragic results. Kevin and Avonte’s Law reauthorizes the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program and authorizes funding to be used for the purchase of tracking technology that helps the families of a child with developmental disabilities recover their child in the event they become separated. “I’m pleased to see the Senate unanimously pass Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which will help save lives and give families across America a greater peace of mind,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation has a deep personal meaning for me, as I was a caregiver for my grandmother during her battle with Alzheimer’s disease. We should be moving heaven and earth to help families and caregivers reunite with loved ones who wander and disappear, and Kevin and Avonte’s Law can truly make a difference in preventing tragedies.” “There have been too many tragic cases of special needs children and adults wandering away from their caregivers with heartbreaking results,” said Senator Burr. “We need to take additional steps to protect these vulnerable individuals. Law enforcement and families need better tools to locate those with special needs when they are in danger. Think of the kids and adults who will be safer as a result of this legislation. I am pleased the Senate has finally passed this bill, and I urge the House of Representatives to swiftly follow suit.” Kevin and Avonte’s Law has been endorsed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the Alzheimer’s Association, American Society on Aging, Autism Speaks, The Arc, National Autism Association, Safe Minds, and other organizations.
07.14.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) again joined Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Joni Ernst (R-IA), and Steve Daines (R-MT) in a colloquy on the Senate floor to call on Minority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Democrats to end their filibuster of the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill. Senate Democrats have voted repeatedly to prevent the Senate from even debating the legislation. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FLOOR SPEECH HERE. “I am doing my job by questioning Senate Democrats who went into committee and voted for this bill, went home and told everyone they are supporting our troops, and now won’t do their job and vote for precisely the same bill,” said Senator Tillis. “The Minority Leader needs to stop playing games and let Senate Democrats vote on this bill and do their job.” The legislation had unanimous support from Democrat and Republican members in committee, but has been blocked by Minority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Democrats. As all of the members said in the colloquy, this filibuster comes at a time when we have seen dramatic developments, just in the past week, relating to global security — North Korean submarine missile test, the deployment of 560 additional troops to Iraq, continued provocations by Russia, Chinese live-fire exercises in the South China Sea, and the President’s announcement that more troops will be staying in Afghanistan than he previously committed. ###
07.13.2016	Yesterday, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Joni Ernst (R-IA), and Steve Daines (R-MT) joined in a colloquy on the Senate floor to speak about the Democratic filibuster of the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill. The funding bill came out of the Senate Committee on Appropriations with the unanimous support of Democrat and Republican members. However, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid said that his members are blocking critical funding for our troops so that his party wouldn’t be at the “mercy” of Republicans. As all of the members said in the colloquy, this filibuster comes at a time when we have seen dramatic developments, just in the past week, relating to global security — North Korean submarine missile test, the deployment of 560 additional troops to Iraq, continued provocations by Russia, Chinese live-fire exercises in the South China Sea, and the President’s announcement that more troops will be staying in Afghanistan than he previously committed. Click here to watch video. “The Democratic conference has decided to say ‘no’ to funding our troops. They have decided to say ‘no’ to funding important training that is necessary to make sure they can complete highly dangerous and complex missions wherever a threat may occur,” said Senator Tillis. “There are more than 100,000 active duty soldiers in North Carolina. What do I tell them when I go home? In spite of all of these threats, politics is above the principal of funding our troops and protecting our nation? This is politics at its worst. We need to send this bill to the President’s desk and show respect to the men and women who have sworn an oath to lay down their life for the cost of freedom.” “In one of the most volatile times in our history, Minority Leader Harry Reid is blocking this critical funding to try and gain political leverage. It’s a disgrace,” Senator Sullivan said. “Our enemies and our adversaries are the ones who truly gain leverage when we in Congress don’t commit to funding our troops. I call on my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to do the right thing for our troops and for our national security.” “The fact that we would reject funding for our forward deployed soldiers is appalling to me,” said Senator Ernst. “These are my brothers and sisters. These are my friends, my neighbors, my colleagues. They are fighting on behalf of the United States. But the United States is now turning its back, with a filibuster, on these troops. How dare our colleagues block a bill to fund our military while our troops are deployed.” "We need to make sure our military forces have the tools they need to win,” said Senator Daines. “Our enemies aren’t waiting around for Senate Democrats to fund our military to make it a fair fight.” ###
07.13.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the Senate’s passage of the conference report of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), bipartisan legislation that gives local communities and law enforcement officials more tools and resources to combat opioid addiction. Senator Tillis is a co-sponsor of the legislation, which now heads to President Obama’s desk for his signature. In 2014, 1,358 North Carolinians died from drug overdoses, more than the number who died from automobile accidents. A recent CDC report showed that people are 40 times more likely to be addicted to heroin if they are addicted to prescription painkillers. “Too many North Carolina families are familiar with the devastation drug addiction can have on once promising lives. I’m proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan effort to address painkiller and heroin addiction head-on by providing resources to assist substance abuse agencies, local governments, first responders and non-profit organizations in areas that are being hit the hardest by this epidemic,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m particularly pleased that CARA addresses the strain that the addiction crisis places on our criminal justice system by providing more resources to identify and treat incarcerated Americans, helping put them on the path to recovery.”
07.13.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the Senate’s passage of legislation reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The bill now heads to the President’s desk. “I am pleased the Senate could come together and pass bipartisan legislation that takes needed steps to strengthen security at American airports, and also aims to decrease the long wait times for passengers going through TSA checkpoints.” The legislation, which extends authorization of the FAA until September 30, 2017, also does the following: Implements measures to address cybersecurity risks to the aviation system Strengthens mental health screening for pilots Implements measures to expand the TSA PreCheck program and optimize security checkpoints to reduce wait times at airports across the United States Strengthens security for foreign airports serving the United States Bolsters security standards for flights headed to the United States from high risk airports Increases employee vetting standards to mitigate insider threat to aviation security
07.13.2016	Bill would increase penalties against violent criminals who deliberately target law enforcement WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) to introduce the Back the Blue Act, a bill that would increase penalties against violent criminals who intentionally target law enforcement officers, provide new tools to help law enforcement protect themselves, and open up grant funding to strengthen relationships between law enforcement and their communities. “The tragedy in Dallas demonstrated why wearing the blue uniform is one of the toughest and most dangerous jobs in America, and why so many of our law enforcement officers go to work every day not knowing whether they’ll return home safely to their families,” Senator Tillis said. “Our law enforcement officers risk their lives to protect ours, and the Back the Blue Act will enact new laws that offer them much-needed support and will make criminals think twice before targeting them. Additionally, the Back the Blue Act takes a critically important step toward building and strengthening relationships between law enforcement and the communities in which they serve.” “Law enforcement officers selflessly put their lives on the line every day to protect our communities, and in return they deserve our unparalleled support for the irreplaceable role they serve,” Senator Cornyn said. “The Back the Blue Act sends a clear message that our criminal justice system simply will not tolerate those who viciously and deliberately target our law enforcement. As our country continues to grieve following last week’s tragedy in Dallas, we must come together in support of those who risk everything to keep us safe.” “The sacrifice and bravery of law enforcement officers in the face of danger are part of the basic fabric that keeps our society together,” Senator Cruz said. “This bill better protects our nation’s finest by providing stronger tools for the prosecution of those who would harm law enforcement. We must stand in solidarity with our police officers, firefighters, first responders, and federal officers who selflessly run into harm’s way to protect our families and our communities. This should not be a partisan issue. This should be an issue that brings us together, united as Americans. I’m proud to stand with the men and women of American law enforcement and urge all of my Senate colleagues to do the same.” Background on the Back the Blue Act Creates New Criminal Provisions to Protect Law Enforcement Officers Creates a new federal crime for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally-funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to the death penalty and a mandatory minimum sentence of 30 years for murder and a minimum sentence of 10 years for attempted murder. Creates a new federal crime for assaulting a federally-funded law enforcement officer, with escalating penalties including mandatory minimums, based on the extent of any injury and the use of a dangerous weapon. Creates a new federal crime for interstate flight to avoid prosecution for killing, attempting to kill, or conspiring to kill a federal judge, federal law enforcement officer, or federally-funded public safety officer. The offender would be subject to a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years. Creates a Specific Aggravating Factor for Federal Death Penalty Prosecutions Clarifies that the murder or attempted murder of a law enforcement officer or first responder is a statutory aggravating factor for purposes of the federal death penalty. Opens Up Grant Funding to Help Strengthen Relationships Between Law Enforcement and Their Communities Expands opportunities to use grant funding to promote trust and improve relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve. Expands Self-Defense and Second Amendment Rights for Law Enforcement Officers Allows law enforcement officers, subject to limited regulation, to carry firearms into federal facilities and other jurisdictions where such possession is otherwise prohibited. Limits Federal Habeas Relief for Murders of Law Enforcement Officers Imposes time and substantive limits on federal courts’ review of challenges to state-court convictions for crimes involving the murder of a public safety officer when the officer was performing official duties. These changes are consistent with the fast-track procedures created in 1996, which are applied to federal death penalty cases. Limits Recovery of Certain Civil Damages and Fees for Individuals Engaged in Felonies Limits the type of civil damages and attorney’s fees recoverable by a criminal as a result of purported injuries incurred during the commission of a felony or crime of violence. ###
07.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) introduced The Boosting Rates of American Veterans Employment Act (BRAVE Act), bipartisan legislation to support job creation for America’s veterans. “I’m proud to join Senator Baldwin to introduce bipartisan legislation to support the businesses that support our veterans,” said Senator Tillis. “Veterans bring tremendous leadership capabilities and work ethic to the private sector, and the BRAVE Act is a major win for both veterans and employers who hire them.” “America’s veterans have bravely served our nation and we have a shared responsibility to make sure their service and sacrifice is honored,” said Senator Baldwin. “The BRAVE Act is a bipartisan reform that can help reduce the unemployment rate for veterans and create jobs for them. I am proud to work across party lines and reward businesses that are putting our veterans to work.” The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) establishes long-term contracts with private businesses for medical equipment, supplies, services and more. Currently, the VA gives preference for these contracts to veteran-owned small businesses, however it does not give preference to businesses that actively employ veterans. The BRAVE Act would change that by allowing the VA to consider the proportion of veterans employed by a prospective contractor when awarding federal contracts. The VA Secretary would have the authority to give preference to businesses that employ veterans on a full-time basis, and the VA would determine the preference for a business based on their percentage of full-time veteran employees.‎ The bipartisan legislation would also encourage and incentivize VA contractors to employ veterans, and would provide oversight of VA contractors and would require 5-year debarment from contracting for those who knowingly misrepresent their proportion of veteran employees. The BRAVE Act is supported by The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. ###
07.12.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that the Pentagon is failing to meet the Army’s paratrooper training requirements at Fort Bragg, making it clear that Air Force leadership broke its promise when it claimed that dismantling the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield would not undermine the training and readiness capabilities of the Army. Such capabilities are paramount to the military’s ability to respond to global threats at a moment’s notice. In May 2016, the Air Force conducted only 4,821 jumps, or 48 percent of the Army’s paratrooper jump requirement. Parachute Jumps at Fort Bragg – May 2016 Exited Required % of Required Parachute Jumps 4,821 10,000 48% In a February 4, 2016 letter sent to Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain, Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James and then Acting Secretary of the Army Patrick Murphy explicitly promised that removing the C-130H presence from Fort Bragg would not hamper training requirements: “Without dedicated C-130 wings, the Air Force will continue to meet training and contingency support requirements of the 18th Airborne Corps, 82nd Airborne Division, and U.S. Army Special Operations Command with no adverse effect to these units’ daily training requirements or readiness.” It is now clear their reassurances were nothing more than empty words. To put the 4,821 jumps in May of 2016 into context, the XVIII Airborne Corps has been clear that it requires 10,000 parachute jumps a month to maintain proficiency. Army regulations state that 8,000 jumps a month are the minimum to keep the Sky Dragons and the All American Division current. “I warned at the time that the removal of the 440th created unreasonable risks to the readiness of critical airborne units, which must be prepared to respond to a range of contingencies on short notice,” said Senator Tillis. “The Pentagon claimed that following the deactivation of the 440th, out-of-state aircraft would support all airlift requirements for Fort Bragg. The Pentagon asked us to suspend disbelief, and this reassurance has fallen woefully short. The Air Force has missed the Army’s minimum jump requirements every month this year, threatening the training and readiness of America’s Global Response Force.”
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after several Dallas, Texas, police officers were tragically shot and killed: “What happened in Dallas, Texas, was a horrific, targeted attack against the city’s law enforcement community. My heart goes to the families of the police officers who were murdered, and I am praying for the recovery of the officers who were shot and are now fighting for their lives. “I am proud of North Carolina’s law enforcement community and grateful for the brave men and women in blue who risk their lives every single day to patrol our streets, protect our communities, and keep our families safe. One of the great privileges I’ve had as North Carolina’s senator is visiting police stations across the state and personally thanking our officers for the selfless risks and sacrifices they make for all North Carolinians. Wearing the blue uniform is one of the toughest and most dangerous jobs in America. They are the heroes of our local communities, and they deserve our respect and admiration. We must support our law enforcement, and I will continue to support efforts like The Thin Blue Line Act to strengthen the penalties for criminals who attempt to cause harm to our brave law enforcement officials and first responders.” ###
07.08.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), Fayetteville Mayor Nat Robertson, and Jacksonville Mayor Sammy Phillips praised the U.S. Census Bureau’s decision to count U.S. military personnel who are deployed outside the U.S. and are living on or off a military installation outside the U.S. as residents of the state where they live and sleep most of the time. Previously, the Census counted deployed servicemembers as residents of states they lived in at the time they originally enlisted for service. For more than a year, Senator Tillis has been encouraging the U.S. Census Bureau to make this change, meeting with director John Thompson several times to make the case in person. He also called for a public hearing in Fayetteville, which was held in August 2015 and attended by members of Senator Tillis’ staff, Fayetteville Mayor Nat Robertson, Jacksonville Mayor Sammy Phillips, members of the Fayetteville City Council, Cumberland County commissioners and Onslow County commissioners. The changes to the 2020 census mean that all soldiers, airmen and Marines from North Carolina’s military installations will be counted in the decennial census as residents of the state, regardless of whether or not they are deployed abroad. The undercounting of servicemembers cost North Carolina, the ninth largest state in the nation, a new congressional seat following the 2010 census. Most importantly, since many federal tax dollars are proportional to population, North Carolina would benefit from additional Department of Education, transportation, and agriculture funding as a result of an increased population in the 2020 census. “So many of our brave servicemembers live here in North Carolina, vote here, pay taxes here, and send their children to school here. They deserve to be counted as residents of our state,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m ecstatic that the U.S. Census Bureau implemented my recommendation to count servicemembers as residents of the state in which they live most of the time, particularly important for a state like North Carolina blessed with a proud and significant military community and home to America’s Global Response Force and 45 percent of the Marine Corps.” “The change in the Census count is potentially a great boost to our economies, both statewide and local,” said Fayetteville Mayor Nat Robertson. “By more accurately tracking our Heroes serving our Country based or deployed out of North Carolina, we will all benefit." “An accurate count of the military in our community is vital for providing services to accommodate our military personnel and their families,” said Jacksonville Mayor Sammy Phillips. “We estimate that more than 20,000 persons were not counted accurately in our community during the last Census. This presented major concerns for our community. Senator Tillis listened to our concerns and now there is a solution.”
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, spoke on the Senate floor in support of a bipartisan proposal to protect the use of agriculture biotechnology and ensure that American consumers have access to vital food information, including whether or not the food is a biotechnology product. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FLOOR SPEECH HERE. “What this bill does is avoid the confusion when a state implements a law that becomes de-facto federal law of the land and increases the cost of prices to consumers,” said Senator Tillis. “I don't want the people of North Carolina to pay $1,100 for the same food they bought last year because of these state mandated labeling requirements.” “This is an opportunity to get something done that makes sense, that removes the threat of raising food costs while not producing one iota increase in health outcomes. I hope that my friends on both sides of the aisle recognize this is an opportunity where we can prove to the people of this nation we can actually get things done,” said Senator Tillis. “This is a compromise. This is something that my friends on the right do not necessarily like and some of my friends on the left don't like, but it’s right. And it’s necessary now so that we can protect the people who don’t know if this bill doesn’t get passed, they’re going to be paying more food for no more value.” The bipartisan legislation prohibits states from mandating labels on food that is genetically engineered. Mandates like the recent Vermont labeling law effectively serve as regulation on all other states, significantly increasing food prices for American families. The Senate legislation would also establish a national disclosure standard for food that may be bioengineered, and requires mandatory disclosure with several options, including text on a package or a link to a website (including a QR code). ###
07.07.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, took the Senate floor and called on Senate Democrats to stop blocking the VA/Military Construction Appropriations bill, which also includes $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FLOOR SPEECH HERE. “This bill provides critical funding for veterans housing, their disability compensation, suicide hotlines, treatment for PTSD, and for opioid addiction treatment,” said Senator Tillis. “The other provision of the bill has to do with something that's desperately needed in our nation, and it's funding and taking seriously the threat of the Zika virus. We need to work quickly to get a vaccine and make sure we're funding research efforts so we can win the fight against Zika. We stand ready as the Republicans and the majority to provide this funding, but it appears as though because we've reached this political impasse that would put Americans’ health and safety at risk.” “The fact that we're having this discussion, the fact that we can't get it, the fact that time is running out and we have to get it done next week is ridiculous,” added Senator Tillis. “Let's do what we have to do to keep America safe. Let's stop the partisan politics, let's get this bill to the president's desk, and then let's move on to the many other things the American people expect us to tackle while we are in session.” The Senate previously passed the combined Transportation-HUD and Military Construction-VA Appropriations Act by a vote of 89-8, with every Senate Democrat present voting in favor.
07.06.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement in response to Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s announcement regarding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of private email servers: “Attorney General Lynch should not have been the person to make this decision after her meeting with President Bill Clinton last week, which was a lapse of judgment that created the appearance of a conflict of interest and makes any claim of impartiality insincere. Attorney General Lynch should have recused herself and appointed a special counsel who would be impartial. “It is clear that Secretary Clinton broke the law and endangered our national security through the use of her private email servers, and the American people deserve full transparency of how and why the FBI and Justice Department came to their conclusion. No person should be above the law. “If one wonders why the American people have lost faith in their government, this charade explains why. Over the coming days and weeks, Congress will be exercising its oversight authority to help get the American people the information and answers they deserve.”
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on his support for the Stop Dangerous Sanctuary Cities Act and “Kate’s Law”: “It is inconceivable that cities across the United States, including in North Carolina, blatantly ignore federal immigration laws and harbor dangerous criminals who are here illegally. We have an obligation to enforce the law and prevent tragic incidents like what happened to Kate Steinle from occurring in the future. I supported the Stop Dangerous Sanctuary Cities Act and “Kate’s Law” because it would have cracked down on violent criminals here illegally, deterred dangerous illegal immigrants from reentering the country after being deported, and kept Americans safe.” Senate Democrats voted to block both pieces of legislation from proceeding. The Stop Dangerous Sanctuary Cities Act would prohibit a sanctuary jurisdiction from receiving grants under certain Economic Development Assistance Programs and the Community Development Block Grant Program. “Kate’s Law,” named after Kate Steinle who was killed in San Francisco by an illegal immigrant who had previously been convicted of seven felonies and deported five times, provides a five-year mandatory minimum sentence for any illegal immigrant who re-enters the United States after having been convicted of an aggravated felony or after having been twice convicted of illegally re-entering the United States. ###
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, welcomed President Obama’s decision to leave 8,400 American troops in Afghanistan for the rest of the year, issuing the following statement: “President Obama’s initial plan to withdraw American troops from Afghanistan would have been a grave strategic mistake that would have emboldened a resurgent Taliban and rising ISIS, making an unstable security situation even worse and imperiling the national security of the United States. I am glad President Obama reversed his plan and will instead maintain current troop levels, which will assist the Afghan people in their efforts to rid their nation of Islamic extremism.” ###
07.06.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the passage of a House bill to delay payment cuts for rural Dural Medical Equipment (DME) providers in non-competitive bid areas. The House bill also contains the language of The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act, bipartisan legislation Senators Tillis and Tom Carper (D-DE) originally introduced last year that excludes payments from state eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining federal benefits. Representatives Patrick McHenry (NC-10) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) introduced the House companion version of the bill. The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act will help assist living eugenics victims receiving state-provided compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal public benefits such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, and SSI-Disabled. Without this legislation, many eugenics victims who receive state-provided compensation payments could see their federal benefits reduced or even have their eligibility eliminated. “I’m pleased the House has acted on legislation to ensure living eugenics victims who receive state-provided compensation payments will not have their federal benefits unintentionally cut because of a legal loophole,” said Senator Tillis. “Time is of the essence, and in order to avoid any unintended negative consequences for eugenics victims, I hope the Senate will pass this legislation so it can be signed into law as soon as possible.”
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the FBI’s announcement regarding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of private email servers: “Indictment or no indictment, it’s clear that Secretary Hillary Clinton’s use of private email servers endangered America’s national security interests and reveals a stunning lack of judgment that is unbecoming of any top administration official.” ###
07.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement regarding Independence Day this Monday: “Independence Day is a time to think about the many freedoms we enjoy and how we got here. I want to thank all the men and women currently in the Armed Forces who are willing to defend our freedoms, as well as the many veterans across our state who were willing to pay the ultimate sacrifice to make sure we can continue to live free in the greatest nation that ever existed.” WATCH THE VIDEO HERE. ###
07.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Ted Cruz (R-TX) recently sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, expressing grave concerns over Undersecretary of State Thomas Shannon’s recent trip to Venezuela. The Senators questioned the Administration’s engagement with President Nicolas Maduro given his regime’s human rights violations, disastrous economic policies, and anti-American rhetoric. “Secretary Kerry, if we have learned anything from the deteriorating condition of human rights in Cuba following the Obama administration’s engagement with Fidel and Raul Castro, it is that unconditional outreach to totalitarian regimes does little to curb their human rights abuses,” the senators wrote. “Rather, it emboldens them to escalate their oppression without fear of any reprisal from the United States. In fact, Maduro appears to have detained two additional opposition figures, Francisco "Pancho" Marquez Lara and Gabriel San Miguel, either while Mr. Shannon was still in Venezuela or immediately after his departure. “Rather than propping up Maduro’s failed and oppressive regime, now might be the moment for the United States to stand unequivocally with the political opposition forces he is trying to silence.” Read the letter in its entirety below: July 1, 2016 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State US Department of State 2201 C St. NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, We write regarding our grave concerns over Undersecretary of State Thomas Shannon’s recent trip to Venezuela, which was apparently undertaken at your express direction. While Mr. Shannon noted briefly in his press availability on June 24th that he met with “civil society representatives and opposition leaders” in Caracas, he also admitted he had gotten no “concessions” from the government of Venezuela and was far more forthcoming with details on his engagement with President Nicolás Maduro and his regime, including his efforts to establish a “dialogue” with them that would “build bridges” and “create common understanding.” It is inexplicable that you would voluntarily favor Maduro with such a high-level, official delegation to Caracas at this time, especially as Mr. Shannon’s previous visits in April and May, 2015, resulted in no discernable improvement in the Venezuelan President’s behavior. Following in the footsteps of his predecessor, Hugo Chavez, his disastrous economic policies have brought his once proud and prosperous nation to its knees, with citizens scrounging in the streets for the most basic necessities of life. Maduro’s anti-American rhetoric has been every bit as offensive as Chavez’ was. He is threatening to dissolve Venezuela’s duly elected National Assembly. His human rights violations are well documented and have been penalized by the United States. Given the dire predicament the Maduro regime has created for itself, the government of the United States might have set requirements before Mr. Shannon’s visit, such as the unconditional release of the dozens of political prisoners languishing in Maduro’s prisons including opposition leader Leopoldo López, who has served two years of a thirteen-year sentence on trumped up charges, former Caracas Mayor Antonio Ledezma and former presidential candidate Manuel Rosales. Secretary Kerry, if we have learned anything from the deteriorating condition of human rights in Cuba following the Obama administration’s engagement with Fidel and Raul Castro, it is that unconditional outreach to totalitarian regimes does little to curb their human rights abuses. Rather, it emboldens them to escalate their oppression without fear of any reprisal from the United States. In fact, Maduro appears to have detained two additional opposition figures, Francisco "Pancho" Marquez Lara and Gabriel San Miguel, either while Mr. Shannon was still in Venezuela or immediately after his departure. Rather than propping up Maduro’s failed and oppressive regime, now might be the moment for the United States to stand unequivocally with the political opposition forces he is trying to silence. For this reason, we would like some additional details regarding your outreach policy towards Caracas before any of the additional meetings Mr. Shannon said he hoped to set occur, and before there is any exchange of ambassadors as Maduro proposed: 1. Who, exactly, are the “civil society representatives and opposition leaders” with whom Mr. Shannon met? 2. What sort of assurances did you get from the Maduro regime that they would improve their human rights record? 3. Did Mr. Shannon impress upon Maduro consequences for failing to improve this record, such as expulsion from the Organization of American States and/or sustained public support from the United States for a recall referendum on his presidency before the end of 2016? 4. How would the “constructive bilateral relationship” between the United States and Maduro proposed by Mr. Shannon function absent any changes in his oppressive and authoritarian Socialist policies? 5. How do you imagine the legitimization of Maduro’s rule represented by Mr. Shannon’s visit will improve the plight of the Venezuelan people? If for any reason you consider this information sensitive we would of course be available to receive a classified briefing on this important issue. We look forward to your response no later than July 15, 2016. Sincerely, Ted Cruz United States Senator Thom Tillis United States Senator ###
07.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to ISIS’ terrorist attack in Dhaka, Bangladesh: “I pray for the safety of the people of Bangladesh, as well as the tourists and diplomats who appear to be among the targets of ISIS’ attack in Dhaka, only a mile away from the American embassy. “With horrific acts of terror being carried out in Turkey and Bangladesh in the span of a week, radical Islamic terrorists are sending a message that they seek to kill innocent lives in Muslim-majority countries, in addition to bringing their violence to the United States and Europe. Jihadi-inspired attacks are occurring in every corner of the globe, and it’s clear that the time is long overdue for a decisive strategy to annihilate radical Islamic terrorists and their ability to carry out and inspire attacks.” ###
06.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to the terrorist attack on the Istanbul Ataturk Airport in Turkey: “My heart goes out to the people of Turkey following the horrific terrorist attack in Istanbul. This attack is a reminder that ISIS is a death cult that seeks to murder anyone—including Muslims—who refuses to accept their radical, dystopian interpretation of Islam. It is also reminder that the world is in desperate need of a coherent strategy to annihilate ISIS in the Middle East and diminish their capability to both inspire and directly perpetrate attacks against the United States and our allies.” ###
06.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after Senate Democratic leaders blocked critical legislation that would fund the Department of Veterans Affairs and provide $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus: “It’s incredibly irresponsible for Senate Democratic leaders to block funding to support our veterans and combat the Zika virus – the very same amount of funding every single Democrat agreed to earlier this spring. Despite claiming Zika funding was their top priority, Democratic leaders are now looking for any excuse to turn this into a partisan political game in midst of an election year. The Zika virus is already in the United States and has the potential of quickly becoming a public health crisis, and it’s time for Democratic leaders to stop with their reckless political games and put the safety of the American people first.” ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA) and several of his Republican and Democratic colleagues on the Senate floor to speak in support of the Veterans First Act, bipartisan legislation that would give the VA the tools it needs to fire bad actors, prohibit bonuses for employees accused of wrongdoing, and institute protections for whistleblowers. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ SPEECH HERE. Tillis spoke out specifically against Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s recent announcement that the Department of Justice would no longer defend a provision of the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014, neglecting its expedited removal authority to hold disgraced VA senior executives accountable. The Obama Administration’s actions pave the way for the reinstatement of former VA executive Sharon Helman, who was fired for her role in the wait time cover-up scandal at the Phoenix VA and has plead guilty to failing to report $50,000 in gifts she received from a lobbyist seeking to conduct business with the VA. The Veterans First Act is the only piece of pending accountability legislation that would withstand the constitutional challenge raised against current VA accountability law. Senator Tillis co-sponsored the bill, which was passed unanimously by the Senate VA Committee. “We have to increase accountability at the VA,” said Senator Tillis. “Yet, we are now hearing Attorney General Loretta Lynch, in consultation with the President, has decided not to defend The Veterans Choice Act against a constitutional challenge, and the VA has decided to no longer use its expedited removal authority to hold senior executives accountable. We need to get back to what we tried to accomplish in The Veterans Choice Act, fire people who are not doing their job, fire people who are being unethical, and fire people who are not putting veterans at the top of their list.” “The VA exists for providing the care that veterans deserve, and they should get it on a timely basis,” added Senator Tillis. “When there are no reasonable excuses for some of these wait times and we find it’s the people who are causing the problem, then those people should be held accountable and be terminated…It is time for us to pass The Veterans First Act and put veterans first, and I want to thank my colleagues who share this view.” ###
06.21.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Senator Tom Carper (D-DE), the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, applauded the House for passing S. 2133, the Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Bill. The bill will help federal agencies to better detect and crackdown on fraud, which is derived not just from a mistake, but by actual intent to steal from the taxpayers or misuse federal funds. The bipartisan bill, introduced by Senators Carper and Tillis and cosponsored by Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), requires the Office of Management and Budget, in coordination with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), to issue guidelines for agencies to establish and implement controls to prevent, detect and respond to fraud. The bill, which was passed unanimously by the Senate in April, will now head to the President’s desk for his signature. “I’m pleased that both the House and Senate came together to pass bipartisan legislation that will require more accountability for federal agencies and better protect Americans and their hard-earned tax dollars from the risk of fraud,” said Senator Tillis. “Utilizing the success of the private sector in fighting waste and fraud, we will help protect federal taxpayer-supported programs by identifying vulnerabilities and closing the gaps.” “This bill, among other things, requires federal officials to determine what areas of government spending are at the greatest risk for fraud, develop an action plan to address vulnerabilities and then share those solutions with other agencies dealing with similar programs,” said Senator Carper. “This commonsense legislation will help to ensure that federal agencies do a better job managing federal programs and delivering services more efficiently and at a lower cost to taxpayers. I thank my colleagues in the House for advancing this bipartisan legislation today and Senator Tillis and our cosponsors in the Senate for working with me on this important issue.” Specifically, the Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Bill creates a working group to improve the sharing of information on best practices, data analytics and techniques among agencies to better detect and prevent fraud in real time rather than during the end of the year audit.
06.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in support of an amendment to the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill that would prevent suspected terrorists from purchasing firearms and provide law enforcement with more tools to prevent future attacks. The amendment was blocked by Democrats. The amendment, introduced by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX), would give the attorney general the authority to delay the purchase of a firearm for up to three business days for suspected terrorists or individuals investigated for terrorism over the last five years. Federal, state, and local law enforcement officials would be notified immediately so they could monitor the situation, and the Justice Department could seek a court order to block the sale of the firearm. Unlike an amendment that was offered by Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), the Cornyn amendment would uphold the due process rights of American citizens. “It is disappointing the Senate was unable to pass a commonsense, constitutional measure that would give law enforcement officials more tools and authority to help keep firearms out of the hands of terrorists,” said Senator Tillis. “While some in Washington unfortunately seem intent on advancing an incredibly polarizing agenda, all members of Congress need to start working together, within the framework of the Constitution, to address the threat posed by radical Islamic terrorists both at home and abroad.” ###
06.20.2016	MEDS Act Would Eliminate Excessive Obstacles That Make it Difficult for Researchers to Conduct Valid Medical Studies WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Brian Schatz (D-HI), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), and Chris Coons (D-DE) to introduce the Marijuana Effective Drug Studies (MEDS) Act of 2016, bipartisan legislation that would make it easier for researchers to study the medical effectiveness and safety of marijuana. Similar legislation is being introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Reps. Andy Harris (R-MD), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), H. Morgan Griffith (R-A), and Sam Farr (D-CA). “When it comes to our nation’s efforts to cure diseases and improve the quality of life for people suffering from ailments, burdensome government regulations shouldn’t be an impediment to legitimate and responsible medical research,” said Senator Tillis. “The MEDS Act is a commonsense, bipartisan effort to remove unnecessary barriers that will give scientists the ability to study the biochemical processes, impact, dosing, risks and possible benefits of cannabidiol and other components of the marijuana plant.” “The medical community agrees that we need more research to learn about marijuana’s potential health benefits, but our federal laws today are standing in the way of that inquiry,” said Senator Schatz. “The MEDS Act will remove excessive barriers that make it difficult for researchers to study the effectiveness and safety of marijuana, and hopefully, give patients more treatment options.” “While many patients have high hopes for the medical benefits of marijuana, further clinical research is needed to inform the decisions of policy makers regarding access to marijuana,” said Senator Hatch. “This bill makes targeted changes to the Controlled Substances Act to address specific barriers that encumber medical researchers requesting approval of marijuana research protocols or seeking plant strains for clinical studies. This joint legislative effort between the House and Senate will eliminate redundancies in the regulatory process and enable needed research to better understand the potential medical uses of marijuana.” “When it comes to Americans’ health and well-being, our public policy should be based on scientific research – not outdated assumptions,” said Senator Coons. “Dozens of states across the country, including my home state of Delaware, have shown that medical marijuana laws can be implemented safely and effectively. With more and more states across the country considering similar policies — an evolution backed by changing public opinion — federal barriers to conducting medical research simply make no sense. When it comes to public health and safety, the federal government should be promoting policies that seek new information and understanding – not standing in the way of science.” There is a lack of research evaluating the benefits and risks of the therapeutic compounds extracted from the marijuana plant as a possible medication, in large part because of federal barriers that block valuable scientific and clinical research. As a result, millions of Americans are using a drug for medical purposes without scientific guidance with regards to its effectiveness, safety, dosing, route of administration, or standards for quality control. The MEDS Act promotes scientific research and mitigates a significant public health risk. The MEDS Act is supported by the American Medical Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, American Society of Addiction Medicine, American Preventive Medical Association, American Pain Society, American Society of Anesthesiologists, American Academy of Pain Medicine, Smart Approaches to Marijuana, Child Neurology Foundation, Child Neurology Society, and Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine. ###
06.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that several North Carolina-specific provisions he requested have been secured in the FY2017 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, a measure to fund federal land management agencies and environmental infrastructure accounts. “I’m pleased that several of my commonsense measures to protect North Carolina communities and landowners were included in the Interior Appropriations Bill,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I’m also glad that it includes a provision supported by Senator Burr and me to help save North Carolina’s Corolla Wild Horses, at no cost to American taxpayers.” Provisions supported by Senator Tillis in the FY2017 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill include: Protecting North Carolina Landowners (Tillis) Tillis’ provision recognizes the North Carolina Wildlife Commission’s request to end the Red Wolf Recovery Program because of the failure to reach population goals. The provision requires the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) to coordinate with North Carolina Wildlife Commission on decisions related to the future of the program. Since it was created several years ago, the Red Wolf Recovery Program has failed to meet population recovery goals for the red wolf and has negatively affected North Carolina landowners and the populations of several other native species. Earlier this month, Senator Tillis visited Aurora, North Carolina, to meet with key stakeholders who are harmed by the program. Preventing The Government From Revising Its Nantahala and Pisgah National Forests Management Plans (Tillis) The Tillis provision clarifies that the Secretary of Agriculture is not required to revise the forest management plan for our national forests simply because 15 years have elapsed. The provision requires the secretary to act in good faith within funding available to revise plans for units of our national forest system if it does revise a forest management plan. Previously, the USFS has been using this ability to treat lands as if they are wilderness and implement certain restrictions, essentially working around Congress’ prerogative to limit the designations of wilderness areas. Additionally, the USFS has not fully engaged state and local officials and the local community who oppose any proposals to designate additional land in and around the Nantahala and Pisgah National Forests as wilderness or wilderness study areas. Saving The Corolla Wild Horse Population (Burr/Tillis) Senators Burr and Tillis secured a provision, which within 180 days of enactment, requires the State of North Carolina, Currituck County, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and Corolla Wild Horse Fund to develop a management plan to grow the horse population to a number no fewer than 110 and no greater than 130 horses by allowing for the introduction of related horses from a nearby herd. It clarifies that the Corolla Wild Horse fund pays all costs associated with managing the horses. Protecting The Viewshed At Bald Head Island (Burr/Tillis) Senators Burr and Tillis secured a provision prohibiting the Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management from issuing wind leases offshore that would allow for wind turbines to be built or located less than 24 nautical miles from the North Carolina shoreline. A North Carolina State University study conducted in 2013 found that the presence of visible offshore wind turbine generators will cause a major reduction in vacationers willing to rent homes in coastal North Carolina. The study predicted a local reduction in tourism of 55 percent. ###
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate passed the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), legislation that funds the military, provides servicemembers with pay raises, and reforms TRICARE, the health care system for servicemembers, reservists, and their family members. “The NDAA reaffirms our nation’s commitment to fully funding our brave men and women in uniform and providing support to military families who already make tremendous sacrifices on behalf of our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that my provisions to improve the rapid deployment capabilities of Fort Bragg, reform TRICARE, and close a loophole that will make it easier for military spouses to obtain employment were all included in the NDAA. When this bipartisan legislation lands on the President’s desk, he has an obligation to quickly sign it into law to send a clear message to the world that the leaders of the United States are united when it comes to supporting our troops and strengthening our military.” The Senate version of the NDAA contains several provisions secured by Senator Tillis aimed at supporting North Carolina’s military installations and servicemembers, which include: Advancing The Extension of The Pope Airfield Runway To protect Fort Bragg’s rapid deployment capabilities, Tillis’ provision requires the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, to submit a report to the Senate outlining plans to extend the runway at Pope Airfield and to indicate whether such project is a priority for the Army. Currently, C-17 and C-5 airlifts cannot depart from Pope Airfield fully fueled with a full load of paratroopers due to the current 8,500 foot takeoff length of the runway. Fully loaded C-17s and C-5s require a takeoff length of 10,500 feet, and 11,500 feet, respectively. Supporting Military Spouses By Helping Them Gain Federal Employment Tillis’ provision would have an immediate impact on the quality of life for many military spouses and their families by closing the two-year time limit loophole for military spouses who receive a permanent change of station order and seek federal employment on the new base. Currently, a military spouse only has two years to invoke the military spouse preference from the date of the service member’s permanent change of station orders, which are issued well in advance of a military family arriving at a new duty station. Combined with the demands of raising children, adjusting to new surroundings, and the actual availability of federal jobs, many military spouses have missed consideration for employment or have had job offers withdrawn because they lost eligibility. Reforming the TRICARE system by increasing collaboration between the military and private sector Establishment of high performance military-civilian integrated health delivery systems. The Tillis provision would improve health outcomes and enhance the experience of care for beneficiaries as local military treatment facilities create strong relationships with private sector health systems to form integrated high performance health systems. These formal relationships would foster innovation in military treatment facilities, enhance operational medical force readiness, improve access to specialized medical care, and strengthen care coordination through integration of all activities of these new health delivery systems. Contracts with private sector entities to provide certain health care services at military treatment facilities. The Tillis provision requires the Secretary of Defense to enter into centrally-managed, performance-based contracts with private sector entities to improve the delivery of health care services at military treatment facilities with limited or restricted ability to provide services such as primary care or expanded-hours urgent care. Contracts would be designed to purchase improvement in health outcomes for covered beneficiaries seeking health care services in military treatment facilities. Memoranda of agreements between the Department of Defense and institution of higher education that offer degrees in allopathic or osteopathic medicine. By sharing training facilities, staffing, and material resources, these new academic affiliations could help improve and sustain operational medical force readiness and possibly serve as a productive recruiting grounds for new military physicians. The provision sets the stage for the Department of Defense and Fort Bragg’s Womack Army Medical Center to form a partnership with the Campbell University School of Osteopathic Medicine. ###
06.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today issued the following statement in response to the shooting in Orlando, Florida: "My heart goes out to all those affected by the horrendous act of terror in Orlando, and Susan and I join all North Carolinians in keeping the victims and their family members in our thoughts and prayers. "In midst of such a horrific tragedy, we are reminded of the true character of our nation and its people, witnessing the courage and bravery of law enforcement officials and first responders, as well as the generosity of everyday Americans who have already formed long lines to donate blood to help save the lives of victims. The exceptional values and resiliency of America demonstrate why we will never be intimidated by the likes of ISIS terrorists and their cowardly acts of evil." ###
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, on the 72nd anniversary of D-Day, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took the Senate floor to commemorate North Carolina’s critical role in the Allied invasion of Normandy and the liberation of Europe during World War II. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FLOOR SPEECH HERE. Tillis noted that it was the paratroopers of Fort Bragg’s 82nd Airborne Division who led the early morning invasion of Normandy. In spite of the bad weather and German antiaircraft fire, the paratroopers of the 82nd succeeded in capturing important crossroads, which prevented German panzer units from reaching the beaches of Normandy. Tillis also gave thanks to the 29th Infantry Division, known as “the Blue and the Gray Division,” a National Guard unit comprised of soldiers from North Carolina, Virginia and Maryland. By the evening of June 6, 1944, more than 1,000 soldiers from the 29th had become casualties on Omaha Beach. “North Carolina was at Normandy that day. At 1:51 am, Fort Bragg’s, 82nd Airborne Division, under the command of Major General Matthew Ridgeway and Brigadier General James Gavin, began the fight,” said Senator Tillis. “The people of North Carolina remember the soldiers of D-Day and their comrades from other battlefields of that war. On the Cape Fear River sits the USS North Carolina, the most decorated battleship of World War II. It is not a museum. It is a reminder, it is our memorial. The names of over 10,000 North Carolinians who paid the ultimate price are set on the walls of that great ship. In President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s words, ‘They fought not for the lust of conquest. They fought to end conquest. They fought to liberate.’” ###
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) recently co-sponsored a bipartisan amendment to the FY2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) with Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ), and Ranking Member Jack Reed (D-RI) to preserve the Afghan Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) program, which allows Afghans who supported the U.S. mission in Afghanistan and face threats as a result to apply for refuge in the United States. The amendment would extend the Afghan SIV program through December 31, 2017 and authorize the Department of State to issue an additional 4,000 visas. The amendment would also require the Department of Defense and the Department of State to prepare and provide to Congress a strategy for responsibly winding down the Afghan SIV program over the next several years. “Many brave Afghans have risked their lives in order to support American troops and their efforts to defeat terrorists,” said Senator Tillis. “In return, America has a moral obligation to provide these Afghans with safety from the Taliban who seek to harm them and their families for assisting America’s mission in Afghanistan. Falling short of this obligation would signal to the world that America is willing to turn its back on friends who stood with our nation, a grave mistake we cannot afford to make.” ###
05.27.2016	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in honor of Memorial Day, May 30th: “Memorial Day is a time to reflect on the many brave men and women in uniform who made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our cherished freedoms and liberties. Although we will never be able to repay the debt of gratitude we owe to our nation’s fallen heroes, we must honor our obligation to care for their loved ones who bear the personal burden of their sacrifice.”
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Gary Peters (D-MI), Steve Daines (R-MT), and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) to introduce an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to help veterans who may have been erroneously given a less than honorable discharge from the military due to negative behavior resulting from mental traumas such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). The bipartisan amendment codifies the Hagel memo, ensuring Discharge Review Boards (DRBs) give liberal consideration to petitions for changes in discharge status to honorable if the servicemember has PTSD, TBI or related conditions in connection with their military service. Additionally, the amendment extends the policy to PTSD or TBI that is related to military sexual trauma. “So many of our servicemembers have developed PTSD and brain injuries while on active duty, many of whom were undiagnosed until long after their service was completed,” said Senator Tillis. “We should provide a fair opportunity for these brave men and women to regain the benefits they lost as a result of conditions we now know were caused by the effects of the trauma they sustained during their service to our nation.” “Our nation’s courageous servicemembers risk their lives in defense of our security and our freedom,” said Senator Peters, a former Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve “We must ensure that the men and women who undergo serious trauma during their time in the military receive the care and benefits they deserve and have earned through their service. I urge my colleagues to pass this amendment and uphold our obligation to support America’s servicemen and women while they are wearing the uniform and as they transition to civilian life.” “By continuing to overlook these cases, the Department of Defense is only amplifying the invisible wounds of war afflicting many veterans,” Senator Daines stated. “I’m proud that this bill allows veterans to have their discharges reviewed, taking their PTSD, Military Sexual Assault or Traumatic Brain Injury into account. We've known there were many of our veterans who had been discharged without proper consideration. It’s a wrong we need to right.” “Our selfless and brave veterans should never lose out on the benefits they earned because of a health condition like PTSD or MST,” said Senator Gillibrand, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “This bipartisan bill would help ensure that the VA is taking care of all of our veterans, no matter what their condition is when they leave the military. I will continue to urge all of my colleagues to support it.” A less than honorable discharge, or bad paper discharge, is often given for minor misconduct such as being late to formation and missing appointments - behavior often seen in those suffering from PTSD, TBI, and other trauma related conditions. A less than honorable discharge means servicemembers are ineligible for certain benefits, including G.I. benefits and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) home loans. This amendment would codify and build upon the policy guidance issued by former Defense Secretary Hagel in 2014 and apply it to the Discharge Review Boards (DRBs). The “Hagel memo” instructed liberal consideration to be given when reviewing cases at the Military Department Boards for Correction of Military/Naval Records (BCM/NR) where there is any evidence to indicate that PTSD might have contributed to misconduct that led to a less than honorable discharge. According to an investigation by the National Journal, 13% of Post-9/11 veterans – roughly 318,000 – have left the service with a less than honorable discharge. This status denies most of them of VA educational, economic and other benefits. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, between 11-20% who served in Operations Iraqi Freedom (OIF) and Enduring Freedom (OEF) have PTSD in a given year. The legislation has broad support from major veteran groups, including the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, the Military Officers Association of America, the American Legion, Paralyzed Veterans of America, United Soldiers and Sailors of America, Vietnam Veterans of America, and Swords to Plowshares. “Too often, we see our men and women in uniform erroneously receiving administrative discharges as a result of mental health concerns that need treatment, not punishment. And while there have been efforts to correct these wrongful discharges, the Fairness for Veterans Act is needed to continue addressing this issue,” said Tom Porter, Legislative Director of the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. “IAVA believes that all veterans deserve the timely and efficient access to benefits and services and therefore, we are proud to offer our support for this meaningful legislation.” "DAV is pleased to offer our support for the intent of this legislation that would provide wounded, ill and injured former service members with less than honorable discharges a more humane process toward discharge reviews,” said Disabled American Veterans (DAV) National Commander, Ron Hope. “This legislation would afford them a better opportunity to correct any administrative determinations in instances when PTSD and TBI may have contributed to a less than honorable discharge from active military service.” “We believe this legislation will provide former servicemembers the best chance at obtaining fair and equitable results when applying for discharge upgrades. Too many of our former members are struggling to receive benefits and care for in-service injuries, yet face barriers due to receiving less than honorable discharges following incidents related to manifestations of TBI and PTSD,” said Lieutenant General Dana Atkins – U.S. Air Force, Ret., President of the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA). “Adoption of this modified language will help bring these former members one step closer to obtaining the care and benefits they require.” “Since 2009 approximately 22,000 veterans suffering from mental health conditions were discharged from military service for misconduct,” said American Legion National Commander, Dale Barnett. “Veterans who receive less than honorable discharges are often disqualified from receiving health care services from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). This bill would ensure combat veterans, whose condition should have been considered prior to their discharge, receive due consideration in their discharge appeals process.” “The Fairness for Veterans Act is a vitally important piece of legislation, which the United Soldiers and Sailors of America strongly supports,” said John P. Yori, President of United Soldiers and Sailors of America. “We thank Senators Peters, Daines, Gillibrand, and Tillis for their hard work to ensure that this bill is passed to assist our brave servicemembers once they return home.” “Veterans with less than honorable discharges are more likely to be homeless, suffer from drug or alcohol dependency, to become incarcerated, to suffer from untreated physical and mental wounds of war, and ultimately, die by suicide,” said John Rowan, President and CEO of Vietnam Veterans of America. “VVA commends Senators Peters, Daines, Gillibrand, and Tillis for their leadership on this legislation and for their dedication to ensuring that veterans impacted by PTSD, TBI and MST are afforded an opportunity to experience a more fair and just discharge review process.” “Swords to Plowshares strongly supports the proposed amendment incorporating of the ‘liberal consideration’ standard for discharge upgrades into law,” said Michael Blecker, Executive Director of Swords to Plowshares. “The policy changes enacted under Secretary Hagel have provided invaluable relief to veterans who deserve fair treatment from the Department of Defense and better access to services from the VA. The military branches have been discharging service members for misconduct at a higher rate than at any point in our nation’s history. Misconduct discharges are 11 times more likely after a PTSD diagnosis, and 35% more likely after reporting military sexual trauma. This demonstrates a shameful failure of the military administrative discharge process that must be remedied. Until that happens, and for veterans who are already discharged, the Department of Defense must fix these injustices through its records corrections boards. Congress should take this opportunity to adopt the ‘liberal consideration’ standard as law, ensuring that veterans receive the fair treatment that they are owed for their service.” ###
05.25.2016	U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK), senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) today introduced amendment #4204 to the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would prevent the Department of Defense (DOD) from privatizing commissaries at five major installations until a study, requested in last year’s NDAA, to assess the costs and benefits of privatization is completed and properly taken into consideration by Congress.The following members are original cosponsors of the amendment: Sens. Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Boozman (R-AR), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Richard Burr (R-NC), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Ben Cardin (D-MD), Bob Casey (D-PA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Dean Heller (R-NV), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), James Lankford (R-OK), Edward Markey (D-MA), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Patty Murray (D-WA), Bill Nelson (D-FL), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Jon Tester (D-MT), Tom Udall (D-NM), David Vitter (R-LA), Mark Warner (D-VA) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI). “Our service members have repeatedly told me and Congress the importance of their commissary benefit, asking us to protect access to and savings at their commissaries,” Senator Inhofe said. “Last year, my Senate colleagues and I fought to block language to privatize military commissaries until a study can take place to assess the impacts, costs and benefits of such drastic action. That study is currently underway, and once it is completed, Congress needs time to thoroughly review and consider the recommendations. This is why our bipartisan amendment to strike Senate language that, once again, prematurely sets into motion privatization is critical and should be given a vote during the Senate NDAA debate. I applaud the 30 Senate colleagues and 41 outside organizations already standing in support of our commissaries, and I urge veterans and military members to speak out and let us in Congress know how this benefit impacts your families’ household budgets and well-being.” “I’m fighting to protect our commissaries because service members and their families deserve the benefits they’ve earned and a government on their side,” Senator Mikulski said. “Commissaries feed our troops. They help military families stretch their budgets, and they provide jobs to military spouses, teens old enough to work, and military retirees. And commissaries are the military’s most popular earned benefit. With this bipartisan amendment, we will keep commissary doors open to provide low-cost, healthy food to our service members and their families until we’re certain there’s a better alternative.” “Military families across the country rely on commissaries to make ends meet,” Senator Tillis said. “We must ensure that any changes to these vital resources do not harm the very people who are already making tremendous sacrifices for our nation.” “Commissaries are an essential resource for military personnel and their families worldwide. Experimenting with the privatization of such a valuable benefit is the wrong thing to do and places an unfair burden on families who are already sacrificing a great deal,” Senator Boozman said. “Servicemembers and their spouses rely on military commissaries to buy food and household goods at a fair price,” Senator Brown said. “That’s why it’s so important that the Department of Defense be allowed to finish its assessment on the costs and benefits of privatizing the program. The full impact of privatizing our military commissaries is still unknown, and Congress can’t afford to make changes without first learning how they could strain military families’ household budgets.”“The commissary is an important benefit for military families that must be maintained,” Senator Burr said. “Previous studies have already found that privatization of the commissary system is not a viable option. The commissary system is just too important for experimentation.”“Our military members and their families sacrifice so much for our nation. The least the Senate can do on their behalf is to exhibit patience while we wait for results of a study regarding the possible privatization of the commissaries at military installations,” Senator Cardin said. “It is bewildering why some senators would rush to privatize a service so essential to our military families, who often struggle to make ends meet. My preference is that we focus our attention on how to reward their service to our country with better compensation, more support at home and overseas, and that we do all we can to keep their daily expenses to a minimum.”“Commissaries are an important benefit for members of our military, saving the typical family thousands of dollars per year in groceries,” Senator Collins said. “We owe it to our service members, veterans, and their families to prevent further closures or privatization of these vital facilities until the issue can be fully studied.” “Our service members, military retirees, and their families primarily live on fixed incomes and heavily rely on savings achieved by shopping at commissary stores, especially in high cost of living areas like Hawaii,” Senator Hirono said. “Before we make any major changes to the system, Congress should fully understand how military families would be impacted. I thank Senators Inhofe and Mikulski for leading on this important amendment, and look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure that military families in Hawaii and across the globe get the services they deserve.”“Commissaries are an important benefit for both military families and veterans. Before we make sweeping changes to the national commissaries, we need to assess the effect of any changes,” Senator Lankford said. “Last year, I supported the NDAA language that required a fact-based assessment, but it has not been completed yet. This amendment will prohibit any changes to our commissaries until the assessment is complete.” “Commissaries are one of the ways our nation expresses its appreciation to military families and retirees for their service. Like any other government organization we need to encourage efficiencies in the operation of our commissaries, but that does not mean closing stores, cutting hours, or hiking prices,” Senator Murkowski said. “If there is one thing our military families can count on, it is reasonable grocery prices at the commissary wherever they serve. Privatizing our commissaries places the food security of our military families and retirees at risk. It is the wrong way to go.” “To a military family who already sacrifices so much to protect our country’s freedom, access to affordable groceries and provisions makes a big difference. This is just one simple way we can take care of those who volunteered their lives to protect us,” Senator Murray said. “Commissaries are a crucial part of military life, and when so many of our junior troops rely on food assistance, now is not the time to increase the burden on families just trying to get by.” “Military families stationed at Ellsworth and at bases throughout the world depend on these commissaries as much as civilian families depend on their local grocery chains and drug stores,” said Senator Rounds. “Congress should not initiate major changes to the commissary system without fully understanding the impact the changes will have on service members and their families. The DOD report Congress required last year and which is past due would help achieve that understanding. Our service members and their families make incredible sacrifices so that we can be safe. We owe it to them to make informed decisions about an issue that will impact their daily lives.” “Military commissaries provide our nation’s heroes and their families with an indispensable benefit and more than $4,000 per year in savings on household goods,” Seantor Udall said. “This benefit is all the more important because thousands of service members and millions of veterans rely on food stamps. Any decision as drastic as privatization of commissaries must be properly studied, weighing the cost and benefits of such a decision.” “Privatization could place an undue burden on many of our military men and women and their families, as well as retired service members who enjoy the benefits of military commissaries,” Senator Warner said. “Launching a privatization pilot before careful study on its potential impacts is completed would be wildly premature. This amendment will sensibly prevent such a pilot from being launched until the report that Congress requested is completed.” BackgroundThe Senate’s NDAA for Fiscal Year 2016, as passed out of committee on May 14, 2015, included language that sought to launch a pilot program to begin the privatization of military commissaries at five locations. Inhofe and Mikulski authored an amendment that garnered the bipartisan support of 23 Senators and over 40 organizations that sought to protect commissaries from being privatized until an assessment on such action could be conducted. Specifically, the amendment: Required a study on the impact of privatization of commissaries on military families before a pilot program on privatizing could be implemented and was to look at modifications to the commissary system, common business processes, privatization in whole or in part, analysis of different pricing constructs, and impacts on MWR programs. Required a Comptroller General assessment of the plan no later than 120 days after the submittal of the report. The amendment was adopted on the Senate floor and included in the final NDAA signed into law by the president.The requested study is currently underway but has not been completed at the time of this press release. This year’s Inhofe-Mikulski amendment would block language in the Senate bill that, once again, seeks to begin the process of privatization, and would restrict any such action until completion of the study and thorough review by Congress.The following 41 organizations are opposed to the privatization language currently in the bill: Air Force Sergeants Association American Federation of Government Employees American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations Teamsters American Logistics Association American Military Retirees Association American Military Society American Retirees Association American Veterans Armed Forces Marketing Council Army and Navy Union Association of the United States Army Association of the United States Navy Fleet Reserve Association Gold Star Wives of America International Brotherhood of Teamsters Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America Jewish War Veterans of the United States of America Military Order of Foreign Wars Military Order of the Purple Heart National Defense Committee National Guard Association of the United States National Military Family Association National Military and Veterans Alliance Military Partners and Families Coalition Military Officers Association of America National Association for Uniformed Services Society of Military Widows The American Military Partner Association The Coalition to Save Our Military Shopping Benefits The Flag and General Officers Network Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors The Retired Enlisted Association Uniformed Services Disabled Retirees United States Army Warrant Officers Association Veterans of Foreign Wars Vietnam Veterans of America Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America National Industries for the Blind Naval Enlisted Reserve Association Reserve Officer Association Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States The American Legion
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs held a hearing on pending legislation to improve veterans’ health care and benefits, five of which were bills co-introduced by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC). “Today’s hearing demonstrates how members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee constantly check their partisan labels and ideologies at the door in order to improve the quality of life for the brave men and women who have served our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “It’s been an honor to work across party lines to advance commonsense legislation aimed at reducing wait times at the VA and ensuring that all veterans have access to the health care and support they need and deserve.” Watch Senator Tillis’ remarks here. The pending Tillis-sponsored legislation discussed at today’s hearing included: The Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act, which was introduced by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Thom Tillis (R-NC). The legislation directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a center of excellence within the VA to address the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to toxic burn pits. Senators Klobuchar and Tillis recently penned a Fox News op-ed in support of their legislation. The Newborn Care Improvement Act, which was introduced by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Thom Tillis (R-NC). The legislation doubles the length of care the VA provides to newborn children. Currently, when women veterans give birth, their newborns are covered for care by the VA for only 7 days or less. If the female veteran does not get private care for the newborn, they will not have health coverage after 7 days. The Klobuchar-Tillis legislation would double the period of coverage from 7 days to 14. The Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act, which was introduced by Senators Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), and Jon Tester (D-MT). The legislation directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to identify mental health care and suicide prevention programs and metrics that are effective in treating women veterans as part of the evaluation of such programs by the Secretary. The Janey Ensminger Act of 2016, which was introduced by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC), and Bill Nelson (D-FL). The legislation amends the Public Health Service Act with respect to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry’s review and publication of illness and conditions relating to veterans stationed at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, and their family members. The bill is named in honor of Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger’s daughter Janey, who was only nine-years-old when she died from a rare form of leukemia after being exposed to toxic water at Camp Lejeune. The Care Veterans Deserve Act of 2016, which introduced by Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC). The legislation aims to improve access to timely care for veterans by expanding access to care at the VA while enhancing choice and flexibility for veterans’ health care options. The legislation supplements and expands on the major reforms enacted by the Veterans’ Access to Care through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014, which was signed into law in the wake of the scandal of denied and delayed care at VA hospitals around the country. ###
05.24.2016	U.S. Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Mark Warner (D-VA) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) today welcomed the news that the Veterans Health Administration (VA) is moving to voluntarily implement one of the key proposals from their bipartisan Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act, helping to ensure that veterans can get the care they need in a timely fashion at VA facilities. Specifically, the new VA proposal would allow Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) to provide health care services to the full extent of their practice authority. This will make it easier for the VA to find enough medical professionals to fill the need for health care services for veterans, particularly for primary care services and in rural areas. “Our veterans have stood up for us, and we must stand up for them,” said Senator Merkley. “Long wait times for health care at the VA put veterans’ health in jeopardy and are unacceptable. I’m pleased that the VA has taken this first step forward. I look forward to working with Senators on both sides of the aisle to move forward on our other common-sense ideas to improve VA health care staffing and cut down on wait times for our veterans.” “Veterans across the nation continue to face unacceptable wait times to receive even the most basic health care services,” said Senator Tillis. “I am pleased to see that the VA has taken a proactive step to address wait times and staffing issues by implementing our bipartisan proposal to allow highly-qualified Registered Nurses to play an expanded role in caring for our veterans.” “I’m pleased the VA recognizes the need to cut down on unnecessary red tape that is preventing our veterans from receiving adequate and timely care,” said Senator Rounds. “By easing unnecessary restrictions placed on APRNs within the VA system, veterans in South Dakota and across the country will have increased access to health care and have the ability to receive that care closer to home. I thank my colleagues in the Senate who worked with me to fix this misguided policy and look forward to working with the VA to see it implemented.” “Not long ago, the VA medical center in Hampton, Va., had one of the longest wait times in the nation for veterans attempting to access the care they have earned,” said Senator Warner. “In my repeated visits to that hospital and other VA facilities in my state, I’ve heard from local VA leadership again and again about their staffing challenges. Allowing qualified APRNs to practice to the full extent of their medical authority is an important, commonsense step that will assist the Department of Veterans Affairs in meeting patient needs, especially in rural areas. In Congress, we must continue looking for bipartisan, cost-effective solutions to help ease hiring of qualified medical personnel at the VA so we can do better by all of our men and women who have worn the uniform.” The VA published the policy change today as a proposed rule. There will be a 60-day comment period on the rulemaking, after which the rule can go into effect.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina resident Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger testified before the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee in support of S.2888, The Janey Ensminger Act of 2016, bipartisan legislation that was introduced earlier this year by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Bill Nelson (D-FL). The legislation is named in honor Master Sergeant Ensminger’s daughter Janey, who was only nine-years-old when she died in 1985 from a rare form of leukemia after being exposed to toxic water at Camp Lejeune her entire life. Master Sergeant Ensminger has been a tireless advocate for the members of the military and families that were harmed by toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune. “I would like to commend both Senators Burr and Tillis for writing and introducing this bill,” said Jerry Ensminger at today’s hearing. “This bill confirms to the hundreds of thousands of marines, sailors, their families, and the thousands of civilian employees who were negligently exposed to the highest levels of harmful contaminants ever recorded in a major drinking water system, that the United States Senate delegation of North Carolina has our backs.” Watch the video of Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger’s full testimony here. “Mr. Ensminger, I know this is deeply personal to you,” said Senator Tillis at today’s hearing. “This is something Senator Burr has been working on for quite some time, as well as my predecessor. This is an instance where the Veterans’ Affairs Committee should go along with the recommendations of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to determine which diseases will be treated, but I think the benefit of the doubt always has to go to the veterans, particularly with what happened at Camp Lejeune.” Watch the video of Senator Tillis’ full remarks here. “Today, the Senate heard critical testimony from Jerry Ensminger, who is a reluctant authority on Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water because his daughter tragically died as a result of our government’s failures,” said Senator Burr. “I will not stop fighting for justice for the victims of Camp Lejeune. There remain many obstacles for us to overcome. I thank Jerry for his tireless efforts at holding the VA accountable and improving the lives of all who suffer from illnesses incurred at Camp Lejeune. No one has been a better advocate for these individuals and I cannot commend him highly enough for his steadfast determination.” The Janey Ensminger Act of 2016 requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide medical care for all diseases that can be scientifically linked to exposure to toxic chemicals at Camp Lejeune. The legislation also requires that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal agency within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, review all relevant scientific literature every three years to determine if sufficient or modest causal links have been found between toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune and additional diseases and conditions. This will ensure that veterans and their families will not have to wait to get medical care as researchers learn more about the long-term health consequences of the toxins found in the water at Camp Lejeune. ###
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in favor of the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act, which passed the Senate today. The bipartisan measure would reauthorize and amend the 2006 Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act, establishing a national registry for sex offenders and child predators. “I am happy the Senate was able to come together to pass the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act, and I want to thank Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley for his tireless work to protect our children and our communities,” said Senator Tillis. “By increasing the amount of information shared between law enforcement agencies, we can prevent future crimes and help victims receive the justice they long deserve.” The Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 established nationwide notification and registration standards for convicted sex offenders to bolster information sharing between law enforcement agencies and increase public safety through greater awareness. The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2016 reauthorizes key programs in the 2006 act to help states meet the national standards and locate offenders who fail to properly register or re-register. ###
05.20.2016	Bipartisan amendment authored by U.S. Senators Thom Tillis, Tammy Baldwin, and Jerry Moran closes loophole WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate recently passed a bipartisan amendment introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Jerry Moran (R-KS) to protect veterans seeking care though VA community care programs, like the Choice Program, from being treated by doctors who have been fired or who are suspended from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The amendment, based on the Veterans Acquiring Community Care Expect Safe Services (ACCESS) Act, was included in a larger VA funding bill passed yesterday by a vote of 89-8. “Health care providers who are unfit to treat veterans at VA facilities should not be allowed to continue their practice in VA community care programs,” said Senator Tillis. “This commonsense, bipartisan amendment will close that loophole and help ensure that veterans using the Choice Program are receiving care from trusted providers.” “No matter where our veterans are receiving their care, we should do our best to ensure that they are receiving the best care possible,” said Senator Baldwin. “It’s commonsense that if a doctor is suspended or has been fired from the VA, they shouldn’t be able to serve veterans seeking care within their own communities, and certainly shouldn’t be doing so with taxpayer dollars. I’m proud to work across the aisle on this bipartisan reform to help ensure our veterans receive the quality health care they need, deserve and have earned.”‎ “This is a common-sense principle – VA healthcare providers who have failed to provide quality care for our veterans should not be given another opportunity to participate in a community healthcare program that would still give them access to veterans,” said Senator Moran. “Those who put veterans’ health at risk and were fired from the VA, violated state license requirements or broke the law are clearly unable to provide the very best care our nation has to offer veterans, which is what they deserve.” Currently, there is nothing explicitly in law or VA regulation that stops fired or suspended VA providers from participating in VA-administered community care programs. To close this dangerous loophole, the amendment requires the VA Secretary to deny or revoke the eligibility of a healthcare provider to participate in community programs if that provider was removed from employment with VA, violated his or her medical license, had a Department certification revoked, or broke the law. In addition, the bipartisan reforms would ensure that when a provider is suspended from VA care, the provider is also suspended from non-VA care. The amendment would also give VA the ability under certain circumstances to deny, revoke, or suspend a provider’s eligibility if that action is necessary to immediately protect the health, safety, or welfare of veterans. ###
05.19.2016	Today, the Senate approved the military construction package, Fiscal Year 2017 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, by a vote of 89 to 8. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted for the legislation, which funds projects in North Carolina at their Senate requested levels. North Carolina bases, including Camp Lejeune, Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station, and Fort Bragg, have the funding for projects totaling $297.140 million. “Maintaining and enhancing our military bases across the state is paramount for military readiness in North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “I’m proud of North Carolina’s commitment to keeping America safe and I will ensure that our troops have top notch facilities for training. Keeping our country safe is my top priority and improving military facilities keeps America at the forefront of national security.” “North Carolina is blessed to be home to the largest military installation and the largest Marine Corps base in the nation,” said Senator Tillis. “The bipartisan legislation passed today will advance many key priorities and projects for North Carolina’s military installations, which in turn will help ensure that our brave men and women in uniform have the training and infrastructure they need to defend America at a moment’s notice.” FY17 MILCON projects proposed in the bill package from today’s vote for North Carolina: Camp Lejeune - $18.482 Million for Range Facilities Safety Improvements Camp Lejeune - $31 Million for Dental Clinic Replacement Cherry Point MCAS - $12.515 Million for Central Heating Plant Conversion Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $29.6 Million for C-17 Corrosion Control/Fuel Cell Hangar Air National Guard Charlotte IAP - $21 Million for C-17 Type III Hydrant Refueling System Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $5.7 Million for KC-46A ADAL Building for AGE/Fuselage Training Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $2.25 Million KC-46A ADAL Squadron Operations Facilities Air Force Reserve Seymour Johnson AFB - $90 Million for KC-46A Two Bay Corrosion/Fuel Cell Hangar Fort Bragg - $10.905 Million for SOF Combat Medical Training Facility Fort Bragg - $21.420 Million for SOF Parachute Rigging Facility Fort Bragg - $30.670 Million for SOF Special Tactics Facility (Phase 3) Fort Bragg - $23.598 Million for SOF Tactical Equipment Maintenance Facility Total for North Carolina - $297.140 Million
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) recently joined 55 senators to co-sponsor a bipartisan resolution designating May 15 to May 21, 2016 “National Police Week.” The resolution, which passed the Senate unanimously last night, honors 123 law enforcement officers across the nation killed in the line of duty in 2015, including Inspector Robert James Bowling of the North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles. “Americans across the country are blessed to be protected by dedicated law enforcement officers who risk their lives to protect our lives every single day,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to support National Police Week to honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty, and I will continue to do everything I can to ensure that our brave law enforcement officers have the encouragement and resources they need to stay safe while serving our communities.” In 2015, North Carolina lost one law enforcement officer, Inspector Robert James Bowling, who served with the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles License and Theft Bureau for 24 years and was assigned to District 4. Background Senator Tillis recently co-sponsored The POLICE Act, which makes federal grants available for law enforcement officers and medical personnel to help them better prepare for active shooter situations, including training civilians on how to respond if confronted by an active shooter. Senator Tillis also supports The Thin Blue Line Act, which amends the federal criminal code to make the killing or attempted killing of a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or other first responder an aggravating factor in death penalty determinations. One of the first bills Senator Tillis co-sponsored was The Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, which establishes a national Blue Alert communications network within the Department of Justice to issue alerts when a law enforcement officer is killed, injured, goes missing in the line of duty, or when there is an imminent and credible threat to an officer. The legislation passed Congress and was signed into law by the President last May. ###
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The National Defense Authorization Act for 2017 (NDAA) includes a plan to overhaul and improve TRICARE for active duty servicemembers, reservists, and their family members, which incorporates several major provisions proposed by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC). Senator Tillis originally offered the proposals to Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain (R-AZ) and Ranking Member Jack Reed (D-RI) in a February 2016 letter. “Our servicemembers make enormous sacrifices in defense of our freedoms, and they deserve access to the timely and quality health care choices that work best for them and their families,” said Senator Tillis. “It was an honor to work with my colleagues on a plan to reform and modernize the TRICARE system, which will increase collaboration between the military and private sector, ultimately improving health outcomes for TRICARE beneficiaries.” The Tillis proposals secured in the NDAA include: The establishment of high performance military-civilian integrated health delivery systems. The Tillis provision would improve health outcomes and enhance the experience of care for beneficiaries as local military treatment facilities create strong relationships with private sector health systems to form integrated high performance health systems. These formal relationships would foster innovation in military treatment facilities, enhance operational medical force readiness, improve access to specialized medical care, and strengthen care coordination through integration of all activities of these new health delivery systems. Contracts with private sector entities to provide certain health care services at military treatment facilities. The Tillis provision requires the Secretary of Defense to enter into centrally-managed, performance-based contracts with private sector entities to improve the delivery of health care services at military treatment facilities with limited or restricted ability to provide services such as primary care or expanded-hours urgent care. Contracts would be designed to purchase improvement in health outcomes for covered beneficiaries seeking health care services in military treatment facilities. Memoranda of agreements between the Department of Defense and institution of higher education that offer degrees in allopathic or osteopathic medicine. By sharing training facilities, staffing, and material resources, these new academic affiliations could help improve and sustain operational medical force readiness and possibly serve as a productive recruiting grounds for new military physicians. ###
05.16.2016	TILLIS: “North Carolina is uniquely situated to serve as a role model for partnerships between the military and academic medical institutions. My amendment could create such a partnership between Fort Bragg and Campbell University, whose combined resources and expertise would provide a holistic care system for our active duty soldiers, reservists and their dependents.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that he secured an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Department of Defense to enter memoranda of agreements with local or regional higher education institutions that offer degrees in allopathic or osteopathic medicine to establish military treatment facilities as affiliate teaching hospitals. The Tillis amendment sets the stage for the Department of Defense and Fort Bragg’s Womack Army Medical Center to form a partnership with the Campbell University School of Osteopathic Medicine. By sharing training facilities, staffing, and material resources, the new academic affiliations could help improve and sustain operational medical force readiness and serve as productive recruiting grounds for new military physicians. “North Carolina is uniquely situated to serve as a role model for partnerships between the military and academic medical institutions,” said Senator Tillis. “My amendment could create such a partnership between Fort Bragg and Campbell University, whose combined resources and expertise would provide a holistic care system for our active duty soldiers, reservists and their dependents.” ###
05.13.2016	Tillis amendment requires Army leadership to report to the Senate with an outline to extend the runway at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield and to indicate whether such a project is a priority WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that he has secured his amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, to submit a report to the Senate outlining plans to extend the runway at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield and to indicate whether such project is a priority for the Army. Tillis originally introduced the Pope Airfield runway language as standalone legislation last month. Currently, C-17 and C-5 airlifts cannot depart from Pope Airfield fully fueled with a full load of paratroopers due to the current 8,500 foot takeoff length of the runway. Fully loaded C-17s and C-5s require a takeoff length of 10,500 feet, and 11,500 feet, respectively. To make up for the difference and complete their mission, C-17 and C-5 airlifts must refuel at Charleston, S.C. or Gander, Newfoundland, at a taxpayer cost of $17,000 per hour. Fort Bragg leaders have previously requested that the runway at Pope Airfield be extended to accommodate the airlift requirements of America’s Global Response Force, whose mission is to have the units of the XVIII Airborne Corps anywhere in the world within 48 hours notice. Prior to the latest round of Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC), extending the Pope Runway was the Air Mobility Command’s number one airfield project and the United States Air Force’s number two project for funding. “Pope Airfield’s runway must be extended in order to fully support the rapid deployment capabilities of America’s Global Response Force,” said Senator Tillis. “Our paratroopers and our taxpayers deserve to know whether or not the runway extension is a priority for the Army, and my amendment will ensure they receive an answer.” ###
05.13.2016	U.S. Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-OK), senior member of the Senate Armed Services Committee; and Sen. Lamar Alexandar (R-TN), chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions; and Sens. David Vitter (R-LA), Thom Tills (R-NC), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Mike Enzi (R-WY) today praised the inclusion of a provision in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2017 (FY17) that severely limits the impact of Executive Order 13673’s blacklisting components against defense contractors. This provision was included at the request of the members. “The Obama Administration is constantly working to make the acquisition process more difficult, onerous, and costly, and I applaud the Armed Services Committee for including this provision at our request,” said Inhofe. “EO 13673 effectively blacklists any contractor from participating in defense contracts if they have had unproven allegations of labor law violations. The inclusion of this language will prevent blacklisting to any company unless they have had specific violations proven that have led to its suspension or debarment by the Department. I will be working with my colleagues to ensure this language makes it across the finish line.” "This provision will prevent the administration from enacting a rule that will bury contractors and subcontractors under mountains of paperwork and then prevent some from getting work for a labor violation they didn’t commit. Current law is already clear that when federal contractors violate labor laws, they will be punished," said Alexander. “The Obama Administration’s obsession with regulating for the sake of regulating has shown itself in the ‘Fair Pay’ Executive Order, which has the ability to turn the federal contracting system on its head. Requiring a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis on the ‘Fair Pay’ E.O. is a huge win for federal contractors and agencies alike before they waste far too much time and money complying with an unnecessary rule,” said Vitter. “The Labor Department already has the ability to hold contractors accountable for violating labor laws, and the ‘Fair Pay’ E.O. would fail to combat violators, instead only hurting federal contractors and putting many out of business.” “I applaud the Armed Services Committee for taking this commonsense step to streamline the defense acquisition process,” said Tillis. “This is a critical move towards repealing another overly burdensome policy of the Obama administration’s ‘unions first, troops second’ acquisition mentality.” “The President’s executive overreach could have enormous implications for defense procurement and manufacturing,” said Wicker. “It would be wrong to blacklist potential contractors from engaging with DOD without full due process. I am pleased that the committee has seen fit to include Sen. Inhofe’s provision to block the Administration’s efforts.” Background The Obama administration has implemented Executive Order 13673 (EO 13673), which effectively blacklists companies from participating in government contracts if they have had allegations of labor law violations, even if they have not been substantiated or proven. If allowed to move forward, EO 13673 would slow down and increase the cost of the acquisition process, hurting defense contractors. In 2015, Inhofe offered amendment #2015 to the FY16 NDAA, which would have blocked EO 13673 from applying to a defense contractor unless it has been debarred or otherwise suspended. This amendment was not adopted then; however, at the request of the members, a provision addressing this issue was included in the base text of FY17 NDAA.
05.13.2016	Tillis’ NDAA amendment would eliminate the two-year time limit for military spouses who move from base to base to seek federal employment on that base WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which was passed by the Senate Armed Services Committee last night, includes his amendment to close the two-year time limit loophole for military spouses who move from base to base and seek federal employment on that base. Currently, a military spouse only has two years to invoke the military spouse preference from the date of the service member’s permanent change of station orders, which are issued well in advance of a military family arriving at a new duty station. Combined with the demands of raising children, adjusting to new surroundings, and the actual availability of federal jobs, many military spouses have missed consideration for employment or have had job offers withdrawn because they lost eligibility. The Tillis amendment would have an immediate impact on the quality of life for military spouses and their families. The amendment would also further strengthen the partnership between the Department of Defense and the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) by providing consistent language to address the countless e-mails, phone calls and inquiries on the two-year time limit from military spouses seeking employment. “Military spouses already make vast personal and professional sacrifices in support of their families and our nation, and they should not be burdened with arbitrary limitations that make their lives more challenging,” said Senator Tillis. “My amendment will provide more freedom and flexibility to military spouses by letting them pursue federal employment at a time that is most convenient for them and their families.” ###
05.12.2016	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) welcomed Pastor Chris Justice of Lee Park Church in Monroe, North Carolina to the Senate. Senators Tillis and Burr invited Pastor Justice to deliver the U.S Senate Opening Prayer. “I want to welcome Pastor Chris Justice and his lovely wife who came here to this great Capitol this morning,” said Senator Tillis. “I have been out to Lee Park Church, and what struck me most is how much the congregation loves Pastor Chris and the Justice family. You have done a great job out in Monroe, we thank you for your service to the great citizens of the state, and we thank you for your service to this great body today.” “It was a privilege to welcome Pastor Chris Justice from Lee Park Church in Monroe, North Carolina to Washington today and to attend his opening prayer before the Senate this morning,” said Senator Burr. “Pastor Chris has touched the lives of many in North Carolina first as a news anchor in Charlotte and now and a pastor in Monroe. I’m pleased to have been present for his blessing today and I thank him for reminding my colleagues and me to appeal to God to make our paths straight.” Watch video of the opening prayer here. Watch video of Senator Tillis’ speech here. Watch video of Senator Burr’s speech here.
05.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) were among a bipartisan group of 28 senators to commemorate the 17th annual National Charter Schools Week, which lasts May 1 through May 7. The resolution congratulates the students, parents, teachers, and leaders of our nation’s 6,800 charter schools. “Children in North Carolina and across the United States deserve access to high quality education so they can realize their full potential and achieve their American Dream,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to be a part of this bipartisan effort to improve educational opportunities for children and support North Carolina’s 158 Charter Schools.” “Charter Schools are a tremendous opportunity to improve education,” said Senator Burr. “As many parents know, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to education that will work for all students. Charters provide another option for parents seeking the best education for their child.” The resolution, which unanimously passed last week, was cosponsored by Sens. Pat Toomey (R-PA), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), David Vitter (R-LA), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Michael Bennet (R-CO), John Boozman (R-AR), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Cory Gardner (R-CO), John Cornyn (R-TX), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), John McCain (R-AZ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Tim Scott (R-SC), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Tom Carper (D-DE), Chris Coons (D-DE), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), David Perdue (R-GA) and Roger Wicker (R-MS). ###
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Bill Nelson (D-FL) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced S. 2888, The Janey Ensminger Act of 2016, which requires the VA to provide medical care for all diseases that can be scientifically linked to exposure to toxic chemicals at Camp Lejeune. The legislation also requires that the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), a federal agency within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, review all relevant scientific literature every three years to determine if sufficient or modest causal links have been found between toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune and additional diseases and conditions. This will ensure that veterans and their families will not have to wait to get medical care as researchers learn more about the long-term health consequences of the toxins found in the water at Camp Lejeune. The legislation is named for Janey Ensminger, the daughter of Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger, who was born on base at Camp Lejeune and died as a result of exposure to toxic chemicals. “The military negligently poisoned these service members and their families,” said Sen. Burr. “The VA has consistently denied the clear scientific links between exposure to toxins at Camp Lejeune and diseases like Parkinson’s, cardiac malformations and rectal cancer. The Janey Ensminger Act puts a stop to VA denials and will ensure that these men and women who served our nation get the care they need. These veterans should not have to fight the VA every time that government researchers find a link between a disease and the toxins that were in their drinking water.” “As I’ve said before, I believe the VA should be giving our veterans who were stationed at Camp Lejeune the benefit of the doubt – especially if ATSDR finds a link between their illness and the toxins they were exposed to while stationed there,” said Sen. Nelson. “The Janey Ensminger Act ensures that veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune won’t have to wait to receive care merely because the VA isn’t using the most up to date scientific data and research available,” said Sen. Tillis. “This legislation prioritizes science over politics and trusts the federal government’s scientific experts outside of the VA with decisions about medical coverage, rather than VA and OMB bureaucrats. I am grateful for the leadership and tireless dedication of Jerry Ensminger and Senator Burr on behalf of Camp Lejeune veterans and their loved ones.” "This bill, when passed, will finally place the responsibility of determining what if any adverse health effects would be expected from the exposure to a whole host of chemicals that were present in Camp Lejeune's tap water in the hands of the scientific experts of ATSDR who were created and mandated by Congress to do so,” said Master Sergeant Ensminger. “It will no longer be left to the personal preferences or the untrained staff of the VA to make these determinations on their own. I want to thank both North Carolina Senators Burr and Tillis for their steadfast commitment to our plight and seeking justice for the nearly one million Camp Lejeune veterans, their families, and the thousands of loyal civilian employees who were unwittingly exposed to this negligence by their own leaders." Master Sergeant Ensminger has been a tireless advocate for members of the military and their families that were harmed by toxic exposure at Camp Lejeune. In September 2015, Ensminger testified before the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. WATCH: Ensminger: Janey is but one example of the multitude of tragedies suffered by former Camp Lejeune families who were exposed by this negligence. In August of 2012, President Obama signed the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 bill into law. This law, authored by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. However, the VA has resisted providing health care benefits to many of these veterans and their family members because it has not recognized the scientific links between the exposure to toxins and certain diseases that have been found by government researchers at the ATSDR. Text of the Janey Ensminger Act of 2016 is available here. A one pager on the legislation is available here.
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined a bipartisan group of his colleagues on the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee yesterday to announce the introduction of the Veterans First Act. The Veterans First Act will give the VA the tools to fire bad actors, prohibit bonuses for employees accused of wrongdoing, and will institute protections for whistleblowers. It also includes numerous provisions to improve services for our nation's veterans, including expanding a VA program that allows seriously-injured veterans to receive care in their own homes, enhancing programs for veterans' mental health care, and beginning to address the VA's massive backlog of veteran disability claims appeals. VIDEO: Senator Tillis speaks at a press conference in support of the Veterans First Act. The comprehensive legislation also includes three provisions Senator Tillis previously introduced as stand-alone bipartisan bills that would expand educational opportunities for veterans and their family members: The Career-Ready Student Veterans Act, introduced by Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Tillis, will provide stronger consumer protection measures for veterans by prohibiting schools lacking appropriate programmatic accreditation from receiving GI Bill benefits. Veterans will be protected from wasting education benefits on educational programs that do not equip them for employment. The Fry Scholarship Enhancement Act, introduced by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Tillis, will authorize Yellow Ribbon program eligibility for dependents receiving Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits under the Fry Scholarship. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act, introduced by Senators Blumenthal and Tillis, will provide relief for veterans’ whose education benefits through the Post-9/11 GI Bill are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. It will expand the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) authority to restore the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits of veterans who are affected by the permanent closure of educational institutions. Currently, the VA cannot fully restore a veterans’ benefits if a school they attend permanently closes. ###
04.28.2016	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered a Senate floor speech to urge the Senate to pass the Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2016. Earlier this year, Senator Tillis introduced the bipartisan legislation with Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD), Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The legislation ensures that the U.S. government works in a coordinated manner using its full range of tools, including diplomatic, political, financial, and intelligence capabilities, to provide early warnings about at-risk communities and states in order to help prevent mass atrocities against civilians. This legislation strengthens atrocity prevention efforts by: Authorizing the establishment of a transparent, accountable, high-level Atrocity Prevention Board to advance an interagency effort to prevent mass atrocities and ensure a coordinated and effective response to emerging and ongoing atrocities; Authorizing the Complex Crises Fund, overseen by the Administrator of USAID, to support emergency efforts to prevent or respond to emerging or unforeseen foreign complex crises overseas, including potential mass atrocities and conflict; Mandating training for Department of State and USAID Foreign Service Officers at high risk posts to recognize patterns of escalation and early warning signs of potential atrocities or violence and; Encouraging the Director of National Intelligence to include in his/her annual testimony to Congress on threats to US national security a review of countries or regions at risk of mass atrocities or genocide Joining Senators Tillis and Cardin in supporting the Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2016 are co-sponsors Senators Christopher Murphy (D-CT), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Christopher Coons (D-DE), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Edward Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Robert Casey (D-PA), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). The legislation is actively supported by 26 atrocity prevention and human rights groups. The list can be found here. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FULL SPEECH HERE. Tillis on the role Congress can play to stop genocide:Congress has an important leadership role. We can help ensure that America has the tools to combat genocide and atrocities, and combat violent conflict. This is why I joined Senator Cardin in introducing the Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act. [WATCH HERE] Tillis on the humanitarian consequences of genocide:If you think that this is a problem that is “over there”, think again. Terrorism has reached our shores. It has devastated some of the great cities of the world—London, Paris, Brussels, Madrid and Bali. As a result of conflict, there are now a record 60 million displaced men, women and children. That is more than at the height of displacement during World War II. Responding to the dire needs of those fleeing violence has driven a 600% increase in global humanitarian aid over the past 10 years, from $3.5 billion in 2004 to $20 billion in 2015. I have seen the human cost in the refugee camps along the Turkish-Syrian border, I was there a few weeks ago. These were Muslims fleeing ISIS and a bloodthirsty dictator who unleashed chemical weapons on his own people. [WATCH HERE] Tillis on the importance of genocide prevention to North Carolina:As the Senator from North Carolina, I also have a special reason for supporting this legislation that has the potential to fuse diplomacy, intelligence and foreign aid, in turn prioritize government action to prevent future atrocities. That is important to me because my state is the tip of the American spear. When diplomacy fails, it is the 82nd Airborne Division, the Special Forces from Fort Bragg and United States Marines from Camp Lejeune that are going to go resolve the conflict. We want to avoid those conflicts, and we owe it to them to do better by putting partisanship aside and by taking proactive steps to avoid sending our servicemembers into harm’s way to confront a conflict that could have been prevented without firing a single shot. [WATCH HERE]
04.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced legislation aimed at supporting Fort Bragg’s rapid deployment capabilities. Tillis’ legislation requires the Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the Commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, to submit a report to the Senate outlining plans to extend the runway at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield and to indicate whether such project is a priority for the Army. Earlier this week, The Fayetteville Observer reported that leaders at Fort Bragg want the runway at Pope Airfield to be extended to accommodate the airlift requirements of America’s Global Response Force, whose mission is to have the units of the XVIII Airborne Corps anywhere in the world within 48 hours notice. C-17 and C-5 aircraft cannot depart fully fueled with a full load of paratroopers due to the current 8,500 foot takeoff length of the Pope Airfield runway. Fully loaded C-17s and C-5s require a takeoff length of 10,500 feet, and 11,500 feet, respectively. VIDEO: Senator Tillis delivers a floor speech today announcing his legislation to prioritize Fort Bragg’s rapid deployment capabilities. “Extending the Pope Runway to accommodate the airlift requirements of the Global Response Force and the XVIII Airborne Corps is a national strategic priority,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation, which I will also be offering as an amendment to the NDAA during mark-up, requires the Army to report to the Senate plans to extend the runway at Pope and whether or not this is a priority for the Army. Our paratroopers and our taxpayers need to know.” ###
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senator John McCain (R-AZ) to introduce the Care Veterans Deserve Act of 2016, legislation that would expand access to care at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) while enhancing choice and flexibility in veterans health care. The legislation supplements and expands on the major reforms enacted by the Veterans’ Access to Care Through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014, which was signed into law in the wake of the scandal of denied and delayed care at VA hospitals around the country. Senator Tillis spoke at a press conference earlier today to help announce the introduction of the legislation. Watch the video here. “While major progress has been made in reforming the VA, much more needs to be done to tear down bureaucratic hurdles that are denying veterans the flexible, quality care they have earned and deserve,” said Senator McCain. “This legislation is critical to expanding access to care for working veterans, while ensuring every veteran has flexibility and choice – no matter where they live or how long they are waiting for care. We have a long way to go to reform the VA, but this legislation offers important short- and long-term solutions to ensure our veterans receive the care they deserve now and well into the future.” “The Care Veterans Deserve Act will make it easier for the brave men and women who have served our nation to have access to timely and reliable health care services, regardless of where they live,” said Senator Tillis. “The legislation also continues efforts to apply the private sector’s best practices to the VA system, which will cut down on waste and inefficiency and ultimately help deliver higher quality care for our veterans.” Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), John Cornyn (R-TX), Ted Cruz (R-TX), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) joined Senator Tillis in co-sponsoring the legislation. The Care Veterans Deserve Act would address a major complaint by today’s veterans of never-ending wait-times for appointments by implementing the following changes: Give Veterans Access to Walk-In Clinics Allow all veterans enrolled the VA health care system to visit walk-in clinics without pre-authorization from the VA or copayment by the veteran Require the VA to contract with a national chain of walk-in clinics to provide veterans access Ensure walk-in clinics notify the VA of veteran services in order to ensure patient health records are up to date Expand VA Operating Hours to Nights and Weekends Require the VA to extend VA pharmacy hours to Saturday, Sunday, federal holidays and until 8pm on weekdays to provide comparable pharmacy services offered by retail pharmacies Enable qualified, community health care providers to offer volunteer services to veterans on nights and weekends Make the Veteran Choice Card Program Permanent and Universal Make the pilot Veteran Choice Card program permanent Make every qualified veteran – no matter where they live or how long they are waiting for care – eligible for the Veteran Choice Card Best-Practices Peer-Review Encourage the VA to undergo a best-practices peer-review by some of the best hospital networks in the nation such as the Cleveland Clinic and Mayo Clinic Prioritize review of VA hospitals with the longest wait-times or with the worst health outcomes as determined by the VA Expand Telemedicine at the VA Allow VA health care professionals licensed, registered or certified in a state to use telemedicine to provide treatment to veterans in other states ###
04.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) showcased several North Carolina foods and products during the Senate GOP’s Thursday Lunch Group. Each week, one Republican senator hosts the Thursday Lunch Group to showcase cuisine from their respective states. “It was an honor to treat my colleagues to a fantastic North Carolina meal and show them what real barbecue tastes like,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m also pleased that my colleagues are bringing home a great sampling of food and agricultural products from North Carolina, as well as items adorned with the logos of some of our state’s outstanding public universities.” Today’s lunch was catered by Parker’s Barbecue, a Greenville, North Carolina institution. During the lunch, Senator Tillis introduced and thanked Parker’s Barbecue owner Billy Parker, who traveled to Washington, D.C. to prepare the meal for the senators. The menu included: Whole hog barbecue Fried chicken Brunswick stew Cole slaw Mac & cheese Cornsticks NC garden salad Fried okra Pork skins Krispy Kreme doughnuts Additionally, the senators received gift bags filled with the following North Carolina products: Cheerwine (Salisbury, NC) North Carolina Peanuts (Nashville, NC) Scott Farms Sweet Potatoes (Lucama, NC) Sun Dog 130 Corn Whisky (Concord, NC) Texas Pete (Winston-Salem, NC) Also included in the gift bags were items from the following North Carolina universities: East Carolina University Pirate koozie, Elizabeth City State paper clip, North Carolina State pen and stadium cup, UNC-Chapel Hill knapsack and stadium cup, UNC-Charlotte pen, UNC School of the Arts carpenter pencil, UNC Wilmington pen and stadium Cup, Western Carolina University pen and lapel pin. No taxpayer funds were used to purchase the lunch or North Carolina products. ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During today’s Senate Armed Services Seapower Subcommittee hearing, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) questioned Lieutenant General Jon Davis, Deputy Commandant of the Marine Corps for Aviation, and Vice-Admiral Paul Grosklags, Commander of Naval Air Systems, on the urgency for the Marines Corps to prioritize infrastructure projects at Cherry Point. Tillis specifically requested a public commitment from the Marines Corps that the F-35 Lift Fan Repair Facility was on the top of the Commandant’s priority list. In response, Admiral Grosklags said that the F-35 Lift Fan Repair Facility was “absolutely critical” for Cherry Point. General Davis added that “the Lift Fan Facility is an important part of Cherry Point…I think right now we are just finding out how to pay for the facility. We have done the security improvements we need to with Cherry Point, and that’s going to be one of our major F-35 bases in the Marine Corps.” The commitment from the Navy and Marines Corps comes after Senator Tillis secured funding last year for a new security fence at Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point to set the stage for major infrastructure improvements to the base. Cherry Point is the largest airfield in the Marine Corps and is slated to begin receiving the F-35 B Joint Strike Fighter, the replacement for the AV8-B Harrier, before the end of the decade. Last year, Senator Tillis also received a commitment from the F-35 Joint Program Office that the F-35 Lift Fan Repair Facility, vital to the maintenance of the vertical take-off and landing capabilities of the F-35, will be housed at Cherry Point. Read the letter here. Watch the exchange between Senator Tillis and General Davis and Admiral Grosklags here: ###
04.20.2016	Senate Unanimously Passes Bipartisan Measure Recognizing Benefits to Nation’s Youth, Promise of New Initiative WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) recently cosponsored a Senate resolution to recognize the immeasurable benefits of the national 4-H program for young people and its newly-launched “Grow True Leaders” campaign. The Senate unanimously passed the resolution yesterday. “I am happy the Senate came together to recognize the more than 10,000 4-H programs in North Carolina and the 7 million 4-H participants across the nation,” said Senator Tillis. “As the largest youth organization in the United States, 4-H plays a profound role in developing the leadership and public speaking skills of younger generations of Americans.” Last week, Senator Tillis spoke at the National 4-H Council Congressional Breakfast in Washington, D.C. and met with attendees visiting from North Carolina. The 4-H movement supports young people through programs designed to shape future leaders and innovators, particularly in rural communities. The resolution was introduced by Senators Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND). In addition to Senator Tillis, the other cosponsors include Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), John Barrasso (R-WY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Bob Casey (D-PA), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Chris Coons (D-DE), John Cornyn (R-TX), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Steve Daines (R-MT), Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Cory Gardner (R-CO), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Angus King (I-ME), Jeff Merkley (R-OR), John McCain (R-AZ), Jerry Moran (R-KS), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Gary Peters (D-MI), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Tom Udall (D-NM), and David Vitter (R-LA). ###
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON –Today, the Senate approved the Corolla Wild Horse Protection Act, an amendment sponsored by Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC). The amendment takes actions to ensure the genetic diversity and viability of the herd so that these horses are not lost forever. The amendment also allows the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to manage the herd at no cost to taxpayers. The amendment passed by voice vote. “I’m glad the Senate approved this amendment,” said Sen. Burr. “The Corolla Wild Horses have lived on North Carolina’s shores for centuries and are an iconic part of the Outer Banks community. The passage of this amendment preserves an important piece of North Carolina’s heritage and will allow the Corolla horses to delight locals and visitors for years to come.” “I’m pleased that the Senate unanimously approved our amendment to help save North Carolina’s Corolla Wild Horses,” said Sen. Tillis. “Many people who have vacationed in North Carolina remember the days when these majestic horses could be sighted on our beautiful beaches, and our amendment will play an important part in ensuring future generations of Americans have their own opportunity to see the Corolla Wild Horses.” “I have had to watch the agonizing genetic decline of these historic horses escalate over the last ten years,” said Karen McCalpin, Executive Director of the Corolla Wild Horse Fund. “Senators Burr and Tillis have saved one of the oldest and rarest strains of Colonial Spanish Mustangs in the world. These horses are beloved by hundreds of thousands of people all across America. We are so grateful to Senator Burr and to Senator Tillis for ensuring that these unique horses will be guaranteed a genetically healthy future for generations to come.” Both Sen. Burr and Sen. Tillis spoke in support of the amendment on the Senate floor today. WATCH Sen. Burr’s remarks WATCH Sen. Tillis’ remarks The text of the amendment is available here. ###
04.19.2016	Last Month, The Air Force Only Met 61% Of The Army’s Paratrooper Jump Requirements TILLIS: “This is about fulfilling the Army’s requirements. This is about having their back. This is about making sure that the men and women who will be asked at a moment’s notice to assemble on the Green Ramp at Pope Army Airfield and to go wherever they must to defend freedom are at their highest state of readiness. The performance to this point suggests that the Air Force is failing its customer service commitment for the Army.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered a Senate floor speech to provide an update on the Pentagon’s failure to meet the Army’s paratrooper training requirements at Fort Bragg. Earlier this year, the Pentagon announced it would be dismantling the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield, claiming that it would be more cost effective to fly in planes from other parts of the country to serve the XVIII Airborne Corps and would not compromise the Army’s training and readiness. However, the Air Force has subsequently fallen woefully short of fulfilling the Army’s training requirements for paratrooper jumps. The Air Force only fulfilled 61% of the Army’s required number of jumps in March of 2016, one month after failing to meet its requirements in February. The March numbers were 1,300 jumps below that of February. The Army had to augment the lack of paratroop support by having an additional 375 jumps from Army helicopters. The XVIII Airborne Corps has been clear that it requires 10,000 parachute jumps a month to be proficient. Army regulations state that 8,000 jumps a month are the minimum to keep the Sky Dragons and the All American Division current. The Air Force has failed to meet the 8,000 chute minimum, much less the 10,000 jump requirement Fort Bragg says it must have. Parachute Jumps at Fort Bragg – March 2016 Required Exited % of Required Parachute Jumps 10,000 6,144 61% The inadequate number of jumps are illuminating considering that Fort Bragg had outstanding flying weather during the first three months of the year, raising concerns over how much further the Air Force will fall short of the Army’s requirements during the thunderstorm season of summer. Senator Tillis has been leading the effort with the North Carolina Congressional delegation to protect the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg and ultimately ensure that the Army’s training requirements are being met. During his speech, Senator Tillis stated he will be working with Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain to push the Pentagon to answer when they expect to meet the training needs of the Global Response Force. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FULL SPEECH HERE. Tillis on the Pentagon’s strategically flawed decision to dismantle the 440th Airlift Wing: “In the 15 months that I have had the privilege to represent North Carolina in the Senate, I’ve made the readiness of the XVIII Airborne one of my top priorities. In fact, you'd think it would be everybody's top priority. But I've watched budget cutters in the Air Force slowly chip away at the abilities of commanders at Fort Bragg to adequately train their paratroopers at Pope Army Airfield. This year the Air Force began dismantling the one Air Force tactical unit at Pope, the 440th Airlift Wing, capable of providing daily and ad hoc support for Fort Bragg soldiers. I said at the time that the removal of the 440th created unreasonable risk to the readiness of critical airborne units. They must be prepared to respond to a range of contingencies in very short time frames. I pointed out repeatedly that the deactivation of the 440th comes at a time when the nation is facing growing uncertainty and increasing threats abroad that could require a military response, and it's a response that only forces at Fort Bragg can fulfill.” [WATCH HERE] Tillis on the Pentagon “suspending disbelief” to justify its decision: “Air Force leadership stated that after any deactivation of the 440th, out-of-state aircraft would support all airlift requirements for Fort Bragg units at Pope. The Air Force asked me to suspend disbelief. They told me to accept that it is more cost effective for units to fly from Little Rock, Arkansas, or McChord Air Force Base in Washington State rather than have planes stationed at Fort Bragg. I did my best to ensure that the Air Force understood what the Army’s requirements were and I promised them that if they moved the 440th I would be monitoring their ability to meet requirements for as long as I’m in the U.S. Senate.” [WATCH HERE] Tillis keeping the pressure on the Pentagon to meet the Army’s training requirements: “I hope the Air Force knows that I have their back as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. But, in this case, this is about fulfilling the Army’s requirements. This is about having their back. This is about making sure that the men and women who will be asked at a moment’s notice to assemble on the Green Ramp at Pope Army Airfield and to go wherever they must to defend freedom are at their highest state of readiness. The performance to this point suggests that the Air Force is failing its customer service commitment for the Army. No business in America would survive if the supplier dictates to the customer how and when they’re going to get their product. But that’s exactly what’s happening with the Air Force’s relationship with the Army, and they’re failing. I will ask Senator McCain to inquire as to when the Air Force expects to meet the needs of the Global Response Force…If they can’t answer that question then it is time for us to consider other options.” [WATCH HERE] ###
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced the introduction of a Senate resolution to designate April 18, 2016, as National Lineman Appreciation Day to honor the role line workers have in building, maintaining, and restoring important electrical infrastructure across the nation. "It is important we show appreciation to the resolute men and women who labor for us every day,” said Senator Tillis. "Thank you to the unsung workers who work diligently to help ensure the safety, reliability, comfort and convenience of electricity that families and businesses throughout America rely on." ###
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Al Franken (D-MN) introduced a bipartisan bill to fix a federal oversight that’s prevented thousands of American veterans—who, about 40 years ago, cleaned up nuclear testing sites in the Marshall Islands while often working without protective gear—from getting access to the care they need. Many of these veterans suffer from cancer, respiratory diseases, and heart problems. But right now, they are not adequately compensated for their medical costs. The Atomic Veterans Healthcare Parity Act would tackle this issue by extending key Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare benefits to servicemembers who helped clean up the Marshall Islands between 1977-1980, an area subjected to more than 40 nuclear tests that remains partly uninhabitable due to high levels of radiation. “This bipartisan bill addresses an injustice by recognizing the courageous soldiers who were tasked with cleaning the fallout and debris from nuclear tests in the Marshall Islands during the 1970s,” said Senator Tillis. “Our legislation ensures that thousands of veterans would be able to receive access to the medical treatment for which their service should have entitled them to long ago.” “Around 40 years ago, thousands of members of the U.S. Armed Forces participated in the cleanup of nuclear testing sites in the Marshall Islands,” said Senator Franken. “Often clad in t-shirts, shorts, and boots, these servicemembers were exposed to radioactive waste, and many are now facing serious health problems. But despite being put in harm’s way, these veterans are not being adequately compensated. This is outrageous, and it’s an oversight that needs to be fixed immediately. Our bipartisan bill will bring these veterans access to the care they need and deserve.” You can read a copy of the bill by clicking here. ###
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted overwhelmingly in favor of Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which was introduced last month by Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and Thom Tillis (R-NC). Kevin and Avonte’s Law provides resources to help families locate loved ones with Alzheimer’s disease, autism, or other related conditions that make them prone to wander—sometimes with tragic results. It reauthorizes the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program and authorizes funding to be used for the purchase of tracking technology that helps the families of a child with developmental disabilities recover their child in the event they become separated. “I’m proud to join Senators Grassley and Schumer in supporting Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which will help save lives and give families a greater peace of mind,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation has a deep personal meaning for me, as I was a caregiver for my grandmother during her battle with Alzheimer’s disease. We should be moving heaven and earth to help families and caregivers reunite with loved ones who wander and disappear, and Kevin and Avonte’s Law can truly make a difference in preventing tragedies.” Kevin and Avonte’s Law has been endorsed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, the Alzheimer’s Association, American Society on Aging, Autism Speaks, The Arc, National Autism Association, Safe Minds, and other organizations. ###
04.12.2016	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Carper (D-DE) applauded the Senate for passing S. 2133, the Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Act, which will help federal agencies better detect and prevent fraud. The bipartisan bill, introduced by Senators Tillis and Carper, is cosponsored by Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Claire McCaskill (D-MO), and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), and requires the Office of Management and Budget, in coordination with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), to issue guidelines for agencies to establish and implement controls to prevent, detect, and respond to fraud. “This bill utilizes the lessons learned from the success of the private sector in fighting waste and fraud, and will ultimately help protect federal, taxpayer-supported programs by identifying vulnerabilities and closing the gaps,” said Senator Tillis. “I’m pleased that the Senate came together to pass legislation that will require more accountability for federal agencies and better protect Americans and their hard-earned tax dollars from the risk of fraud.” “We have a responsibility to ensure that federal agencies do a better job managing federal programs and delivering services more efficiently and at a lower cost,” said Senator Carper. “This bill will, among other things, require federal officials to determine what areas of government spending are at the greatest risk for fraud, develop an action plan to address vulnerabilities, and then share those solutions across agencies with similar programs. I thank my Senate colleagues for passing this common sense and bipartisan legislation in a timely manner and urge the House to do the same.” Specifically, the Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Act creates a working group to improve the sharing of information on best practices, data analytics and techniques among agencies to better detect and prevent fraud in real time rather than during the end of the year audit. An amendment offered by Senators Carper and Tillis aligns the bill with the companion legislation offered in the House, H.R. 4180, Fraud Reduction and Data Analytics Act of 2015. The language offered will allow OMB to add additional members, such as the Chief Information Officer, Chief Procurement Officer or Chief Operating Officer, to the working group.
04.12.2016	Bill Gives Congressional Oversight of GITMO Transfers WASHINGTON – This week, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) helped introduce the Protections Against Terrorist Transfer Act of 2016 (S. 2780) along with U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-KS), Steve Daines (R-MT), Roy Blunt (R-MO), Marco Rubio (R-FL) and James Inhofe (R-OK). The legislation would provide Congressional oversight of the transfer or release of Guantanamo Bay (GITMO) detainees. It would prohibit the transfer or release of any individual detained at GITMO to the custody of any foreign country unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to Congress that the individual no longer poses a continuing threat to the security of the United States, its citizens and its interests. “The Obama Administration’s previous transfer of terrorists from Guantanamo to other countries resulted in terrorists returning to the battlefield, jeopardizing the security of America and our allies,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation will give Congress some much-needed oversight in the transfer process to ultimately help protect the safety and security of the American people and American servicemembers who are stationed abroad.” The Protections Against Terrorist Transfer Act also retracts the automatic authorization to transfer or release an individual detained at GITMO after the submission of a 30-day notification to Congress. In its place, the legislation requires certification submission to the appropriate committees no later than 30 days after the Secretary makes a determination on the transfer or release. The Obama Administration has been rapidly transferring detainees from GITMO since 2010, releasing nearly 70 GITMO detainees since November 2014. On Wednesday, the DoD announced the release of another 12 detainees to two countries, reducing the 91 remaining GITMO detainees to 79. As we know, GITMO detainees continue to return to terrorism, such as Ibrahim al-Qosi, now a spokesman and recruiter for al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) or most recently Muhammad Salih Husayn al-Shaykh who has pledged to kill as many Americans as possible. With the total reengagement rate of GITMO detainees returning to the battlefield at more than 30 percent, an individual detained at GITMO who poses a continuing threat to the security of the United States should be held at GITMO. ###
04.06.2016	During today’s Senate Special Committee on Aging hearing, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) discussed the fight to end Alzheimer’s disease, and shared his own personal experience as a caregiver for a loved one with Alzheimer’s disease. “I met with the North Carolina delegation [from the Alzheimer’s Association] earlier this morning, and I was happy to see them, because this is something that I first got introduced to back in 1988 with my own grandmother. There are very few opportunities where the head and the heart align in areas of public policy in such a compelling way,” said Senator Tillis. “Clearly, if you’ve been touched by someone who has had Alzheimer’s, you know the personal drain that is has. I was a caregiver along with my mother and my two aunts for my grandmother, and I tried to educate myself so we could become better caregivers. Our instincts for providing care are almost the opposite of what we really need to do to provide care that is in the best interest of the person suffering from Alzheimer’s. So we have to spend far more resources today until we can find a cure and try to provide the support and education that the caregivers need so we can enrich their lives and they’re in a better position to enrich the lives of people who are suffering from Alzheimer’s.” WATCH: Senator Tillis shares his experience as a caregiver for a loved one with Alzheimer’s disease and stresses the importance of providing caregivers with support and education. “As we proceed to a treatment and cure for this disease, it will let us accelerate the pace for diseases that do not necessarily have as broad of an impact. We can save lives, we can save heartbreak, and we can save money. I can’t imagine a more compelling case for focusing on a cure and accelerating more sophisticated, broader-based options for caregivers,” said Senator Tillis. “My office is wide open to looking for those opportunities to help us free up even resources that are already invested, but are not being invested for their most productive use.” WATCH: Senator Tillis notes that investing resources to find a cure for Alzheimer’s disease can save lives and money. Last month, Senator Tillis joined Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Chuck Schumer (D-NY) to introduce Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which will help families locate missing loved ones who have Alzheimer’s disease, autism or other related conditions that may cause them to wander away from their caregivers. Last year, Senator Tillis co-sponsored the Ensuring Useful Research Expenditures is Key for Alzheimer’s (EUREKA) Act, which creates prized-based incentives to encourage more public-private collaboration in the fight against Alzheimer’s disease.
04.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) questioned Admiral Michael S. Rogers, Commander of the U.S. Cyber Command, about the cybersecurity threats that hostile nation-states, criminal organizations and terrorist groups pose to America’s public and private sectors. “We’re never going to have the perfect weapon. Absent a game-changing offensive or defensive capability of the scale of the Manhattan Project, you can’t possibly get inside the decision cycles of the state actors, the organized crime, the terrorists,” said Senator Tillis. “We have 28 million small businesses, close to 19,000 businesses with 500 employees or more, we have distributive public infrastructure, whether it’s electric, water or gas. The concern I have is that right now we have the [defense] equivalent of guerilla sniper fire or mortar attacks. I think someday that we will see a nation-state or organized crime or a terrorist organization literally be in the position to execute a multi-pillar attack to disrupt you [the military] and then disrupt your ability to react to it by attacking the private sector, which is also integral to your supply chain.” Watch Senator Tillis’ conversation with Admiral Rogers about America’s cybersecurity infrastructure here: ###
03.24.2016	WASHINGTON – Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today applauded VA Secretary Robert McDonald’s decision to add bladder cancer to the list of presumptive diseases. This afternoon, at a Community Assistance Panel (CAP) meeting at the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) in Atlanta, the VA announced the establishment of a presumption of service connection for veterans who suffer from bladder cancer as a result of the contaminated drinking water at Camp Lejeune. This will allow those veterans suffering from bladder cancer to qualify for disability compensation. The announcement comes after Senators Burr and Tillis applied pressure on the VA to presume disability status for veterans who developed bladder cancer after serving at Camp Lejeune. While the VA announced last year that it would presume disability status for veterans who had served at Camp Lejeune and were suffering from a list of eight diseases, bladder cancer, one of the most common health problems in affected veterans, was inexplicably omitted from the list. On March 9, 2016, Senators Burr and Tillis sent a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Shaun Donovan urging him to not allow costs to be a deterrent in providing disability presumption for Lejeune veterans who developed bladder cancer. “While there was no excuse for the VA to initially deny disability compensation for veterans who developed bladder cancer as a result of past toxic water contamination at Camp Lejeune, I’m grateful that the VA made the right decision in the end,” said Senator Tillis. “We have a debt of obligation to the veterans, family members, and other civilians who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune, and today’s announcement helps us provide hundreds of more veterans with the compensation they need and deserve. “I’m glad the VA is stepping up to help the veterans who were negligently poisoned by the water at Camp Lejeune,” said Senator Burr. “The scientific link between bladder cancer and service at Camp Lejeune is clear. I had a lot of questions for the VA when bladder cancer was not included on the initial list of presumptive diseases. This is an important step in the right direction.” ###
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis issued the following statement on the terrorist attacks in Brussels: “My thoughts and prayers are with Brussels and the innocent lives that were taken from us today. The United States stands in solidarity with the people and government of Belgium. If terrorists believe these sorts of cowardly attacks against our values will weaken the resolve of the United States and our NATO allies to defeat radical Islamic terrorism, they are profoundly mistaken.” ###
03.21.2016	WASHINGTON – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) today made the following statement on the death of Staff Sgt. Louis F. Cardin who was killed in Iraq over the weekend in an attack by Islamic State militants: "We are deeply saddened that one of our U.S. Marines died fighting the Islamic State over the weekend. Based in Camp Lejeune, Staff Sgt. Louis F. Cardin made the ultimate sacrifice battling ISIS. Our prayers are with him and his family.” ###
03.19.2016	TILLIS ON THE SUPREME COURT VACANCY: “For the good of the nation, I hope the President and the Democratic leadership do not repeat their mistakes of the past. I hope they’ll accept, however reluctantly, the fact that the American people will have a voice in this Supreme Court decision, and start focusing on the issues that concern hardworking Americans.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered the Weekly Republican Address, during which he discussed why the American people deserve to have a voice in the selection of the next Supreme Court Justice and the need for the Senate to focus on bipartisan efforts to help hardworking Americans. “The President and Democratic leaders aren’t exactly thrilled with giving the American people a voice. And contrary to their claims, the Senate is doing its job and fulfilling its constitutional obligation by deferring consent in order to let the people’s voice be heard,” said Senator Tillis. “Both sides can respectfully agree to disagree, but it’s now time to move on to address the many pressing challenges facing our nation.” The Weekly Republican Address is available in both audio and video format. The audio of the address is available here, the video is available here, and you may download the address here. A full transcript of the address follows: “Hi, I’m Thom Tillis, Senator from the great state of North Carolina. I want to speak with you today about the vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court. “It’s a topic that has generated a lot of attention—and frankly, a lot of misinformation, especially since President Obama named a nominee earlier this week. “There are a couple of things that make this vacancy unique. “First, the seat became vacant in the middle of an election year, literally as Americans are casting their ballots to help choose the next President of the United States. “Second, the seat will determine the balance of the court for generations to come, as we’re replacing the incomparable Antonin Scalia. “Justice Scalia was widely admired and respected for defending the original intent of the Constitution and its prescribed separation of powers, and he served as a critical check on President Obama’s executive overreaches. “While the Constitution allows the President to nominate a Supreme Court justice, our Founding Fathers also made sure to give the Senate advise and consent authority, to help protect the integrity of our system of checks and balances. “The Senate can confirm a nominee, we can reject a nominee, or we can simply choose to withhold consideration of the nomination altogether so the American people can weigh in on this important decision. “This is about principle, not the person the President has nominated. “And it’s why the majority of the Senate has chosen to use this unique situation as an opportunity to let the American people have a voice. “The President and Democratic leaders aren’t exactly thrilled with giving the American people a voice. And contrary to their claims, the Senate is doing its job and fulfilling its constitutional obligation by deferring consent in order to let the people’s voice be heard. “Both sides can respectfully agree to disagree, but it’s now time to move on to address the many pressing challenges facing our nation. “We know good things happen when both parties in Washington cast aside their areas of disagreement and instead focus on identifying areas of common ground. “We saw that last week when the Senate passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, bipartisan legislation that gives states and local communities vital tools they need to combat the painkiller and heroin epidemic. “It’s a great accomplishment, but there is still much more work to be done this year. “We need to fund our military and make sure our brave men and women have the equipment and training they need to keep themselves and our nation safe. “We need to ensure veterans are receiving the best health care possible and more healthcare choices. And we need to hold VA bureaucrats accountable. “This year, I’ll be leading an effort to reform the military’s health insurance program–and work to ensure that military families with autistic children have access to the care and the therapy they need. “Senate Republicans already have their sleeves rolled up and we’re ready to get this and much more done. “The question now is what choice the President and Democratic leaders will make. “Will they join us in doing our jobs on behalf of the American people? Or will they instead seek to further divide our nation by turning the Supreme Court process into a blatantly partisan back and forth? “Are they going to resort to blocking and sabotaging important legislation and good-faith efforts to help the American people…all in the name of seeking to score cheap political points in an election year? “Senate Democrats should remember the message the American people sent, during the 2014 election, which resulted in a new Republican Senate majority and 12 new Republican Senators, including myself. “American voters made it clear they were sick and tired of the bitter partisanship and inaction of the then Democrat-controlled Senate. And they were frustrated with the President’s overreliance on executive orders to bypass attempts at compromise and cooperation with Congress. “For the good of the nation, I hope the President and the Democratic leadership do not repeat their mistakes of the past. “I hope they’ll accept, however reluctantly, the fact that the American people will have a voice in this Supreme Court decision, and start focusing on the issues that concern hardworking Americans. “I hope the President’s final months in office will be spent working with both parties to do great things for our nation. “That’s what the American people want. That’s what the American people deserve. “Thank you for your time, God bless you and may God continue to bless the United States America.” ###
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement: “While President Obama is entitled to nominate an individual to the Supreme Court, the Senate has made it clear it will be exercising its Constitutional authority to withhold consent of the nomination. We are in the middle of a presidential election, and the Senate majority is giving the American people a voice to determine the direction of the Supreme Court. This is about the principle, not the person. Rather than drag the nation into a bitter, partisan fight over a confirmation process that will never come to pass, I hope President Obama will use his final months in office to work across the aisle with Congress to produce meaningful solutions that create new opportunities for hardworking Americans.” ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Obama Administration reversed its position and announced mid- and South Atlantic coastal states, including North Carolina, would not be eligible for offshore energy exploration: “I am extremely disappointed in the Obama Administration’s decision to effectively end this debate before it even starts. I will continue to work with my colleagues to pursue safe and responsible energy exploration opportunities that will create good-paying jobs and move America closer to energy independence.” The President’s announcement today is a complete reversal of a plan he previously supported to permit offshore energy exploration off the southeast Atlantic coast for the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2017-2022. In response to the original plan, Senator Tillis joined a bipartisan group of Senators to introduce legislation that would allow mid- and South Atlantic coastal states – Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia – to share in the revenue from energy resources developed offshore, an arrangement similar to that of Gulf Coast states. ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) today introduced bipartisan legislation to help veterans who have been exposed to toxic burn pits. Many believe the smoke produced from the burning of waste on military bases in Iraq and Afghanistan has exposed servicemembers to harmful substances. Items such as plastics, aerosol cans, electronic equipment, human waste, metal containers, tires, and batteries are thrown into these open pits, sometimes doused with jet fuel, and set ablaze. Health effects from exposure to chemicals found in burn pits may include cancer, neurological effects, reproductive effects, respiratory toxicity, and cardiovascular toxicity. The Helping Veterans Exposed to Burn Pits Act would create a center of excellence within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in the prevention, diagnosis, mitigation, treatment, and rehabilitation of health conditions relating to exposure to burn pits. “The smoke from burn pits in Afghanistan and Iraq exposed American servicemembers to harmful substances, and we have a moral obligation to provide them with care for health complications that developed as a result,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan bill moves our nation closer to fulfilling that obligation by creating a center of excellence within the VA to assist in the diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation for veterans exposed to toxic burn pits.” “‎Veterans who fought on the front lines in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming home with major health complications that could be linked to their exposure to toxic burn pits," said Senator Klobuchar. “Our bipartisan bill will help address the health needs of veterans who have fallen ill after being exposed to burn pits. It’s clear we need to do more to make sure that all veterans get the care and support they need when they return home from the battlefield.” This legislation has been endorsed by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Sergeant Sullivan Center, American Lung Association, American Thoracic Society, and the Coalition for Pulmonary Fibrosis. Tillis is a member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and has co-introduced 7 bipartisan bills that have been referred to the committee, which are aimed at improving health care services at the VA and increasing educational opportunities for veterans and their family members. Klobuchar also has worked in a bipartisan manner to modernize G.I. Bill benefits for our troops and to strengthen funding veterans’ health care, including service related injuries related to Agent Orange exposure. She has also authored bipartisan bills on behalf of our nation’s veterans and their families to expand job training and employment opportunities and to reduce veterans’ homelessness. ###
03.10.2016	TILLIS: “As I travel across North Carolina and meet with constituents, I repeatedly hear stories of how opioid addiction has taken a personal toll on families and communities. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act takes a big step in the right direction by providing grants to substance abuse agencies, local governments, and non-profit organizations in areas of North Carolina and the rest of the nation that are being hit the hardest by opioid abuse.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in favor of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), which passed the Senate in a 94-1 vote. Senator Tillis is a co-sponsor of the bipartisan legislation. “Opioid addiction can affect nearly anyone in any part of our country, and it’s having devastating consequences on our cities, suburbs, and rural communities,” said Senator Tillis. “As I travel across North Carolina and meet with constituents, I repeatedly hear stories of how opioid addiction has taken a personal toll on families and communities. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act takes a big step in the right direction by providing grants to substance abuse agencies, local governments, and non-profit organizations in areas of North Carolina and the rest of the nation that are being hit the hardest by opioid abuse. I am happy the Senate could come together to pass this important legislation.” In 2014, 1,358 North Carolinians died from drug overdoses, more than the number who died from automobile accidents. A 2012 CDC report showed that in North Carolina, there were 97 painkiller prescriptions written per 100 people. The CDC has also concluded that people are 40 times more likely to be addicted to heroin if they are addicted to prescription painkillers. The Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act brings together the experiences and recommendations of drug addiction experts, law enforcement, health care providers, first responders, and the patient community most affected by the opioid epidemic. The legislation also addresses the strain the addiction crisis places on our criminal justice system by providing more resources to identify and treat incarcerated Americans, helping put them on the path to recovery, which in turn could lower the nation’s recidivism and crime rates. Senator Tillis previously wrote an op-ed about the opioid epidemic and spoke on the Senate floor in support of the CARA legislation. READ SENATOR TILLIS’ OP-ED HERE. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FLOOR SPEECH HERE. ###
03.10.2016	Citing the mounting cost and health burdens on federal health programs, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and a bipartisan group of his colleagues are urging the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to implement a program to support family caregivers of those with Alzheimer’s disease. The bipartisan letter follows remarks by Secretary Sylvia Burwell about Alzheimer’s caregivers at an appropriations hearing last week. “Today, more than 15 million Americans are serving as a family caregiver to a loved one living with Alzheimer’s or dementia, providing nearly 18 billion hours of unpaid care annually. These loving but largely untrained and unsupported family caregivers face many challenges,” the Senators wrote in the letter. “Mounting evidence suggests that targeted support services directed to these informal family caregivers may help the caregiver prevent or mitigate these challenges and help keep an Alzheimer’s patient in the home setting for longer periods of time.” “We ask CMS to work to implement a demonstration program to more fully evaluate the impacts providing Alzheimer’s disease support services to caregivers would have on Medicare beneficiaries diagnosed with Alzheimer’s and related dementias, particularly on delaying or reducing their use of institutional long-term care and other health care services.” The letter was also signed by: Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Mark Kirk (R-IL), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The full text of the letter is below: March 4, 2016 Mr. Andrew SlavittActing AdministratorCenters for Medicare and Medicaid ServicesUnited States Department of Health and Human Services200 Independent Avenue SWWashington, DC 20201 Dear Acting Director Slavitt: Due to mounting cost and health burdens related to Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias on federal health programs, we are writing to urge the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to implement a program to support family caregivers of those with Alzheimer’s. We were encouraged by Secretary Burwell’s remarks at the recent Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee Hearing on the FY17 Budget Request for the Health & Human Services Department on this topic. We agree with the Secretary that we could do more and do better for this essential population. In order to do so, we specifically ask that CMS implement a demonstration program to evaluate the cost-saving opportunities associated with providing targeted Alzheimer’s disease support services to caregivers. Today, more than 15 million Americans are serving as a family caregiver to a loved one living with Alzheimer’s or dementia, providing nearly 18 billion hours of unpaid care annually. These loving but largely untrained and unsupported family caregivers face many challenges, including high levels of caregiver stress and depression; declines in physical, mental and emotional health; and financial shortfalls driven by both the costs associated with such care as well as the lost wages that are commonplace for caregivers of this population. Unfortunately, these immense challenges often lead to an Alzheimer’s patient’s premature entry into costly long-term care. Yet, mounting evidence suggests that targeted support services directed to these informal family caregivers may help the caregiver prevent or mitigate these challenges and help keep an Alzheimer’s patient in the home setting for longer periods of time. One caregiver support model that has been shown to drive down costs while improving caregiver and patient experiences is the New York University Caregiver Intervention (NYUCI). The NYUCI consists of individual and family counseling, participation in a caregiver support group, and ad-hoc counseling via telephone for caregivers and families to help them deal with the many challenges described above. After more than 25 years in the field, this program has been shown to delay long-term care admission by more than a year and-a-half and to improve caregiver health and well-being. Most recently, the program developers have validated the use of online training to rapidly and efficiently train counselors to provide the NYUCI. Results of a recent study involving more than 250 counselors demonstrated that their online training was as effective as in-person training, indicating further potential to rapidly and cost-effectively scale up such an intervention. The NYUCI model has been replicated and produced similar results in other states and regions. One analysis of the potential cost savings impact of the NYUCI, published in Health Affairs in 2014, suggests that if rolled out broadly in the state of Minnesota the direct medical cost savings could be $996 million over a 15 year period, with a range of nearly $100 million to $2.64 billion depending on the rate of adoption of the intervention. The Department of Veterans Affairs has implemented a similar type of intervention known as the Resources for Enhancing Alzheimer’s Caregiver Health or REACH program, which has also improved quality of life for caregivers. Given this promising body of evidence, we ask CMS to work to implement a demonstration program to more fully evaluate the impacts providing Alzheimer’s disease support services to caregivers would have on Medicare beneficiaries diagnosed with Alzheimer’s and related dementias, particularly on delaying or reducing their use of institutional long-term care and other health care services. We thank you in advance for giving this your full and prompt attention and would like to request a meeting with you and other members of your team over the coming weeks to discuss the path forward.
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Jerry Moran (R-KS) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter calling for an immediate postponement of planned reductions to TRICARE’s reimbursement rates for Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy to beneficiaries diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). TRICARE is a managed health care program for active duty and retired members of the uniformed services, their families, and survivors. The Defense Health Agency’s (DHA) cuts to TRICARE reimbursement rates for ABA are expected to become effective as of March 30, 2016, and will likely result in a severe reduction in access to crucial ABA services for the more than 26,000 children of military personnel and retirees with ASD. In the letter to Secretary Carter, the Senators question the validity of the reimbursement rates for ABA providers, noting DHA-commissioned studies have drawn conflicting conclusions. The Senators also note that the planned rate cuts to ABA will be particularly burdensome to TRICARE beneficiaries living in areas where the demand for autism services already outstrips the supply, making it even more difficult for their children to get the care they need. “We ask that the proposed ABA reimbursement rate reductions prescribed by the DHA be immediately postponed pending careful re-evaluation of the existing research on reimbursement rates, and consideration of additional rigorous study, particularly with regard to reimbursements for paraprofessionals,” wrote Senators Tillis, Gillibrand, Klobuchar, and Moran. “We urge that you take this action immediately before providers leave the TRICARE ABA services market and begin to no longer accept new TRICARE eligible ABA therapy patients. The children of our service men and women deserve nothing less.” Read the full text of the letter below or download it here. The Honorable Ashton B. Carter Secretary United States Department of Defense The Pentagon Washington, DC 20301 Dear Secretary Carter, We are writing to express our great concern about the Defense Health Agency’s (DHA) proposal to reduce TRICARE reimbursement rates in 2016 for Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy to beneficiaries diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). These rate cuts are expected to become effective on or around March 30, 2016, and will likely result in a substantive reduction in access to crucial ABA services for the more than 26,000 children of our military personnel and retirees with ASD. We, therefore, ask that you postpone these reimbursement rate cuts until valid reimbursement rates for ABA providers have been established. The current autism coverage under the TRICARE program began as a demonstration program on July 25, 2014 and is scheduled to end on December 31, 2018. The demonstration was designed to combine three different TRICARE programs that covered ABA services for beneficiaries into a single program with one uniform benefit. Among the objectives of the demonstration is to expand access to these services among TRICARE beneficiaries, especially active duty dependents. While we appreciate the need to monitor and address Defense Health Program costs, we are concerned that the new reimbursement rates are based on two DHA-commissioned studies, by RAND Corporation and Kennell and Associates, each of which calculated very different reimbursement rates. With such disparate conclusions, our confidence in the proposed reimbursement rates is limited. Despite these questionable conclusions, DHA has proposed a reduction of as much as 15% annually in reimbursement rates for ABA services, when the RAND study noted that the proposed rates are 35% below the national average. This ABA reimbursement rate cut is on top of a 5% cut in ABA services rates that affected 22 states and the District of Columbia in TRICARE’s North Region in 2015. The current proposed reimbursement cuts seem particularly injurious to TRICARE beneficiaries in locations where demand for autism services outstrips supply. The RAND study also noted that there are locations near large military bases throughout the United States where there is no access to ABA services at all. This study is corroborated by a recent study on military children with autism published in the Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, which found significant difficulties with availability and access to needed services. With the announced cuts, some ABA providers have already announced plans to leave certain service areas and we expect more providers will follow suit upon implementation of the cuts. Over time, given the disparity between the national average reimbursement rate and TRICARE’s proposed rates, we expect the imbalance between supply and demand to further reduce military family access to these ABA services. We are also concerned about the accuracy of data DHA is collecting about the demonstration program. To make changes in the reimbursement rate in the middle of the demonstration program will likely skew the results of the demonstration, especially as it relates to evaluating access, utilization, and the value of these TRICARE services. Ironically, the 15% reduction in reimbursement rates occurs at a time when public and private insurance payors are increasing access to autism services, as 43 states have now mandated autism coverage. Additionally, DHA’s proposed reimbursement rate cuts come at the same time DHA is imposing new certification requirements on all Behavior Technicians (BT) providing ABA services to TRICARE beneficiaries. While these certification requirements will ensure that TRICARE beneficiaries obtain ABA services from qualified technicians, they also impose additional costs on TRICARE ABA service providers. Certification may extend as many as 130 additional days to the time it takes to hire, train, and credential BTs to serve TRICARE beneficiaries. When considering that BTs are typically part-time employees with high turnover rates, these certification requirements will likely exacerbate the impact of reimbursement rate reductions. For these reasons, we ask that the proposed ABA reimbursement rate reductions prescribed by the DHA be immediately postponed pending careful re-evaluation of the existing research on reimbursement rates, and consideration of additional rigorous study, particularly with regard to reimbursements for paraprofessionals. We urge that you take this action immediately before providers leave the TRICARE ABA services market and begin to no longer accept new TRICARE eligible ABA therapy patients. The children of our service men and women deserve nothing less. Thank you very much for your attention to this request. Sincerely, Senator Thom Tillis Senator Kirsten Gillibrand Senator Amy Klobuchar Senator Jerry Moran ###
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, today spoke at the National Press Club to help announce the Department of Veterans Affairs’ new partnership with the PGA of America to support PGA HOPE, golf programming designed to assist with the physical, social and mental rehabilitation of military veterans with disabilities. Tillis was joined at the event with fellow Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV), Dr. David J. Shulkin, the Under Secretary of Health for the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, and Suzy Whaley, the Secretary of PGA of America. PGA HOPE assists veterans who are assimilating back into their communities through the social interaction the game of golf provides. Led by PGA professionals who are certified in golf instruction for veterans with disabilities, veterans either learn the rules of the game or refine their skills with the help of professionals. In support of the partnership, the VA will help the PGA identify disabled veterans who are candidates to participate in PGA HOPE golf programming in more than 50 locations across the nation. “An important part of truly transforming the VA and doing the right thing for veterans are the kinds of things we will do with PGA REACH and PGA HOPE. Working with the private sector, working with non-profits to create this fabric of support is critically important,” said Senator Tillis. “If you go to the VA or you go to the network of coffee shops we have down in North Carolina where veterans get together, [you see] the therapeutic value of having veterans sharing the either visible or invisible wounds of war, sharing their stories, and making friendships among themselves. The therapeutic value of that cannot be understated.” WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ REMARKS HERE: ###
03.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Steve Daines (R-MT), John Hoeven (R-ND), Thom Tillis (R-NC), John Boozman (R-AR) and Jerry Moran (R-KS) introduced the Veterans Choice Improvement Act of 2016. This legislation makes the Veterans Choice Program, which was created in 2014 to allow veterans to get needed health care outside of the VA system, a permanent program with advance funding. It will also make needed changes and reforms to address the bureaucratic delays, hassles and confusion that veterans have continued to experience in attempting to get health care. “We cannot let the failure of the VA bureaucracy prevent our veterans from receiving the health care they need and deserve,” said Senator Tillis. “By reducing wasteful redundancies within the VA and modernizing the outdated claims submission process, the Veterans Choice Improvement Act will help veterans in North Carolina and across the nation receive higher quality and more timely health care.” "Veterans deserve the best health care that America has to offer, but as we learned in 2014 from the waitlist scandals, VA is failing to deliver it," Senator Burr said. "The creation of the Veterans Choice program nearly two years ago was a good start, but there is much more we need to do if we are going to fulfill our promises to our veterans. I’ve heard from many veterans in North Carolina who tell me that they are still experiencing significant frustrations and delay in getting health care. My legislation cuts down on the bureaucratic delays, hassles and confusion that is standing in between veterans and the health care they need. Congress must take action on this legislation so that every American veteran will finally be able to rely on quality care without having to wait or drive far." “The Veterans Choice Program is critical to providing New Hampshire's veterans with choices regarding where they receive the health care they have earned,” said Senator Ayotte. “As part of our ongoing efforts to address shortcomings with the VA’s implementation of the program, the Veterans Choice Improvement Act of 2016 would make important reforms and ensure that the program is permanently extended,” said Senator Ayotte. “I urge my colleagues to support this legislation and I will continue my efforts to protect New Hampshire veterans’ health care choices.” “Problems with the Choice Act is the number one concern I hear from veterans in Montana. We need to ensure that the men and women who risked their lives for our country have every option available to receive the best care and treatment,” Daines stated. “Our country has a duty to uphold the promises it made to our veterans and this bill takes bold steps toward improving the entire Choice Act Program to ensure that happens." “Our veterans should not have to wait months or years to get the quality health care services they need, nor should they have to drive for hours to get routine care,” Senator Hoeven said. “Two years ago, we worked very hard to pass the Veterans Choice Program to address these issues, but clearly that legislation needs to be improved. The bill we’re introducing today will strengthen the Choice Act by cutting red tape and confusion and giving local private medical providers in North Dakota and across the nation the confidence they need to enter into service agreements with the VA. It will allow our vets, who didn’t delay defending our nation, to get the high quality care they need within their own communities and without delay.” The Veteran’s Choice Improvement Act addresses three key problems that have come to light since the creation of the Veterans Choice Program in 2014: Systemic confusion with accessing health care outside the VA: The VA has the legal authority to send veterans outside of the VA to receive care, but there are multiple programs, contracts and laws that confuse everyone involved. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act simplifies the process by consolidating redundant and overlapping programs into the Veterans Choice Program and creating one funding source for all non-VA care programs. This will streamline and simplify the process for veterans who need to go outside of the VA to receive care. Medical providers fear working with the VA, which is jeopardizing the ability of veterans to get the care they need: VA has an antiquated, slow, and inefficient claims processing system that often makes it very difficult for private medical providers to work with the VA. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act requires that the VA will create a modern, secure and efficient claims submission process with industry best practices. It gives strict timelines for reimbursement to providers and includes measures to make sure that the VA meets those timelines. The VA does not use local medical providers to help veterans, which means veterans have to drive for hours to receive care, even for simple things like getting eyeglasses. The Veterans Choice Improvement Act allows the VA to enter into provider agreements with local providers, which will help thousands of veterans who live in areas with health care shortages to receive the care they need much more easily and conveniently. A summary of the legislation is available here. The text of the legislation is available here.
03.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement on the passing of former first lady Nancy Reagan: “Susan and I are terribly saddened to learn of the passing of Nancy Reagan. On behalf of all North Carolinians, we send our prayers and condolences to the Reagan family. “As first lady, Nancy Reagan was the embodiment of grace and class, and she tirelessly led the fight against the scourge of drug abuse and addiction in our communities. “One of her lasting legacies—one that truly touched hearts across the globe—is the unwavering love, humility, and compassion she demonstrated caring for her husband during his battle with Alzheimer’s disease. The tremendous level of love and devotion Nancy and Ronald Reagan shared for one another is what every couple in America aims to someday achieve. They were truly a remarkable couple, and together they helped renew a great sense of optimism and hope in America during a time when it was most desperately needed.” ###
03.03.2016	“To hold hostage the CARA bill and shift the discussion to a genuine disagreement that we have with the minority on SCOTUS is literally costing lives. For those who sit here and want to hold up the CARA bill for the purposes of discussing the SCOTUS nomination, we don't even have a nominee yet… We need to recognize it's disgraceful to hold up the CARA bill over a genuine disagreement that we're going to have for months… Let's do our job. Let's do our job today by getting CARA passed.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to respond to Senate Democratic leaders who are delaying the final passage of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), legislation that provides much-needed assistance to states, local communities, and first responders in their fight against the nation’s growing opioid addiction epidemic. Senator Tillis is a co-sponsor of the legislation. Democratic leaders are delaying the passage of the anti-opioid addiction legislation due to their objection of the majority exercising their constitutional right to withhold consent of a President’s Supreme Court nominee, despite the fact President Obama hasn’t even named a nominee yet. Watch the exchange between Senator Thom Tillis and Senator Chuck Schumer here: SENATOR TILLIS’ REMARKS: “In North Carolina over the past 24 hours, some four people have died of a drug overdose. We had more deaths associated with drug overdoses than we had with car accidents last year…To hold hostage the CARA bill and shift the discussion to a genuine disagreement that we have with the minority on SCOTUS is literally costing lives. “For those who sit here and want to hold up the CARA bill for the purposes of discussing the SCOTUS nomination, we don't even have a nominee yet. There is going to be plenty of time in committee, there is going to be plenty of time on the floor to debate this difference of opinion between the minority and the majority. “But in the meantime, for people who would hold up passing the CARA bill over the SCOTUS nomination, what are you going to tell the two people, two friends of mine who over the last week after they heard my speech on the Senate floor come to me and say thank you for moving this bill. “Two of my friends have told me thank you for helping us increase the visibility and get to a point to where we're saving these lives? What are you going to tell the first responder who, if they had naloxone, could potentially save the lives of somebody who is falling on the floor and dying? “What are you going to tell them? “What are you going to tell the law enforcement officers who are going to go and try to help people live who have succumbed to addiction and opioid abuse? “What are you going to tell them by holding up this bill? “What are you going to tell the parents who are struggling, who need help with education, who need help with incarcerated children who may have succumbed to addiction, did the wrong thing and are in prison and now need help, they need to be rehabilitated, they need to be saved? “You know, at some point, we need to recognize that we do need to do things separately. We need to recognize it's disgraceful to hold up the CARA bill over a genuine disagreement that we're going to have for months. I'm one of the senators on the Judiciary Committee who signed the letter. I do not believe until we hear the vote of the people that we should hear a SCOTUS nomination, but I'm not here to talk about SCOTUS today. “I'm here to talk about saving lives. I'm here to talk about addressing the addiction problem that is growing. I'm here to talk about the sad, heartbreaking stories of families across this nation who are starving for help. “This bill helps. This bill appropriates over $100 million that can be spent between now and the end of September to save lives. If I come to the floor tomorrow, I'm going to be talking about four more lives that have been lost in North Carolina. Some that could have been saved if we would just do our job. “There is a lot of discussion about doing our job, right? “Well, let's do our job. Let's do our job today by getting CARA passed.” ###
03.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday evening, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) to introduce Kevin and Avonte’s Law, which will help families locate missing loved ones who have Alzheimer’s Disease, autism or other related conditions that may cause them to wander away from their caregivers. The legislation will reauthorize the expired Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program, and includes new provisions to support people with autism. “I’m honored to join Senator Grassley and Senator Schumer in their effort to create a system that will help locate children with autism who are prone to wandering,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation will give families in North Carolina and across the nation the peace of mind that our local communities and first responders have the resources to help find missing children with autism spectrum disorder and adults with Alzheimer’s Disease.” According to the Alzheimer’s Association, 2,872 North Carolinians died due to Alzheimer’s Diseases in 2013. The prevalence rate of autism spectrum disorder in North Carolina is 1 in 58 children according to a recent CDC report. Kevin and Avonte’s Law is named in honor of two boys with autism who died after their conditions caused them to wander. Nine year-old Kevin Curtis Wills, jumped into Iowa’s Raccoon River near a park and tragically drowned in 2008. Avonte Oquendo, 14, wandered away from his school and drowned in New York City’s East River in 2014. The legislation reauthorizes existing programs designed to assist in locating Alzheimer’s Disease and dementia patients, and it adds new support for people with autism. It allows Justice Department grants to be used by state and local law enforcement agencies and nonprofits for education and training programs with the goal of proactively preventing individuals with these conditions from wandering off. The legislation also provides access to resources for state and local agencies and organizations to assist in locating these individuals who become separated from their caregivers. The grants will facilitate the development of training and emergency protocols for school personnel, supply first responders with additional information and resources, and make local tracking technology programs available for individuals who may wander from safety because of their condition. Grant funding may also be used to establish or enhance notification and communications systems for the recovery of missing children with autism. ###
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) co-sponsored a Senate resolution that commemorates National Black History Month by recognizing the contributions of African Americans. The resolution, introduced by Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), passed the Senate unanimously. “From Hiram R. Revels, the first African American U.S. Senator, to Charlotte Hawkins Brown, the founder of the Palmer Memorial Institute, African Americans from North Carolina have played a pivotal role in shaping our nation’s history and culture,” said Senator Tillis. “During Black History Month, we honor the heroic civil rights leaders throughout history who challenged America to be a nation where every citizen has an equal opportunity to achieve their dreams and full potential.” “Black History Month is a time to celebrate the incredible contributions that African American leaders have made to North Carolina and the nation and to remember the struggle for civil rights,” said Senator Burr. “From the young activists who led the Greensboro sit in, to the entrepreneurs, civic leaders, members of the military, and ordinary people who pursue the American dream today – the contributions of the African American community enrich us all.” The measure acknowledges the contributions made by African Americans in education, politics, arts, sports, literature, science, and technology. The resolution states in part that “all people of the United States are the recipients of the wealth of history provided by Black culture” and that the Senate “recognizes the importance of Black History Month as an opportunity to reflect on the complex history of the United States, while remaining hopeful and confident about the path ahead.” The Senate resolution text is available here. ###
03.01.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor to voice his support for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA), bipartisan legislation he has co-sponsored that will provide a series of incentives and resources to help states and local communities combat the nation’s growing opioid epidemic. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ FULL SPEECH HERE. “Across the nation, there has been a dramatic increase in the incidence of opioid addiction, which is now at the point of being a full-blown crisis. In my home state of North Carolina, we’ve seen this devastation first-hand, with 1,358 overdose deaths in 2014 alone, fueled by the combination of the abuse of opiate-based prescription painkillers and heroin.…For far too long, the conventional thinking was that drug addiction deserved the stigma it receives: a choice made by criminals who were intent on destroying the lives of themselves and others. It was a dark and painful embarrassment for their families. It is long overdue for us to come to grips with reality. Because we now know the truth. Drug addiction doesn’t discriminate based on one’s gender, race or socio-economic status.” WATCH: “I’m proud to be a co-sponsor of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, which is bipartisan legislation that brings together the experiences and recommendations of drug addiction experts, law enforcement, health care providers, first responders, and the patient community most affected by the opioid epidemic.” WATCH: ###
02.26.2016	As we near the end of Black History Month, it calls for a moment of reflection. It is a time to recall what we have overcome as a nation, including dark periods in our long history. During the 20th century, a majority of state governments created eugenics programs to sterilize more than 60,000 Americans — many against their will, and some without their knowledge. North Carolina is regarded as having run one of the most aggressive eugenics programs, which operated from 1929 to 1974 even though most states ended their programs following World War II. In total, more than 7,600 North Carolinians were sterilized, a majority of whom were African-American. Grave mistakes were made then, and we are still working to fix those mistakes today. Former North Carolina State Rep. Larry Womble began this fight, working tirelessly to bring this travesty to light and compensate the living victims for the gross overreach by the North Carolina state government. Rep. Womble’s efforts prompted the Governor of North Carolina to formally apologize on behalf of the state in 2002, and eleven years later, North Carolina became the first state to compensate the living victims of its past eugenics program, providing a long overdue modicum of justice. To date, 220 North Carolinians have been identified as victims and have been awarded approximately $20,000 each. Additionally, if no further living victims are identified, the remaining money in the state fund would bring their total compensation to approximately $45,000 each. While these much-needed laws assist eugenics victims, an inadvertent consequence has arisen as victims begin to receive their compensation payments. Presently, the federal government counts the payments against one’s eligibility for federal benefits such as Medicaid, Supplemental Security Income, and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance. Instead of helping the victims and their families make ends meet, the payments could actually result in the denial of the federal benefits they are entitled to. To help close this unintended loophole, I recently introduced legislation in the Senate along with Senators Tom Carper (D-Del.), Richard Burr (R-NC), Mark Warner (D-Va.), and Tim Kaine (D-Va.), to exclude payments from state eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining the eligibility and amount of federal benefits. The Senate passed the bill unanimously and it is currently awaiting a vote in the House of Representatives. No amount of money or benefits will ever return what these individuals lost, but it is hopefully a start to help right the wrongs of our past. We use Black History Month to remember these wrongs, how far we have come, and how far we have to go. I am committed and confident we will continue to move toward a more equal and brighter future for all Americans.
02.26.2016	Tillis: “Vice President Biden was absolutely correct: there should be no hearings, there should be no confirmation. The most pragmatic conclusion to draw in 2016 is to hold the Supreme Court vacancy until the American people’s voices have been heard.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, took to the Senate floor yesterday to call for the American people to have a say in determining the composition of the Supreme Court. Senator Tillis expressed his agreement with the “Biden Rule,” which refers to comments made by former Senate Judiciary Chairman Joe Biden during a 1992 floor speech in which he called for no hearings or confirmation votes in the event a Supreme Court vacancy opened up during the presidential election year. “Vice President Biden’s remarks may have been voiced in 1992, but they are entirely applicable to 2016,” said Senator Tillis. “It is essential to the institution of the Senate and to the very health of our Republic to not launch our nation into a partisan, divisive confirmation battle during the very same time the American people are casting their ballots to elect our next President. Vice President Biden was absolutely correct: there should be no hearings, there should be no confirmation. The most pragmatic conclusion to draw is to hold the Supreme Court vacancy until the American people’s voices have been heard. ” WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ SPEECH HERE: WATCH FORMER SENATOR BIDEN’S SPEECH HERE: ###
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s plan to transfer some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to the United States: “So many brave men and women from North Carolina have risked their lives to capture Islamic terrorists and send them to Guantanamo Bay, where they no longer pose a threat to the world. It’s unbelievable that President Obama is now calling for transferring these dangerous terrorists to American soil. The Obama administration’s transfer of terrorists from Guantanamo to other countries has already proven to be an unmitigated disaster, resulting in terrorists returning to the battlefield to jeopardize the national security of America and our allies. I will do everything I can to help stop the President’s plan and keep Guantanamo terrorists out of America.” Last March, Senator Tillis visited the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where he was joined by fellow senators. The Senators toured the Guantanamo Bay base, observed detention operations, and met with military commanders. ###
02.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, introduced the Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2016. Co-sponsored by 13 other Senators, this bipartisan legislation ensures that the U.S. government works in a coordinated manner using its full range of tools, including diplomatic, political, financial, and intelligence capabilities, to provide early warnings about at-risk communities and states in order to help prevent mass atrocities against civilians. Joining Senators Tillis and Cardin in co-sponsoring the Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2016 are Senators Murphy (D-Conn.), Menendez (D-N.J.), Shaheen (D-N.H.), Brown (D-Ohio), Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Coons (D-Del.), Mikulski (D-Md.), Markey (D-Mass.), Merkley (D-Ore.), Boxer (D-Calif.), Casey (D-Pa.), and Warren (D-Mass.). “America has been the defender and hope for persecuted peoples across the globe. It is a trait that has defined our nation as unique in the history of the world,” said Senator Tillis. “The rise of terrorist cults like ISIL and al-Shabaab that are committing genocide against minority ethnic and religious groups has created a desperate need for American leadership and moral clarity. I’m honored to join my colleagues in a bipartisan effort to enhance our nation’s ability to detect the early warning signs of atrocities, which can ultimately help protect at-risk groups and save innocent lives.” “Over seventy years after the Holocaust, the United States still lacks a comprehensive framework to prevent and respond to mass atrocities and genocide,” said Senator Cardin. “In recent years, we have seen groups like ISIL systematically targeting communities on the basis of their ethnicity or religious beliefs and practices, including Yezidi, Christian, and Turkmen populations. In the Middle East and elsewhere, the United States must do better at identifying and quickly responding to early warning signs of possible mass atrocities. The Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act of 2016 will ensure that the U.S. has the capacity to do just that.” “With the horrors of the Holocaust in mind, the United States must continue to be a world leader in ending genocide,” said Senator Mikulski, Vice Chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “This bipartisan legislation will ensure the United States is able to use all of the tools at our disposal to more quickly and effectively detect and prevent genocide of at-risk populations. We don’t ever want history to repeat itself. We must keep working towards tolerance, peace, and justice, and always to end genocide.” “Genocide and mass atrocities are nearly impossible to predict without coordination between government agencies – information falls through the cracks and lives are lost,” said Senator Brown. “This bill would make permanent an interagency board that shares resources and intelligence to prevent the world’s next mass atrocity, and would give American diplomats the training and tools they need to recognize when instability or violence is escalating so the United States can quickly respond.” “Too often we ignore simmering conflicts until they erupt into unspeakable violence and atrocities,” said Senator Murphy. “In the recent past we’ve witnessed this tragedy play out in Bosnia, Rwanda and Darfur. Persistent conflict, lawlessness, and displaced populations create conditions for targeted violence and extremism to thrive. Preventing these crises is a moral imperative, and it will protect our national security and the stability of our allies. I support this bipartisan legislation because it will expand the tools we have to identify warning signs, diffuse tensions, and work broadly with local and international partners to address root causes of violence. “The Atrocity Prevention Board is a critical tool to prevent conflicts from escalating into international disasters that threaten security and human rights across the globe,” said Senator Coons. “This legislation will provide the US with the capability and resources to identify conflicts early so we can respond immediately and effectively before mass atrocities and genocide occurs. Focusing on prevention now can yield long term results in the protection of human rights in the years to come.” “With rising instability and conflict threatening vulnerable populations around the world, we need to do more to prevent genocide,” said Senator Shaheen. “The measures in this bill will better equip our government to detect early warning signs and act before mass atrocities occur. As Americans, we take pride in our global leadership. We can and should protect the most vulnerable”. This legislation strengthens atrocity prevention efforts by: Authorizing the establishment of a transparent, accountable, high-level Atrocity Prevention Board to advance an interagency effort to prevent mass atrocities and ensure a coordinated and effective response to emerging and ongoing atrocities; Authorizing the Complex Crises Fund, overseen by the Administrator of USAID, to support emergency efforts to prevent or respond to emerging or unforeseen foreign complex crises overseas, including potential mass atrocities and conflict; Mandates training for Department of State and USAID Foreign Service Officers at high risk posts to recognize patterns of escalation and early warning signs of potential atrocities or violence and; Encourages the Director of National Intelligence to include in his/her annual testimony to Congress on threats to US national security a review of countries or regions at risk of mass atrocities or genocide Full text of the Genocide and Atrocities Prevention Act can be found here. This Resolution is actively supported by 26 atrocity prevention and human rights groups. The list can be found here. ###
02.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia: “Today, our nation lost Antonin Scalia, a great American and devoted public servant who fiercely defended the Constitution during his three decades on the Supreme Court. Regardless of one’s political or judicial views, there is no doubt that Justice Scalia will be remembered as one of the most thoughtful and consequential Supreme Court justices in contemporary American history. My thoughts and prayers are with Justice Scalia’s family during this time.” ###
02.14.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the current vacancy on the U.S. Supreme Court: “We are in midst of a great debate about the future of our country, including the future make-up of the highest court in the land, which makes decisions that affect the lives of all Americans. Unfortunately, the uninhibited expansion of President Obama’s administrative state and his penchant for executive orders that contort the rule of law suggest an utter contempt for our nation’s system of checks and balances. “It is highly likely that the President will nominate someone who shares his views and will rubber-stamp his unilateral actions, which run counter to the original intent of our Constitution. This is why it is incumbent upon the Senate to assert its co-equal authority in the constitutionally prescribed process of determining the make-up of the highest court. I firmly believe the voice of the American people should be heavily weighted in that decision and their voice will soon be heard on Election Day. Given the current circumstances, the process of filling the Supreme Court vacancy would be best left to the next President.” ###
02.10.2016	During today’s Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on “Breaking the Cycle: Mental Health and the Justice System,” committee members heard testimony from criminal justice experts, including David Guice, the Commissioner of North Carolina Department of Public Safety’s Division of Adult Correction and Juvenile Justice. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Commissioner Guice both discussed the success of North Carolina’s Justice Reinvestment Act, which passed the North Carolina General Assembly and became law during Tillis’ tenure as Speaker of the House. Tillis also stressed the importance of setting aside partisan differences to focus on addressing the mental health needs of Americans who come in contact with the justice system. Bipartisan legislation like the Justice Reinvestment Act has reduced recidivism, increased public safety, and lowered corrections costs through the implementation of effective, data-driven reforms. The money saved can now be utilized to reinvest in the state’s justice system. The federal government has an opportunity to emulate the successful reforms of states like North Carolina that free up valuable resources that can then be reinvested in proven mental health initiatives that protect vulnerable populations. “I’m not here to throw partisan elbows today. We’ve got a serious problem and we need to fix it,” said Senator Tillis. “We need to get out of this discussion that it’s just about more money, because it’s not just about money. It’s about fundamentally changing the way we address this problem and freeing up money that is being spent for the wrong purposes. We did that in North Carolina with the Justice Reinvestment Act.” ###
02.10.2016	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) welcomed Vice President Joe Biden’s visit to the Duke Cancer Institute in Durham, North Carolina, with the following statement: “It doesn’t matter who you are, what you do, or where you come from. Every single American has been affected by cancer and the heartbreak and adversity that comes with it. The need to rid the world of this terrible disease isn’t just a national goal—it’s an intimately personal mission for each and every one of us. Vice President Biden’s visit to Duke University today validates North Carolina’s position as a global leader in the fight against cancer, home to innovative research institutions and some of the most pioneering scientists and researchers in the world. North Carolina has served as a model for the nation with successful public-private partnerships and investments that have brought government, industry and academia together to relentlessly pursue the treatment and ultimate eradication of deadly diseases. The future has never looked more promising, and we have every reason to believe that the cure to cancer could very well be discovered here in North Carolina.”
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement announcing he will vote in favor of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act, which would expand and tighten enforcement of sanctions for North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile program and combat North Korean cyber criminal activities: “North Korea is out of control, completing a ballistic missile launch and several successful nuclear tests, firing a rocket over Japan, and sentencing numerous Americans to prison in hard labor camps,” said Senator Tillis. “The Obama Administration has underestimated the brutality and belligerence of this tyrannical regime, and Congress is now taking necessary action by imposing heavy sanctions that will help halt the regime’s acquisition of weapons and punish North Korean cyber criminals.” ###
02.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) issued the following statements in response to a letter from leaders of the Air Force and Army certifying the deactivation of the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield: “I am surprised and deeply disappointed with the Army's decision to acquiesce to the Air Force's strategy for how they will complete training at Fort Bragg,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “Now the burden is on the Fort Bragg commanders to demonstrate to Congress and the Fayetteville community that they have not jeopardized the needs of the Global Response Force to placate the reckless desires of budget cutters in the Pentagon. In my discussions with the former commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps and soldiers and airmen at Fort Bragg, they say it makes no sense, will negatively affect their flexibility, and will likely threaten their ability to provide the training needed to complete their mission. The fact that I received this update not from the Air Force, but from third parties, further undermines my confidence in this decision and galvanizes my commitment to holding the parties accountable. For as long as I am a U.S. Senator, the Air Force can fully expect me to require that they demonstrate, on a monthly basis, how they are meeting their obligation to provide assets at Pope Airfield and fulfilling the training requirements of our brave men and women.” “This is the latest in a series of decisions that could very well prevent our armed forces from being as prepared as they should be,” said Senator Richard Burr. “The 82nd Airborne is our global response force, often deployed to hot spots like Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. The Special Operations units that call Fort Bragg home require dedicated air support to properly train for the missions that America and our allies calls on them to perform. I’m concerned that this is going to negatively impact national security and decrease the readiness of combat units at Fort Bragg that are essential in the current fight against terrorism. We are depriving them of an important asset that they have relied on for decades and now is not the time to remove important resources from our troops.” ###
02.04.2016	Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced a resolution recognizing the heroic acts of the Montagnards, an indigenous tribespeople of Vietnam, and calling on the government of Vietnam to respect their human rights. The Montagnards fought shoulder to shoulder with the United States military during the Vietnam War and made many sacrifices alongside our troops. "I am honored to put forward this resolution to thank the Montagnards who joined with us in Vietnam and saved thousands of lives with their heroic actions," said Senator Burr. "North Carolina is home to many Montagnards and their contributions to the state are immeasurable. Their place American and Vietnamese history deserves recognition. I hope my colleagues will swiftly pass this resolution." “Today and every day, it is important to honor the Montagnards, who bravely fought alongside American forces in Vietnam,” said Senator Tillis. “Many Montagnards now call North Carolina home, and they make our local communities better places to live. It is critical that we do not forget about those who were not able to escape the confines of communism, as they continue to face persecution and harassment from the Vietnamese government.” Senator Burr also submitted comments for the Congressional record this week. More than 60,000 Montagnards assisted U.S. troops as interpreters, scouts, and soldiers during the war. After the Vietnam War, the U.S. resettled thousands of Montagnards as refugees to escape persecution from the Vietnamese government. Currently, the largest population of Montagnards outside of Vietnam resides in North Carolina, but the group also resettled in other states, including in California, Florida, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Washington. This resolution also condemns the Government of Vietnam for its ongoing and reported violations of the Montagnards' basic human rights, including the freedom of Christians to practice their faith without fear of persecution. You can read the text of this resolution here.
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined seven senators today calling for a pause in the Syrian and Iraqi refugee programs until authorities are able to detect the use of fake passports following reports ISIS has a “fake document industry” with passport machines and blank passports. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson, the senators called for new measures to ensure false documents can be detected during the screening process before any more Syrian or Iraqi refugees are admitted to the United States. The letter was also signed by Senators Mark Kirk (R-IL), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), John Barrasso (R-WY), Roger Wicker (R-MS), James Inhofe (R-OK), Mike Enzi (R-WY), and Steve Daines (R-MT). “The threat to the United States posed by ISIS-created Syrian passports is now imminent,” the senators wrote. “That danger will continue to grow so long as our enemies are able to perfect these passports and exploit loopholes in refugee programs. ISIS is an enemy that constantly adapts around our security posture, and there is no room for error when it comes to protecting our citizens from their brutal terror campaign.” It has been reported by Homeland Security Intelligence Reports that ISIS has access to “boxes of blank passports,” and just last week ABC News reported that the terrorist group has created an entire “industry” producing fake passports. Senator Kirk has repeatedly called for a pause in the Syrian and Iraqi refugee programs until the Administration can be certain terrorists are not abusing the program and sneaking into the United States with fake documentation. The text of the letter can be seen here and is below. February 3, 2016 Dear Secretaries Kerry and Johnson: On January 25, 2016, French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve publicly warned of the growing terrorism threat posed by ISIS’s “fake document industry.” As ABC News revealed in December 2015, the Department of Homeland Security’s investigative arm, known as Homeland Security Investigations (HSI), concluded that ISIS terrorists acquired passport-printing capabilities and “boxes of blank passports,” and also warned: “Since more than 17 months [have] passed since Raqqa and Deir ez-Zour fell to ISIS, it is possible that individuals from Syria with passports ‘issued’ in these ISIS controlled cities or who had passport blanks, may have traveled to the U.S.” The danger of ISIS terrorists using fake or stolen passports to infiltrate Syrian refugee flows and attack the United States became very real amid revelations that two of the nine ISIS terrorists involved in the November 13th attacks in Paris used fraudulent passports to pose as refugees entering the European Union. The threat to the United States posed by ISIS-created Syrian passports is now imminent. That danger will continue to grow so long as our enemies are able to perfect these passports and exploit loopholes in refugee programs. ISIS is an enemy that constantly adapts around our security posture, and there is no room for error when it comes to protecting our citizens from their brutal terror campaign. I therefore urge you to suspend the Syrian refugee program until America’s intelligence and law enforcement agencies acquire the capabilities to identify all fake Syrian passports and certify that any potential refugee with a Syrian passport poses no threat to national security. The security and integrity of America’s refugee program is critical to maintaining the safety of our citizens here at home. The United States should pause plans to accept tens-to-hundreds of thousands of Syrian refugees until the Administration implements a credible plan to detect and identify all fake Syrian passports and to prevent ISIS terrorist infiltration. Anything less represents an unacceptable risk to the safety of our country. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Mark KirkU.S. Senator Thom TillisU.S. Senator Bill CassidyU.S. Senator John BarrassoU.S. Senator Roger WickerU.S. Senator James Inhofe U.S. Senator Mike Enzi U.S. Senator Steve Daines ###
02.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Cory Gardner (R-CO) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) have accepted Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr’s (R-NC) challenge to put their NFL team pride on the line by wagering the delivery of a Senate floor speech on the outcome of Super Bowl 50 between the Carolina Panthers and the Denver Broncos. The wager requires the freshman Senator representing the losing team to deliver a speech on the Senate floor congratulating the Super Bowl champion that meets the following conditions: The losing freshman Senator must give specific shout outs to the Super Bowl champion’s head coach, quarterback, fan base, and detail the greatness of the Super Bowl champion’s home state. The losing Senators must wear a tie of the team color of the Super Bowl champion during the speech. The winning freshman Senator must be presiding over the Senate as the losing freshman Senator delivers his speech. For an added dose of humility, the written remarks must be reviewed and approved in advance by the winning Senators. Last week, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) fulfilled a NFC Championship Game wager he made with Senator Tillis by speaking on the Senate floor to humbly congratulate the Panthers and wish them luck in the Super Bowl. “This Sunday night, Panthers fans across the Carolinas and the rest of the nation will be rejoicing after the team wins its first Super Bowl,” said Senators Tillis and Burr. “We look forward to seeing our freshman colleague from Colorado take to the Senate floor as he acknowledges the passing of the mantle from Peyton Manning to Cam Newton as the NFL’s newest legend, praises the unwavering devotion of the Panthers fan base, and recognizes that the Panthers are truly one of the greatest teams in NFL history. We can only hope that Senator Gardner will conclude his speech by gifting Panthers fans with his best rendition of Neil Diamond’s ‘Sweet Caroline.’” “When Senators Tillis and Burr proposed this friendly Super Bowl wager, we didn’t have to think twice about accepting their challenge,” said Senators Gardner and Bennet. “We have 100% confidence in the Broncos and Peyton Manning. The legendary John Elway and Head Coach Gary Kubiak put together a championship caliber team, and we know their hard work and year-long preparation will pay off on Sunday. We are certain the best defense in the league will bring the Panthers offense to a halt, and the Broncos will return to Colorado with the Lombardi Trophy. On behalf of the state of Colorado and Broncos fans everywhere, we look forward to hearing the junior Senator from North Carolina, Senator Tillis, deliver a humbling speech on the Senate floor where he will congratulate the Denver Broncos on their hard fought victory, Peyton Manning’s second Super Bowl title, and the entire Broncos organization on their third Super Bowl victory.” ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) met with U.S. Census Bureau director John Thompson and made the case that all North Carolina soldiers and Marines should be counted in the decennial census as residents of the state, regardless of whether or not they are deployed abroad. Last year, Senator Tillis raised the alarm that the Census Bureau does not count soldiers and Marines who are stationed in North Carolina but deployed overseas as North Carolina residents. For example, the Census Bureau counts North Carolina Marines deployed at sea as residents of the homeport of the ship on which they were serving, even though their home and family are in North Carolina. Undercounting troops cost North Carolina, the ninth largest state in the nation, a new congressional seat following the 2010 census, as well as future tax dollars that are proportional to population. “North Carolina is blessed to have Fort Bragg, the largest military installation in the free world, and Camp Lejeune, the largest base in the Marine Corps. Their troops and their families call North Carolina home,” said Senator Tillis. “They live here in North Carolina, they vote here, they pay taxes here, and their children go to school here. By not counting them in the census, we are denying them access to federal and state services based on our population. It’s long past due for this unfair and obsolete practice to be changed.” ###
01.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) has joined a bipartisan group of Senators to designate the week of January 24-30, 2016 as “National School Choice Week” and recognize that a diversity of choices in K-12 education helps meet the individual needs and strengths of children. “Access to a quality education unfortunately remains one of the biggest roadblocks to ensuring that every child in the nation has a shot at realizing their American Dream,” said Senator Tillis. “School choice is helping to break that barrier by allowing families across the nation to make decisions that work best for their children. I’m proud to support choice initiatives such as North Carolina’s opportunity scholarship program, and I will continue to advocate for bold and innovative solutions that help students receive the best education possible.” ###
01.28.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, applauded the Committee’s passage of the Defend Trade Secrets Act, of which he is an original cosponsor. Trade secrets and other forms of intellectual property can be easily stolen, often at the direction of a foreign government or for the benefit of a foreign competitor. A recent report from The U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission concluded that China is dependent upon trade secret theft for innovation. Intellectual property theft endangers American jobs and threatens incentives for continued American investment in research and development. The Defend Trade Secrets Act addresses current inadequacies in U.S. law by creating a uniform standard for trade secret misappropriation. It also would provide for injunctions and damages, to preserve evidence, prevent disclosure, and account for the economic harm to American companies whose trade secrets are stolen. “I am pleased the Senate Judiciary Committee took a stand to help protect American intellectual property from thieves and other bad actors who impose severe economic harm on our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “North Carolina is particularly blessed to be home to some the world’s top innovators and developers of intellectual property, and I look forward to helping them continue their vast economic contributions to our state by working with my Senate colleagues to pass this legislation and make it law.” ###
01.23.2016	CHARLOTTE, NC – Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and John McCain (R-AZ) have wagered the delivery of a humbling Senate floor speech on the outcome of tomorrow’s NFC Championship Game between the Carolina Panthers and the Arizona Cardinals. The wager requires the Senator representing the losing team to deliver a speech on the Senate floor congratulating the NFC champion and wishing them a victory in the Super Bowl. Those words of humility will be forever memorialized in the Senate record. The wager also requires the Senator representing the losing team to wear a tie of the NFC Champion’s team colors during his speech. “Although I appreciate the support the Cardinals offense provided in helping me win my fantasy football league this year, their luck is going to end against the best defense in the league in front of more than 74,000 rabid Panthers fans,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I’m looking forward to serving as the presiding officer of the Senate as Senator McCain delivers his speech detailing the Panthers’ historic season, the amazing play of their MVP quarterback, and the incredible leadership of the NFL’s coach of the year.” “Cardinals wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald wrote recently that the Cardinals ‘broke the mold of what kind of football people expect to be played in the desert’ and I have no doubt they will continue to exceed expectations this Sunday against the Panthers,” said Senator John McCain. “I confidently look forward to Senator Tillis opining on the greatness of the Arizona Cardinals next week on the floor of the U.S. Senate.” ###
01.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked a vote to override President Obama’s veto of legislation disapproving of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which would enforce crippling regulations on local communities and small businesses across the nation: “The Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule is the latest federal government land grab that will expand the scope of federal authority over land and water at the expense of farmers, ranchers, landowners and business owners across the country. Under this rule, virtually every nook and cranny of the country will be subject to EPA control, and I am disappointed with this Administration’s never-ending attempts to add layer upon layer of bureaucratic red tape for hard-working Americans to deal with.” Senator Tillis previously spoke on the Senator floor about the WOTUS rule. Watch here:
01.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement announcing he will vote in favor of the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act, which would implement key security provisions to help ensure that refugees from Syria and Iraq do not pose security threats to the United States: “Protecting the American people and securing the homeland is the federal government’s number one responsibility, and the reality is that it would only take one error in the refugee screening process to produce a catastrophic result for our nation. We already know that ISIS terrorists are actively posing as refugees to infiltrate western nations, and we must adjust our policies accordingly to directly address this threat. The legislation I support will do just that by strengthening the screening process for certain refugees and requiring certification from the appropriate federal agencies and departments. It’s important to remember that the refugee crisis in Syria and Iraq has been worsened by President Obama’s failure to execute a winning strategy against ISIS. Rather than issue veto threats for this commonsense legislation, the President should be working with our allies to create safe zones for refugees inside Syria and pursuing a role for NATO to provide them with security.” ###
01.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement to commemorate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Today we honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., whose unwavering pursuit in defense of the freedoms and liberties of all our citizens made America a greater and more prosperous nation.” ###
01.13.2016	“The American people are sick and tired of the gridlock in Washington. The President has a choice to make. He can finally engage with Congress and work to find common ground, or he can continue to side-step Congress and the American people by implementing executive actions that divide rather than unite. I hope the President will choose the path of collaboration and bipartisanship. Regardless, I’ll continue to work hard on behalf of all North Carolinians, and I’ll work across the aisle to produce results for our great state and nation.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following video statement after President Obama delivered his State of the Union address to the nation: “Good evening, I’m Thom Tillis, Senator from the great state of North Carolina. “Tonight we heard President Obama deliver his final State of the Union address. Regardless of your views on the President’s politics or his policies, it’s a special occasion for the American people to hear from their President and participate in a healthy debate about the future of our nation. “With that said, even some of the President Obama’s own supporters will acknowledge the disappointment created as a result of the many broken promises and mistakes made by this administration. “Our economy has failed to fully rebound following the global recession of 2008. Inadequate job creation, weak economic growth, and fewer opportunities for younger generations of Americans have become the new “normal” for our country. “Simply put, we’re not where we need to be. “The President has seemingly forgotten that we’re a nation blessed with the hardest-working people, the most innovative minds, and the greatest abundance of resources the world has ever known. “We can’t allow mediocrity to become the new normal. We must do better. “And that’s why I’m committed to working with my colleagues–both Democrat and Republican—on commonsense solutions to reduce burdensome regulations, reform our broken tax code, and produce opportunities for hardworking families. “During his speech tonight, we heard the President once again call on Congress to approve his resolution authorizing the use of military force against ISIS. But the problem is that the authority the President is requesting would actually be counterproductive to our goal to destroy ISIS. “That’s because it would codify, into law, limitations that would force the United States to fight against ruthless Islamic terrorists with one hand tied behind our back. Instead of telegraphing to the world what actions he won’t take, the President needs to formulate a clear and decisive strategy to completely defeat ISIS and secure our homeland. “While President Obama and I may not see eye to eye on many issues, we both agree Washington needs to be doing far more for the brave men and women who have served our nation. “Over the past year, I’ve worked across the aisle with the Secretary of the VA and my colleagues on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee to improve care for our veterans, with a particular focus on expanding access to mental health care services and reforming the bloated VA bureaucracy. “I was happy when President Obama recently endorsed two pieces of legislation I introduced to increase educational opportunities for veterans, and I’ll work hard this year to send them to his desk so he can sign them into law. “The reality is, the American people are sick and tired of the gridlock in Washington. “The President has a choice to make. He can finally engage with Congress and work to find common ground, or he can continue to side-step Congress and the American people by implementing executive actions that divide rather than unite. “I hope the President will choose the path of collaboration and bipartisanship. “Regardless, I’ll continue to work hard on behalf of all North Carolinians, and I’ll work across the aisle to produce results for our great state and nation. “Thank you for your time. May God bless the United States of America.” ###
01.09.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in honor of National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day: “Communities all across North Carolina are blessed to be protected by dedicated law enforcement officials who are willing to risk their lives to keep our streets safe. I am proud of our brave law enforcement officials, and I will continue to do everything I can as a U.S. Senator to ensure they have the support, encouragement, and resources they need to stay safe while protecting and serving all North Carolinians.” Senator Tillis supports The Thin Blue Line Act, which amends the federal criminal code to make the killing or attempted killing of a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or other first responder an aggravating factor in death penalty determinations. One of the first bills Senator Tillis co-sponsored was The Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, which establishes a national Blue Alert communications network within the Department of Justice to issue alerts when a law enforcement officer is killed, injured, goes missing in the line of duty, or when there is an imminent and credible threat to an officer. The legislation passed Congress and was signed into law by the President last May. ###
01.08.2016	FORT BRAGG – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Joni Ernst (R-IA) concluded a Congressional Delegation visit to Fort Bragg in North Carolina, the largest military installation in the United States that is home to 52,000 active duty men and women and 100,000 of their family members. Senators Tillis and Ernst, both members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, met with many key military commanders at Ft. Bragg, including General Robert B. Abrams, the Commander of the United States Army Forces Command (FORSCOM), and General Stephen J. Townsend, the Commander of the XVIII Airborne Corps. On Tuesday, the Senators started their day by sharing breakfast with Army soldiers from their home states, with Senator Tillis dining with soldiers from North Carolina, and Senator Ernst dining with soldiers from Iowa. The Senators then toured the United States Army Special Operations Command (USASOC), which is often among the first commands to deploy soldiers to combat zones, particularly since the beginning of the Global War on Terror. The Senators also went on an extensive tour of the Joint Special Operations Medical Training Center (JSOMTC), which plays a vital role in ensuring that Special Operations Forces are self-reliant with well-trained combat medics, often making the difference between life and death in combat. On Wednesday, the Senators toured the Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), where they received classified battle update briefings, and enjoyed lunch with JSOC soldiers. Senator Tillis also toured the Engagement Skills Trainer (EST) Facility, which provides state of the art computer-generated arms training for soldiers. Senator Ernst also met with infantrymen and cavalry scouts from the 82nd Airborne Division, recently returned from Iraq, to discuss their thoughts on the way forward with gender integration of combat arms positions. In addition to the busy itinerary of the CODEL at Fort Bragg, Senator Tillis joined Senators Richard Burr and Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson (R-GA) for the official opening of the new Fayetteville VA Health Care Center on Monday. On Tuesday night, Senators Tillis and Ernst were special guests at a dinner hosted by the Veterans Leadership Council-Cares of North Carolina (VLCNC) at the Airborne and Special Operations Museum, during which Senator Ernst delivered the keynote address. The VLCNC is a non-profit organization that seeks to provide temporary housing for at-risk veterans, and help assist veterans with access to health and wellness services. “Fort Bragg is the home to the Global Response Force, and is paramount to maintaining America’s position as the strongest and most capable military the world has ever seen,” said Senator Tillis. “I was honored to welcome Senator Ernst to Fort Bragg to visit with the commanders and brave active duty members serving at our nation’s largest military base, they truly represent the very best of the best.” “It was an honor to visit with our men and women in uniform at Fort Bragg, to learn more about their mission, capabilities, and how we can help improve their ability to protect our nation and defeat our adversaries,” said Senator Ernst. “The Fayetteville community is vital to our national defense, and I remain committed to ensuring our servicemembers and their families are well taken care of as they face the unique challenges of military life.” ###
01.07.2016	Today, the House followed the Senate by passing The Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which would repeal ObamaCare and cut the federal deficit by half a trillion dollars over the next decade according to the Congressional Budget Office. The bill now heads to President Obama’s desk. “Last year, I promised the people of North Carolina that if I were elected, I would work toward repealing and replacing ObamaCare, and the passage of this bill is fulfilling that promise,” said Senator Tillis. “ObamaCare has proven to be a disaster for far too many hardworking Americans, and our nation is in desperate need of healthcare reform that will actually help control costs and allow families to start making their own healthcare decisions that work best for them.” Last month, Senator Tillis spoke on the Senate floor calling for the repeal of ObamaCare. Watch the speech here.
01.04.2016	WASHINGTON – Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) today recapped the significant gains for veterans, military bases and the military organizations that call North Carolina home. Senators Burr and Tillis worked over the year to secure critical military upgrades that will ensure that America and the state remain prepared amid growing terrorist threats, as well as important legislation for veterans who have suffered from exposure to toxic chemicals at both Camp Lejeune and aboard C-123s in Vietnam. Additionally, all North Carolina military installations are scheduled to receive significant infrastructure upgrades as a result of legislation passed in 2015. "2015 represented a number of legislative gains for both military installations and organizations in North Carolina, as well as national gains for veterans and active duty personnel," said Senator Burr. "Senator Tillis and I worked together to maintain North Carolina's status as a premier military hub by successfully securing additional capabilities at Seymour Johnson Air Base (NC) as well as the preservation of the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg (NC). It's critical for both North Carolina and the country to continue to support our Special Operations Forces, given the current terrorist threats to both the homeland and our allies overseas. Additionally, I continued to fight for justice on issues such as those affected by the contaminated water at Camp Lejeune (NC) and those vets across the country who were finally granted disability status from illnesses caused by Agent Orange exposure in C-123s planes over Vietnam and afterwards. The Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015 was signed into law this year and closed a loophole that predators have used to evade law enforcement detection for years. 2015 was a productive year for our efforts to make a difference in NC and nationally and I'm proud of our accomplishments." “Senator Burr and I worked hard this past year to preserve and strengthen North Carolina’s rich military tradition and advocate on behalf of the more than 800,000 North Carolinians who have honorably served our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “We fought against the Pentagon’s strategically flawed attempt to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield, and I was proud to join Jerry Ensminger, Senator Burr, and the Camp Lejeune Community Assistance Panel in the successful effort to pressure the VA to provide a level of justice for the victims of toxic water contamination at Camp Lejeune. While 2015 resulted in several key victories for our state’s military and veteran communities, there is still more to be done, and I look forward to continue working with Senator Burr and the rest of the North Carolina Congressional delegation to deliver more results for our great state.” Accomplishments Camp Lejeune (NC): In 2015, after sustained Congressional pressure from both Tillis and Burr, the Department of Veterans Affairs announced that victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water who are diagnosed with one or more of eight illnesses will be granted disability status. Description: The Department of Veterans Affairs initially refused to acknowledge that exposure to toxic chemicals in Camp Lejeune’s water from 1953-1987 caused a number of serious illnesses that in some cases led to death. In 2012, the President signed Senator Burr’s bill to require veterans and their families’ access to VA healthcare if they were stationed at the base and fell ill as a result. In 2015, the VA has expanded presumption to include disability compensation for eight conditions. The reversal demonstrates a major policy shift and a significant victory for victims of toxic exposure for decades at Camp Lejeune. 440th Airlift Wing: Senators Burr and Tillis have engaged the various military services to ensure North Carolina’s military readiness by maintaining the 440th Airlift Wing. The Senators introduced and passed an amendment requiring the Air Force to validate its plan to close the 440th Airlift Wing with the Army. Description: The legislation postponed Air Force action to September 30th, 2016 and permits the Air Force to continue only after it validates its plan with the supported commanders. Air Force is implementing a plan to consolidate its C-130 fleet and reduce its overall number of C-130H. Under the current plan, the Air Force wants to deactivate the 440th Airlift Wing, a reserve airlift unit comprised of approximately 1300 personnel stationed at Pope Army Airfield. The Air Force contends it can support Fort Bragg from remote airbases; Army commanders contend it is logistically unfeasible and the 440th fulfills the most pressing training requirements of the global reaction force. Seymour Johnson Air Force Base KC-46A Tanker: Seymour Johnson was recently selected as the preferred alternative for the basing of the KC-46A tanker fleet over three other states. Seymour Johnson is currently undergoing an environmental study prior to the decision being final. Description: Sens. Burr, Tillis and other members of Congress have advocated for Seymour Johnson as an ideal location for this new tanker fleet, which will be the first on the East Coast and an important element of military readiness. This preliminary study is an indicator that the Air Force is serious about basing the tanker fleet at Seymour Johnson. Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015: Signed into law in June of 2015. Description: The Military Sex Offender Reporting Act of 2015 (MSORA), introduced by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Defense to directly report sex offenders convicted or punished under article 47 of the Uniform Military Code of Justice (UCMJ) to the National Sex Offender Registry (NSOR) administered by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website. Previously, sex offenders convicted under UCMJ were required to self-report to a local jurisdiction upon their release. A Department of Defense Inspector General report issued in 2014 revealed an estimated 242 of 1,312 released sex offenders failed to self-report under the previous law. Given the significant DOD communities in 2015, under these new laws, communities can be fully aware of former offenders in their neighborhood. C-123 Toxic Exposure to Agent Orange: Department of Veteran Affairs extended presumptive condition status for Agent Orange exposure to veterans serving on C123K aircraft after Vietnam. Description: The VA’s reversal of position came after four years of Congressional pressure and multiple medical studies. The latest Institute of Medicine’s report on Post-Vietnam Dioxin Exposure in Agent Orange-Contaminated C-123 Aircraft left the VA with little choice but to begin approving claims after sustained pressure from Congress. Senator Burr first began pressing for answers in 2011. The Omnibus Bill passed by the House and Senate includes a number of important military construction projects for North Carolina. Navy Procurement 6 additional F-35B for Marine Corps aviation. Air Force Procurement KC-46A – Tankers to be stationed at Seymour Johnson. C-130H Modernization – Air National Guard. Improvements to include 145th Airlift Wing in Charlotte, NC Engine Modifications - $33,200,000 8 Blade Propellers - $10,000,000 In flight prop balancing - $1,500,000 Electronic Propeller Control System - $13,500,000 Avionics upgrades - $70,000,000 Army National Guard Apache Helicopters – Sec. 8120 prohibits any funds from being used to transfer more than the previously agreed upon 48 Apache helicopters from the National Guard to the active Army prior to June 30, 2016. Military Construction North Carolina will receive $412 million in specified Military Construction. Approved projects include: Camp Lejeune: 2nd Radio Battalion Complex Operations Consolidation, Simulator Integration/Range Control Facility, Special Operations Combat Service Support Facility, Special Operations Marine Battalion Company/Team Facilities Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station: KC 130J Enlisted Air Crew Trainer Facility, Unmanned Aircraft System Facilities New River: Operational Trainer Facility, Radar Air Traffic Control Facility Addition Seymour Johnson AFB: Air Traffic Control Tower/Base Ops Facility Fort Bragg: Butner Elementary School Replacement, SOF 21 STS Operations Facility, Special Operations Battalion Operations Facility, Special Operations Indoor Range, Special Operations Intelligence Training Center, Special Operations Special Tactics Facility Charlotte/Douglas IAP: Replace C-130 Squadron Operations Facility ###
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis voted in support of the omnibus appropriations bill, which, in addition to keeping the federal government running, also boosts defense discretionary funding, provides much-needed pay raises for military personnel, increases funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs by more than 10 percent, cuts $600 billion in taxes for hardworking Americans and small business owners, delays ObamaCare’s tax on high quality health insurance and medical device tax for two years, and lifts the 40-year oil export ban. The omnibus appropriations bill also includes several provisions that were originally introduced or supported by Senator Tillis, including: The halting of the Army’s plan to transfer 24 AH-64 Apache helicopters from the North Carolina National Guard in Raleigh to the regular Army. Earlier this year, Senator Tillis urged Senate appropriators to stop the movement of the Apache helicopters based in Raleigh. The successful inclusion of this provision will help save 400 North Carolina jobs, and most importantly, it stops a plan that would have undermined the combat prowess of the Army Guard, America’s first line of defense. The inclusion of the Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act of 2015, which was originally introduced as a standalone bill by Senators Tillis and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) earlier this year. This bipartisan initiative will require the VA Secretary to develop and publish an action plan for improving the training and rehabilitation provided by the VA for veterans with service-connected disabilities. Funding for the construction of an air traffic control tower at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Last month, the U.S. Air Force announced a preliminary decision to establish a new KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron at Goldsboro’s Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. The control tower will provide the needed safety for the squadron of tankers, which are expected at Seymour Johnson by 2019. The partial repeal of mandatory Country Of Origin Labeling (COOL), a mandate that led the World Trade Organization to recently grant Canada and Mexico the authority to seek $1 billion in retaliatory tariffs against the United States, which would have a damaging impact on North Carolina farmers and a wide range of economic industries across the nation. Key reforms to the H-2B visa program, assisting North Carolina small business owners who depend on the program. This past year, small business owners across the country experienced revenue loss and threats of shutting their doors because they were not able to hire enough works to meet demands. To address this problem, earlier this year, Senators Tillis and Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) proposed several reforms to the H-2B temporary worker program to eliminate ambiguities and establish clear parameters for employers hiring H-2B workers, require increased coordination between federal agencies, and bring transparency to the program operations for greater efficiency while ensuring American workers are not displaced. “While this legislation spends too much and is far from perfect, I ultimately supported it because it was a bipartisan reaffirmation of our nation’s commitment to bolstering America’s national defense and supporting our brave servicemembers and veterans,” said Senator Tillis. “This appropriations bill is especially beneficial to North Carolina’s military community, as it stops the planned removal of Apache Helicopters from the North Carolina National Guard in Raleigh and improves safety by constructing an air traffic control tower at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.” ###
12.17.2015	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) made the following statements on today’s U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs announcement that victims of Camp Lejeune’s poisoned water who are diagnosed with one of eight illnesses will be granted disability status: “The VA is finally granting some justice to veterans who were exposed to contaminated drinking water while assigned to Camp Lejeune,” said Sen. Tillis. “The victims of this tragedy have waited far too long to receive disability benefits, and I thank Jerry Ensminger, Senator Burr, and the entire Camp Lejeune Community Assistance Panel for their tireless efforts in advocating on behalf of the victims and keeping pressure on the VA to do the right thing.” “The VA has conceded that it will no longer deny disability benefits to Camp Lejeune victims based on ridiculous scientific claims,” said Sen. Burr. “This is victory for those who have long suffered as a result of the toxic exposure to chemicals while serving our country at Camp Lejeune. In 2012, the President signed my legislation into law that provided health care to veterans and their families who were poisoned at Camp Lejeune and I will continue to advocate for them. I thank Jerry Ensminger for his unending support of Lejeune victims. God bless all of these men and women.” The eight illnesses are as follows: Kidney Cancer Liver Cancer Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Leukemia Multiple Myeloma Scleroderma Parkinson's Disease Aplastic Anemia / Myelodysplastic Syndromes In July 2015, after years of Congressional pressure, Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced that the VA would begin the process to grant presumptive disability status to veterans at Camp Lejeune who have certain cancers and conditions known to be associated with long term exposure to the chemicals that contaminated the base water system from 1953-1987. In September 2015, both Senator Burr and Senator Tillis pressed the VA at a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing on Camp Lejeune for answers about granting Lejeune veterans disability status. Bureaucratic red tape and internal resistance at the VA delayed a final decision for years. In August of 2012, President Obama signed the Honoring America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 bill into law. This legislation, introduced by Senator Burr, requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide health care to veterans and their family members who have certain diseases and conditions as a result of exposure to well-water contaminated by human carcinogens at Camp Lejeune in North Carolina.
12.14.2015	Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s press conference at the Pentagon: “President Obama decided to hold his second photo-op in two weeks, where he offered nothing more than empty platitudes and tough talk on ISIS, and once again failed to outline a comprehensive strategy to defeat radical Islamic terrorism. The only new thing we heard during the press conference is that the Secretary of Defense will be soon leaving to visit with troops in the Middle East. “Today we also learned that the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, out of fear of ‘bad public relations,’ secretly ordered his department agents not to investigate the social media accounts of foreigners applying for U.S. visas, blocking a simple screening process that could have helped prevent one of the jihadists who perpetrated the terrorist attack on San Bernardino from entering America in the first place. “The American people are on edge, and the Administration’s failure to provide the nation and the rest of the free world with the strong and steady leadership it so desperately needs is becoming glaringly apparent.”
12.10.2015	Today, the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee approved a “megabus” bill (S.425) that includes three bipartisan bills introduced by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) aimed at improving educational opportunities for veterans and their families. On Veterans Day, two of these bills were endorsed by President Obama, who urged Congress to quickly pass them and send them to his desk. “The Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee continues to demonstrate that bipartisan problem solving is still possible in Washington, with members coming together to improve the lives of veterans and their families,” said Senator Tillis. “It is an honor to work across the aisle with Senator Brown and Senator Blumenthal on commonsense legislation that will help ensure our veterans have ample opportunities to get a quality education without fear that burdensome roadblocks will prevent them from realizing their American Dream.” The S.425 “megabus” bill includes: The Career-Ready Student Veterans Act Introduced by Senators Tillis and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and endorsed by President Obama, the legislation would require that programs of education designed to prepare students for licensure or certification by a state, or for employment subject to the approval of a state board or agency, must meet any state curriculum requirements or be approved or licensed by the appropriate state entity in order for the course to be approved for VA educational benefits. The Fry Scholarship Enhancement Act Introduced by Senators Tillis and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), the legislation would authorize Yellow Ribbon program eligibility for dependents receiving Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits under the Fry scholarship. The Veterans Education Relief and Restoration Act The legislation, which was introduced by Senators Tillis and Blumenthal and subsequently endorsed by President Obama, would provide veterans impacted by closures of education institutions certain relief and restoration of education benefits. The legislation restores entitlement for individuals who pursued a program of education with VA educational assistance and failed to receive credit as a result of the closure of their educational institution.
12.10.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to criticize the Obama Administration’s lack of support for Camp Liberty, a former U.S. military installation in Baghdad that now houses approximately 2,300 Iranian political refugees who oppose the totalitarian Islamic Republic of Iran. Camp Liberty has been targeted in countless attacks over the last several years, including an attack on October 29, 2015, during which an Iran-backed militia fired 16 Iranian-made rockets at the camp, killing more than 20 refugees. The deadly attack came only weeks after the Iranian government signed a nuclear deal with the P5+1 powers. Despite initially working to create Camp Liberty and pledging to protect the Iranian refugees, the Obama Administration has been slow to address the camp’s security vulnerabilities. “The men, women and children at Camp Liberty have suffered numerous attacks resulting in hundreds of casualties. Camp Liberty, which was supposed to be a temporary home before the refugees were resettled outside Iraq, has not received the most basic humanitarian needs. They lack clean water, decent food, medical supplies and decent living facilities,” said Senator Tillis. “The Obama Administration pledged to protect these refugees who put their lives and their children’s lives on the line for freedom, yet it has done absolutely nothing to keep America’s word.” Watch Senator Tillis’ floor speech here:
12.09.2015	At today’s Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) questioned Secretary of Defense Ash Carter on the Obama Administration’s inadequate response to the rise of ISIS. “The President has repeatedly said ISIS is not gaining strength and is contained, but recent events seem to contradict that statement entirely,” said Senator Tillis. “We need to defeat ISIS, and I urge the President to develop a strategy so we can protect American citizens from future attacks.” Yesterday, Senator Tillis and a group of Senate Republicans sent a letter to President Obama urging him to pursue additional military options to destroy ISIS abroad and protect the nation from further attacks against American citizens. The recommendations to the President include embedding U.S. military advisors with Iraqi Security Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and Sunni tribal forces down to the battalion level; creating safe zones for refugees inside Syria; and pursuing a robust role for NATO in combatting ISIS and securing the safety of refugees. Watch the video here:
12.09.2015	Today, members of the U.S. House of Representatives Oversight and Government Reform (OGR) Committee successfully agreed to send The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act out of committee and to the House floor for an upcoming vote. The bipartisan legislation, originally introduced in the Senate by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Carper (D-DE), excludes payments from state eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining federal benefits. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Mark Warner (D-VA) are original co-sponsors of the Senate bill, which successfully passed through the chamber last week with a unanimous vote. Representatives Patrick McHenry (NC-10) and G.K. Butterfield (NC-01) are leading the effort to ensure this legislation successfully passes through the House chamber. Representative Mark Walker (NC-06), a member of the OGR Committee, urged his colleagues this morning to pass this bipartisan legislation out of committee and to the House floor. State-run eugenics and compulsory sterilization laws victimized more than 60,000 Americans in 33 states from the 1920s to the 1970s. State governments often targeted specific groups for sterilization, including unmarried women, African-Americans, and children from poor families. Victims were often sterilized without their consent or knowledge. In 2013, North Carolina became the first state in the nation to pass legislation to create a state fund to compensate the living victims of the state-run forced sterilization program. In 2014, more than 200 North Carolina victims were awarded their first compensation payment of approximately $20,000 each. Last month, victims began receiving their second eugenics compensation payments, worth an additional $15,000. The legislation will help assist living eugenics victims receiving compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal public benefits such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, and SSI-Disabled. Without this legislation, many eugenics victims who receive compensation payments could see their federal benefits reduced or even have their eligibility eliminated. “I am thrilled to see this legislation move quickly through both chambers of Congress, and I look forward to seeing a full vote in the House,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation can never right the wrongs of the past, but I applaud my colleagues in both the Senate and House for their efforts to pass this bill and further increase the public’s awareness of the horrors and injustices of state-run eugenics and sterilization programs. I hope other states follow the lead of North Carolina and create their own eugenics compensation programs.” “I am encouraged that the House is taking up this important piece of legislation,” said Senator Burr. “Eugenics and sterilization programs are a dark part of our history. We can’t go back in time and undo the damage that was done to the victims and their families. However, we can take the necessary steps to assist those who were affected, including on the state level to help these individuals.” “Today’s news is a positive development in our continued efforts to right the wrongs committed during this shameful period of our state’s history,” said Congressman McHenry. “We can never fully repay the victims of this horrific program but our legislation at least ensures they are not victimized again. I’d like to thank Chairman Chaffetz and members of the Oversight Committee for their swift action on my bill. I look forward to seeing this important legislation come to the House floor early next year.” “Between 1929 and 1976 more than 7,000 people in North Carolina were sterilized in one of the nation’s most aggressive eugenic programs,” said Congressman Butterfield. “I applaud the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform for their expeditious and favorable consideration of this important legislation and look forward to its passage and enactment.” “We will never be able to justify North Carolina’s sterilization program, nor will we be able to delete this page of our state’s history. However, we can acknowledge these injustices and make restitutions,” said Congressman Walker. “I applaud Senator Tillis for leading this effort in North Carolina and in Washington. This bill should serve as a reminder that every life is precious and I look forward to seeing its passage in the House.”
12.09.2015	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Senate passed the Every Student Succeeds Act with a 85-12 vote: “I am proud that the Senate could come to together and pass this important legislation that is long overdue. Though imperfect, this legislation enacts important reforms to our education system by strengthening state and local control and ending the Common Core mandate as well as federal test-based accountability. We are taking the federal government out of the classroom and returning control to where it belongs: parents, teachers, local communities, and states. North Carolina students deserve the best and I’m pleased this legislation will increase funding to the state, ensuring our communities in need get the funding they deserve.”
12.08.2015	Today, U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and a group of Senate Republicans urged President Barack Obama to pursue additional military options to degrade and destroy ISIS abroad and protect the nation from further attacks against American citizens: “The American people are understandably concerned in the aftermath of the horrific attack in San Bernardino and increasingly apprehensive about the prospect of another terrorist attack on American soil,” the Senators wrote. “To safeguard our own national security, we must step up the military fight against ISIS as soon as possible, but it will require sustained, long-term American engagement to resolve the deeper problems that have allowed ISIS to incubate and gather strength in Syria and Iraq.” In addition to Sen. Tillis, the letter was signed by Senators John Cornyn (R-TX), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), David Perdue (R-GA), Jim Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Mike Rounds (R-SD), John Thune (R-SD), and David Vitter (R-LA). Full text of the letter is below. The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United States1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: In the wake of the recent wave of devastating terrorist attacks by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) on Paris, Beirut, and the Russian airliner flying over Egypt, as well as last week’s attack in San Bernardino that appears to have been inspired by ISIS, we write today to both express support for your stated objective to “degrade and ultimately destroy” ISIS and to urge you to employ more effective means to accomplish that worthy goal. ISIS poses a direct threat to our country, and the magnitude of that threat is growing as a result of this terrorist army’s expanded operational reach. The recent attacks prove that ISIS now has the ability to carry out mass-casualty terrorist attacks well beyond its self-proclaimed “caliphate” in Syria and Iraq. The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency recently warned that ISIS likely has additional attacks planned, and the group has publicly declared its intention to strike the mainland United States. We also know that ISIS is aggressively pursuing a more robust chemical weapons capability and, to that end, has recruited scientists and other technical experts. The American people are understandably concerned in the aftermath of the horrific attack in San Bernardino and increasingly apprehensive about the prospect of another terrorist attack on American soil. Over the past couple of years, as ISIS has murdered and raped its way across the Syrian and Iraqi countryside, it has also succeeded in reenergizing the global jihadi movement, driven by its evil ideology and fueled by its hateful propaganda. The King of Jordan has described the struggle against ISIS in stark terms, calling it a “third world war against humanity.” Likewise, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter testified recently that “We’re at war” against ISIS. The group’s ranks in Syria and Iraq have swelled to as many as 30,000 jihadists, due in part to its leveraging of social media platforms and dark corners of the Internet to recruit from all over the world. Even more alarming is the threat that ISIS and its adherents now pose to us here at home, in the form of a jihadist already living on U.S. soil and planning the next deadly attack. As a nation, we have a clear and vital interest at stake in Syria and Iraq – preventing terrorist attacks against America and our allies – and that obligates us to intensify the effort to destroy ISIS. That vital interest can only be safeguarded through the elimination of the sanctuary that ISIS has carved out for itself in Iraq and Syria. We believe we are at a strategic inflection point in the fight against ISIS and that, without a well-informed strategy change to arrest this group’s momentum, the task of defeating it will multiply in its difficulty and complexity. We listened carefully to your Oval Office address on Sunday but were disappointed to learn that the same ineffective approach will continue to be implemented. In September, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, characterized the fight against ISIS as “tactically stalemated,” an assessment that we believe still holds true. To break this stalemate, we ask you to formulate a comprehensive military strategy against ISIS and bring to bear additional military means. In the near term, our principal strategic goal must be to shatter the ISIS narrative of invincibility, in order to stem this group’s ability to recruit or inspire additional jihadists, both those who would physically travel to Syria or Iraq to join ISIS and those who would remain outside its sanctuary and conduct attacks on their home nations or neighboring ones, including the United States. In order to effectively undermine the ISIS narrative, the coalition must inflict upon it highly visible territorial losses, starting with Iraq, including the recapture of Ramadi, Fallujah, and Mosul. To that end, we recommend that you pursue, at a minimum, several additional military options: U.S. military advisors. To bolster the Iraqi Security Forces, the Kurdish Peshmerga, and Sunni tribal forces, we should embed U.S. military advisors to serve alongside them in combat units down to the battalion level, including those on the front lines. We must work more closely with our local ground partners. Without effective ground forces, ISIS cannot be dislodged from the territory it now holds in Syria and Iraq. Joint Terminal Attack Controllers (JTACs). We should deploy and embed additional U.S. troops to serve as JTACs, embedded with our local ground partners, in order to make our airstrikes against ISIS more precise and more lethal. Close air support. We should deploy and utilize additional close air support platforms, including Apache attack helicopters, to provide more effective support to our ground partners who are in close contact with ISIS, in coordination with the embedded JTACs. Airstrike approval process. We should review the current approval process for coalition airstrikes, which we understand is unwieldy, and consider removing barriers that inhibit our pilots from attacking ISIS targets that are both timely and strategically significant. In addition, we ask you to consider two more far-reaching courses of action: Safe zones. We should establish one or more safe zones inside Syria, primarily for the protection of Syrian refugees. Creating and maintaining these so-called no-fly and no-drive zones would be a substantial military and humanitarian undertaking, but in so doing we would help safeguard innocent men, women, and children not just from Bashar al-Assad’s aircraft and barrel bombs, but also from ground attacks by Assad’s forces and ISIS. We would also help avert the mass exodus of Syrian refugees fleeing their own homeland for other countries in the region and in Europe. NATO role. In light of the continuing threat posed to multiple member-nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), we should consider pursuing a robust and central NATO role in combating ISIS, as recently proposed by former NATO Supreme Allied Commander, Admiral (Ret.) James Stavridis. Leading the planning, implementation, and command-and-control of a mission to establish safe zones in Syria may be an appropriate mission for NATO. This list of potential courses of action is not an exhaustive one, but we believe that pursuing even some of these would represent a needed boost in the fight against ISIS. Further, a number of these options or related ones have been proposed by two of your former Secretaries of Defense, Robert Gates and Leon Panetta, and we agree that they are worthy of serious consideration. A more robust U.S. military effort is also likely to attract greater contributions from both NATO allies and, more importantly, regional partners. We recognize that credible military action is necessarily only one element of any sound strategy to defeat ISIS. In addition, we know that the effort to dislodge ISIS from the territory it currently holds must be undergirded by a political framework that will sustain a lasting rejection of ISIS’s bankrupt ideology, which will itself require significant Sunni participation in Iraqi national governance. We also recognize that the threat of ISIS cannot be divorced from the overall conflict in Syria, which continues to rage, fueled further by Russian and Iranian interference. To safeguard our own national security, we must step up the military fight against ISIS as soon as possible, but it will require sustained, long-term American engagement to resolve the deeper problems that have allowed ISIS to incubate and gather strength in Syria and Iraq. Success will not come easily or cheaply, but we urge you as our commander-in-chief to do whatever it takes to defeat ISIS and keep the American citizenry safe from harm.
12.03.2015	Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor about the need to repeal and replace Obamacare ahead of today’s vote on the Restoring Americans' Health Care Freedom Reconciliation Act. Senator Tillis highlighted the failed promises of the Obama Administration and shared examples of Obamacare’s negative effects on North Carolinians and Americans across the country. “Last year I promised the citizens of North Carolina that if I were elected I would do everything I could to repeal and replace Obamacare, and this upcoming vote is fulfilling that promise,” said Senator Tillis. “Along with every other Senator, I have received numerous calls and letters from constituents informing me how Obamacare has caused them immeasurable financial and emotional hardship, and I am happy we have the opportunity to end this failed law so we can begin to provide the healthcare Americans deserve.” Watch Senator Tillis’ Floor Speech Here:
12.02.2015	The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives conferees yesterday approved a final version of the five-year highway bill, H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act) authorizing federal surface transportation programs through fiscal year (FY) 2020. Included in the final legislation are provisions previously introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) that amend the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 and designate the following North Carolina highways as high priority corridors and future interstates: Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor from Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina, to Norfolk, Virginia. U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner to the Port at Morehead City, and U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison. The designation of the highways would advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that will become part of the Interstate system once they are fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. “I am pleased that the Senate and House were able to agree on a five-year highway bill that would designate the Raleigh-Norfolk and U.S. 70 corridors as future interstates,” said Sen. Tillis. “This legislation would produce long-lasting benefits for North Carolina, including reduced traffic congestion, improved access to military bases, and increased investments in our state’s transportation and infrastructure.” “With North Carolina highway improvements locked into the final highway bill, road upgrades are looking more promising than ever before,” said Sen. Burr. “This is an enormous step in the right direction, and these improvements are vital for our state's infrastructure and encourages economic expansion by connecting some of the east coast’s largest ports to North Carolina’s cities and towns.” The bill will return to the House and Senate for a final vote.
12.01.2015	Last night, the Senate unanimously passed The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act, legislation introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Carper (D-DE) that excludes payments from state eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining federal benefits. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Mark Warner (D-VA) are original co-sponsors of the legislation. State-run eugenics and compulsory sterilization laws victimized more than 60,000 Americans in 33 states from the 1920s to the early 1970s. State governments often targeted specific groups for sterilization, including unmarried women, African-Americans, and children from poor families. Victims were often sterilized without their consent or knowledge. In 2013, North Carolina became the first state in the nation to pass legislation to create a state fund to compensate the living victims of the state-run forced sterilization program. In 2014, more than 200 North Carolina victims were awarded their first compensation payment of approximately $20,000 each. Earlier this month, victims began receiving their second eugenics compensation payments, worth an additional $15,000. Earlier this year, Virginia became the second state to pass legislation compensating the victims of a state-run eugenics program. Virginia will award $25,000 to each individual who was involuntarily sterilized and is still alive as of February 1, 2015. The legislation will help assist living eugenics victims receiving compensation payments by excluding their payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal public benefits such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, and SSI-Disabled. Without this legislation, many eugenics victims who receive compensation payments could see their federal benefits reduced or even have their eligibility eliminated. “I am proud that the Senate was able to come together to unanimously pass legislation that ensures federal laws do not unintentionally punish victims who receive eugenics compensation by preventing them from receiving the federal benefits they are entitled to,” said Senator Tillis. “It is my hope this will further increase the public’s awareness of the horrors and injustices of state-run eugenics and sterilization programs and help persuade other states to follow the lead of North Carolina and create their own eugenics compensation programs. My friend, former state Rep. Larry Womble, deserves special recognition for leading the decades-long fight for the living victims of North Carolina’s eugenics program. Without him, the legislation that passed this week would not be possible.” “People who’ve been subjected to horrifying sterilization practices as a result of misguided eugenics programs have already had to live with unfathomable loss and hardship,” said Senator Tom Carper. “These individuals shouldn’t be penalized for compensation funds that they have received for their suffering, especially because it can never repair the pain they’ve had to endure. I’m proud the Senate came together across party lines to approve this important effort to ensure that no person loses important federal benefits because they received this type of compensation.” “The Senate took a step forward to ensure that Americans targeted by state eugenics programs during a dark period of American history will receive compensation for the misdeeds of the state and federal government,” said Senator Burr. “The victims of these eugenics and sterilization programs were often subjected to procedures without their knowledge or consent. This bipartisan legislation will provide assistance to those who suffered as a result of horrific decisions made by our government.” “Largely unnoticed, forced sterilizations and state-run eugenics programs represent one of the darkest episodes of human rights violations and injustices of our country’s past,” said Senator Kaine. “Today, I am pleased to see the Senate take a major step to right this historical wrong by passing the bipartisan Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act. This bill excludes payments from state eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining federal benefits. I’m glad that Virginia has begun the process of compensating victims, but there is still more we must do.” “This shameful period in Virginia’s history is thankfully in the past, but there are still living victims who are suffering from its dark legacy,” said Senator Warner. “Receiving just compensation for this horrible injustice should not unintentionally prevent victims from receiving federal assistance they’re entitled to. I’m pleased that this bill has passed the Senate and encourage the House to right this wrong by doing the same.”
11.20.2015	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC), along with Senators Tom Cotton (R-AR), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Jerry Moran (R-KS), John Boozman (R-AR), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Rob Portman (R-OH), and Susan Collins (R-ME) sent letters to the Secretary of Defense, Ashton Carter, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS), General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., expressing concern over the Obama Administration’s recent release of Shaker Aamer from the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay. The letters note that the notification of transfer for Mr. Aamer did not list the Joint Chiefs of Staff as one of the entities “concurring” and “approving” of the transfer, as is normally the case. This indicates that the CJCS did not agree with the Administration’s decision to release Shaker Aamer. The letters go on to request Secretary Carter and General Dunford answers to questions about this transfer to the Senate and House Armed Services, Intelligence, Foreign Relations, Homeland Security, and Appropriations Committees. The full text of the letters can be found here and here. Senators Tillis and Burr oppose President Obama’s short-sighted proposal to close Guantanamo Bay and transfer the world’s most dangerous terrorists to prisons in the United States. The Senate recently passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in a resoundingly bipartisan 91-3 vote, which included a provision that legally bans the transfer of terrorists at Guantanamo to facilities in the United States.
11.18.2015	Today, the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs held a hearing to discuss legislation focused on health care and benefits for our nation’s veterans. The committee looked at five bills, three of which Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) originally co-sponsored: S.2106 – Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act of 2015; S.2170 – Veterans E-Health & Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act of 2015; and S.2253 – Department of Veteran Affairs Veterans Education Relief and Restoration Act of 2015 “Taking care of our veterans and ensuring they’re receiving the benefits they’ve earned is not and will never be a partisan effort,” said Senator Tillis. “During my first year as a Senator, I have prioritized helping veterans and will continue to work diligently to fix the issues plaguing the VA. Today’s hearing is proof that the Senate is committed to working together on a bipartisan basis to remove the bureaucratic barriers in the VA, and we will continue on this path toward delivering the high quality care and assistance our veterans deserve.” Panelists at the hearing included representatives from five different Veterans Service Organizations who overwhelmingly supported the three bipartisan bills introduced by Senator Tillis. Background: S.2016 – The Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act of 2015, sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), would require the secretary of the VA to develop and publish an action plan for improving the training and rehabilitation provided by the VA for veterans with service-connected disabilities. S.2106 was included in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill, which passed the Senate 93-0 last week. S.2170 – The Veterans E-Health & Telemedicine Support (VETS) Act of 2015, sponsored by Senators Thom Tillis, (R-NC), Joni Ernst (R-IA), Mazi Hirono (D-HI), John Boozman (R-AR), and Mike Rounds (R-SD), would allow qualified VA health care professionals to provide telemedicine to veterans in their homes across state lines. S.2253 – The Department of Veteran Affairs Veterans Education Relief and Restoration Act of 2015, sponsored by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), would provide veterans impacted by closures of education institutions certain relief and restoration of education benefits. Restores entitlement for individuals who pursued a program of education with VA educational assistance and failed to receive credit as a result of the closure of their educational institution. Last week, President Obama endorsed S.2253 and urged Congress to pass it as soon as possible.
11.12.2015	Earlier this week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor to honor the memory of Dorothy Helms, the ever gracious wife of the late Senator Jesse Helms. Mrs. Helms passed away on November 6th, 2015, at the age of 96. “I have the sad duty to report to the Senate of the passing of the First Lady of North Carolina, Dorothy (Dot) Helms,” said Senator Tillis. “Dot Helms and North Carolina are one and the same. Dorothy was the rock of her family. For her family and friends and a grateful nation, we can turn in comfort to the Second Book of Timothy: ‘I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.’ She will be missed so much, but the family rejoices that they had her for so long.” “Dot,” as she was called by many of her friends, was a trailblazer in North Carolina. She was the one of the first two women graduates for journalism at UNC-Chapel Hill. After graduating from UNC, Mrs. Helms worked at The Raleigh News and Observer as a city reporter and later as society editor. While working at The News and Observer, she met her future husband, who was then a member of the sports department. Mrs. Helms was a leader in Christian causes such as her sponsorship of the interdenominational children’s Camp Willow Run at Lake Gaston. While in Washington, she taught at Gallaudet University and wrote a history of great deaf Americans. In the Senate, she was the Leader of the Senate Ladies Bible Study, the Congressional Wives Prayer Group and the U.S. Senate Chapter of the Red Cross. Watch Senator Tillis’ Floor Speech Here:
11.11.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement in honor of Veterans Day: “While we should thank and praise our veterans every day of the year, this special day we honor those who have served and continue to serve the United States to protect our freedom as Americans. In my short tenure as a United States Senator and member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I have been humbled by the bipartisan efforts of my colleagues to support those who have carried the fight. “As our soldiers return home and transition into civilian life, it is critical that we provide them the with the resources necessary to earn the lifelong benefits of higher education. I thank President Obama for recognizing this imperative, because today he urged Congress to swiftly pass two bills I’ve introduced with Senator Blumenthal (D-CT) that focus on improving education opportunities for our veterans, the Career-Ready Student Veterans Act of 2015 and the Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act of 2015. “This support from the President and both parties in Congress show we’re moving in the direction that President Lincoln laid out for America in his Second Inaugural Address to care for ‘him who bore the battle and for his widow and orphan.’ It is my hope that North Carolina’s veterans and those across the nation understand that they deserve nothing less than the full support of the President and Congress to fix the Veterans Administration and provide our warriors with the care they have earned.” Background: Earlier this morning, President Obama called on Congress to quickly pass several bills aimed to improve education, health care, benefits, homelessness and economic opportunity for our Veterans. The President endorsed two bills co-introduced by Senators Tillis and Blumenthal (D-CT): The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act of 2015 would provide relief for veterans’ whose education benefits through the Post-9/11 GI Bill are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act (VERRA) would expand the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) authority to restore the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits of veterans who are affected by the permanent closure of educational institutions. Currently, the VA cannot fully restore a veterans’ benefits if a school they attend permanently closes. The Career-Ready Student Veterans Act of 2015 would provide stronger consumer protection measures for veterans by prohibiting schools lacking appropriate programmatic accreditation from receiving GI Bill benefits. Veterans would be protected from wasting education benefits on educational programs that will not equip them for employment.
11.11.2015	On Veterans Day, Americans come together to honor and thank the brave men and women who have risked their lives to protect our nation's values. It is a particularly special occasion for North Carolina, a state blessed with a rich military tradition. Nearly 10 percent of North Carolinians are veterans, and we are home to Fort Bragg, the largest military installation in the free world, the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Army Airfield and the nation's Global Response Force. While we all share a tremendous pride for our military and those who have answered the call of duty, we also know that merely lavishing words of praise on our veterans isn't enough. Our nation has made promises to provide our veterans with quality health care and work and educational opportunities upon their return home. However, the unfortunate reality is that we have fallen far short in repaying America's collective debt of gratitude. Veterans continue to face unacceptable wait times at VA clinics. The VA's offering of mental health care services and resources has been wholly insufficient in meeting the demands of those who served. Additionally, in the midst of a rapidly evolving workforce that has grown increasingly competitive, Washington has fallen short in providing 21st century job training and educational choices for veterans. Make no mistake, while I've expressed my fair share of frustrations and criticisms of the Obama Administration and the VA system, I also know that fulfilling our promises to veterans requires bipartisan ideas, collaboration and execution.That is the approach I have taken during my brief time as a member of the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee. One of the first things I did was visit all of North Carolina's VA Medical Centers in Fayetteville, Asheville, Durham, and Salisbury, where I met with facility leaders and staff, and personally received first-hand updates from veterans on wait times and other challenges facing the VA system. I have worked with my colleagues across party lines to author and support legislation that holds the VA accountable and improves the lives of veterans. I have also developed a close relationship with VA Secretary Robert McDonald, and together we have formed a working group to create a long-term strategic vision for the VA that focuses on the implementation of efficiency-focused solutions that will improve the speed and quality of care. We have seen some progress in Washington over the past year. The Senate took a necessary step toward prioritizing mental health care services for veterans by passing the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention For American Veterans Act, a bill that I co-sponsored. The legislation, which was signed into law by President Obama, directs the Secretary of the VA to conduct annual evaluations of mental health care and suicide prevention programs and then make any necessary improvements. Additionally, I've teamed up with my colleague Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a Democrat, to introduce a series of commonsense bills aimed at increasing access to affordable and quality education for veterans and their immediate family members. This week, I will be introducing another bill with Sen. Brown that will help modernize parameters of programs covered by VA education benefits to include online programs. Supporting our veterans will always be among my top priorities as your Senator. Any veteran in North Carolina who is having an issue with the VA - whether it's facing an unacceptably long time to get an appointment, or receiving substandard care or service - should immediately contact my regional field office by calling 919-856-4630 or emailing me on my website at tillis.senate.gov. Members of my staff are ready and willing to help you navigate through the red-tape at the VA to help ensure you receive the care you have need. This Veterans Day, let us not only thank our veterans, but also recommit ourselves to providing them with the care and opportunities they have earned. We can and must do better to repay the brave patriots who have given us all so much. Sen. Thom Tillis, a Republican, is a member of both the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee and the Senate Armed Services Committee.
11.10.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Senators Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Mike Rounds (R-SD), and Mark Warner (D-VA) at a press conference to introduce the “Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act,” which makes common-sense changes to staffing policies at the Department of Veterans Affairs to improve the quality and delivery of care for veterans. Additional co-sponsors include Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ REMARKS HERE. The bipartisan legislation is supported by more than 40 veterans and health care organizations, including the Vietnam Veterans of America, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Reserve Officers Association (ROA), the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), and the American Nurses Association. “This legislation is a textbook example of how members of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee are coming together to identify the challenges facing the VA, and then working together to come up with common-sense, bipartisan solutions,” said Senator Tillis. “The VA has struggled to recruit and retain physician assistants and nurse practitioners, which has exacerbated the issues already plaguing the VA system. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act directly addresses this problem by reducing bureaucratic barriers and granting full practice authority to highly-trained medical professionals, which will make it easier for VA facilities across the nation to provide our veterans with the high quality care they need and deserve.” The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act “Docs-to-Doctors” Program to Help Servicemembers Leaving the Military Transition to the VA To provide the VA with a large pool of trained medical staff who are already serving their country, this program improves the ability of the VA to recruit veterans who served as health care providers while in the military by requiring that the VA receive a list of servicemembers who served in a health care capacity while in the military or as part of the Coast Guard and have filed for separation in the previous 12 months; and treating these veterans as applicants from within the VA to allow for a more expeditious hiring process. Uniform Credentialing Standards Currently, VA doctors have to “recredential” every time they change hospitals or provide services at a hospital outside of their VA regional healthcare system. VA doctors report that his can take from six weeks to three months. In a unified health care system like the VA, it needlessly limits the VA’s flexibility to have medical professionals provide services where they are most needed. The Veterans Health Care Staffing Improvement Act would require the VA Secretary to create uniform credentialing rules for medical professionals across the Veterans Health Administration. Full Practice Authority for Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) and Physician Assistants Advanced Practice Registered Nurses—nurses with post-graduate education in nursing—have advanced skills in either a specialist field or a generalist capacity, and are qualified for an advanced scope of practice. While many states allow them to practice across their full range of skills, giving health care systems better flexibility to meet patient needs, the VA has not yet granted APRNs this full practice authority. The bill requires the Secretary to provide full practice authority to all Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRNs) and Physician Assistants in Veterans Health Administration, based on the scope of practice recommended by the appropriate professional organizations. This will give VA facilities greater flexibility to meet the needs of patients, and reflects the rapid changes being made in the private sector, where PAs and Nurse Practitioners are becoming an increasingly visible part of the medical workforce. Patient surveys show that patients are not only satisfied with non-physicians are their primary contact, but actually prefer them. Duke Hospital in Durham, North Carolina, has been a leader in this patient-driven approach, utilizing an equal mix of physicians and non-physicians at its primary care clinics.
11.10.2015	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) in a 91-3 vote: “Once again, the Senate came together in a broad bipartisan fashion to pass the NDAA, which includes an amendment to help save the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield. The Senate also sent an unequivocal message to President Obama that transferring terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to the United States is not only unacceptable, but prohibited by law. The President should stop playing political games with our military and national security and sign the NDAA into law.”
11.10.2015	Today, the Senate unanimously passed the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill, 93-0. Included in the bill was the “Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act of 2015,” which was originally introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) in late September and would require the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) to publish an action plan for improving the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program (VR&E). “I am incredibly happy that the Senate came together today, prioritizing those who are willing to sacrifice for our freedoms by unanimously passing legislation to provide the funding and resources necessary to support our military and veterans,” said Senator Tillis. “I am pleased that the managers of this appropriations bill deemed the legislation I introduced with Senator Brown to be an important component in providing our troops with the resources they need both during and after their service. Support and counsel for our wounded warriors is critical as they transition back into civilian life, and the Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act will help ensure the VA has the resources they need to improve training and rehabilitation.” As members of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Senator Tillis and Brown’s legislation included in today’s MilCon/VA bill is the third piece of bipartisan legislation the Senators have co-introduced to help support our veterans. In May, they introduced the Fry Scholarship Enhancement Act of 2015 that would ensure that surviving spouses and children of servicemembers who have died in the line of duty receive the same educational benefits as the family members of servicemembers who elect to transfer their benefits. They also introduced the Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2015 in May so that veterans, students serving in the armed forces, and their qualifying dependents, can take full advantage of the federal education benefits they have earned for themselves and their families.
11.05.2015	Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis, Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs (SVAC), and SVAC Ranking Member Richard Blumenthal (D-C.T.) joined with Representatives Mark Takano (D-Calif.) and Chris Gibson (R-N.Y.) to introduce bipartisan legislation in the Senate and House that would provide relief for veterans’ whose education benefits through the Post-9/11 GI Bill are affected by the permanent closure of certain educational institutions. Earlier this year, the abrupt closing of for-profit institution Corinthian Colleges, Inc. left more than 400 veterans who were attending a Corinthian school stranded without a degree or any benefits for school, housing, and other basic necessities. The Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act (VERRA) would expand the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) authority to restore the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits of veterans who are affected by the permanent closure of Corinthian or other institutions. Currently, VA cannot fully restore a veterans’ benefits if a school they attend permanently closes. “I am pleased to co-sponsor the Veterans Education Relief and Reinstatement Act, which ensures veterans will not lose their well-deserved educational benefits that are threatened by factors outside of their control,” said Senator Tillis. “This is yet another example of Democrats and Republicans on the Veterans Affairs Committee coming together to push commonsense legislation that will benefit veterans looking to further their education.” “The pernicious, predatory exploitation of our veterans by for-profit schools is a truly egregious problem that must be stopped,” said Senator Blumenthal. “This critical measure provides peace of mind to our veterans that they will not suffer the loss of educational opportunities they earned simply because the institution they attend closes. The Post-9/11 GI Bill is fueling economic growth and opportunity in the same way the original GI Bill did generations ago. We must protect this program, and ensure that our veterans have access to good, quality education as they return to civilian life.”When schools abruptly close, like Corinthian Colleges earlier this year, they often leave student veterans with incomplete and non-transferable credits, or a loss of training time, and cuts them off from housing and food benefits,” said Congressman Takano. “The men and women who served this country should not have to bear this burden. They deserve a second chance at the education they need to advance their careers and achieve financial stability.” “As a veteran, I take great pride in supporting my fellow veterans and their families,” said Congressman Gibson. “The Veterans Education Relief and Restoration Act is just one of the many ways we are working to ensure our Veterans can continue their education and have a smooth transition to civilian life.” This Senate bill is co-sponsored by Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). The House companion is cosponsored by Representatives Mike Coffman (R-CO-6) and Mark Takai (D-HI-1). The legislation is supported by the Student Veterans of America, Veterans Education Success, and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Specifically, VERRA would provide VA with the authority to: Restore entitlement for individuals, including student veterans affected by the Corinthian collapse, who pursued a program of education with VA educational assistance and failed to receive credit – or lost training time – toward completion of the individual’s educational, professional, or vocational objective as a result of the closure of their educational institution. Continue monthly educational assistance payments – including housing allowance – through the end of the term, quarter, or semester in which the school closes, or up to four months from the date of the school closure, whatever is sooner. These extensions would be without charge to entitlement. Full bill text can be viewed here.
11.04.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Howard Coble: “Susan and I are heartbroken to hear of Howard Coble’s passing. He dedicated his life to improving the lives of others, first serving our nation as a Coast Guard captain during the Korean War, and then serving the people of North Carolina for 30 years in Congress. He was the true embodiment of a public servant who put the needs of constituents before all else, utilizing civility and finding common ground to solve problems both local and national. “The many constituents, friends, and former staffers who had the honor of knowing Howard over the years will always remember his sterling character and gentle kindness, highlighted by a legendary sense of humor. “Our nation would be far better off if we had more public servants like Howard Coble. He will be dearly missed by the people of North Carolina.”
11.04.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor against the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers’ Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. The Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule is the latest federal government land grab that will expand the scope of federal authority over land and water at the expense of farmers, ranchers, landowners and business owners across the country. “Under this rule, virtually every nook and cranny of the country will be subject to EPA control.” said Senator Tillis. “Leaders of the EPA claim those who oppose WOTUS oppose clean water. This is a completely false and elitist claim. There is complete uncertainty and layer upon layer of bureaucratic red tape. Our landowners, farmers, ranchers and business owners across the country will be subject to compliance costs, new fines, and the risk of litigation all at the discretion of the EPA.” The Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule shifts the focus of the Clean Water Act from water quality protection and navigable waters to regulating habitat and controlling water supply, allowing the EPA to regulate nearly all water sources at their discretion. Earlier today, Senator Tillis voted in favor of S.J. Resolution 22, a joint resolution of disapproval of the rule submitted. Watch Senator Tillis’ Floor Speech Opposing WOTUS Here:
11.03.2015	This week, Senator Thom Tillis joined Senator Richard Burr, Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) and Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) in writing a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Craig Fugate urging support of Governor Pat McCrory’s request for a Public Assistance disaster declaration in the amount of $31.7 million for Brunswick, Carteret, Dare, Hyde, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, and Pender Counties and statewide Hazard Mitigation as a result of severe storms and flooding that occurred during the period of September 25, 2015 through October 5, 2015. “The devastating effects of Hurricane Joaquin on the North Carolina coast caused damages that will continue to plague our beaches and local economies in the region for some time to come,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I urge FEMA Administrator Fugate to join our state in helping to rebuild our beach communities, ensuring a strong tourism industry that our local economies depend on.” “The coastal flooding and subsequent damage resulting from the effects of Hurricane Joaquin caused significant damages and losses in our coastal communities,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “I respectfully encourage FEMA Administrator Fugate to approve this request immediately so that our beach and infrastructure needs can be properly addressed. This is important for our local economy and will help provide for future flood protection.” “We must repair the beaches and dunes that were damaged by the storm,” said Senator Burr. “These environmental components are a critical piece of the system that protects North Carolina’s costal region. Failure to proceed with repairs in a timely manner could cause additional environmental and economic damage to our coastal communities that rely on tourism. In 2014, the tourism industry generated nearly half a billion dollars in Brunswick county alone.” “Coastal infrastructure is critical to protecting Eastern North Carolina against future severe weather events and supporting the local economy,” said Rep. Walter Jones. “I’m hopeful FEMA will provide the much-needed support and will continue to do everything I can to make sure our coastal communities remain resilient against natural and economic threats.” In 2014, tourism in Brunswick and Carteret Counties alone generated more than $496 million and $324 million, respectively, and accounted for more than 8,000 jobs directly related to travel and tourism. From October 14 through October 22, 2015, FEMA, state, and local representatives conducted a Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) and determined that eight North Carolina counties exceeded the threshold of eligibility for FEMA’s Public Assistance program. For each category of damage, insurance coverage was considered and estimates reduced accordingly, such that PDA estimates only include uninsured losses. More than 85 percent of the total damages are to North Carolina’s coastal county beaches, which are eligible for aid under FEMA’s Disaster Assistance Fact Sheet DAP9580.8 “Eligible Sand Replacement on Public Beaches” dated 10/01/2009, 44 CFR §206.225, 44 CFR §206.226 and 44 CFR §206.226(j)(2). For a copy of the letter, please click here.
10.30.2015	Yesterday, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), Mark Warner (D-VA), and Dr. Bill Cassidy (R-LA) introduced the bipartisan Save our Small and Seasonal Businesses Act of 2015, legislation that focuses on substantive reforms aimed to help seasonal employers better navigate the H-2B temporary non-agricultural visa program. The legislation would increase certainty for business, allowing seasonal employers to better prepare for fluctuations in demand. The H-2B program is vital to small and seasonal employers across the country who depend on temporary workers to sustain their businesses and supplement their existing American workforce. This bipartisan legislation would streamline the program to eliminate ambiguities and establish clear parameters for employers hiring H-2B workers, require increased coordination between federal agencies, and bring transparency to the program operations for greater efficiency while ensuring American workers are not displaced. “Across North Carolina and the country, seasonal employers have been unfairly facing bureaucratic barriers through the H-2B program, to the point where they are not even sure if they can continue to stay in business,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation will not only help alleviate the stress and frustrations our business owners face within the H-2B program, but will continue to place a priority on both the American workforce and our local economies.” “Maryland’s seafood industry is critical for jobs on the Eastern Shore and for our way of life. From harvesting crabs to shucking oysters, temporary and seasonal workers ensure Maryland’s seafood industry continues to prosper,” Senator Mikulski said. “I have consistently fought for an approach to the H-2B program that recognizes that one size does not fit all, protects the jobs and wages of workers, and provides the certainty small businesses need to survive. The legislation provides certainty and ends unnecessary hardships in order to support Maryland jobs. Our seafood businesses deserve a government on their side.” "This legislation makes modest and measured reforms to the H-2B visa program, which is of such vital importance to our seafood communities across the Chesapeake Bay. Improving the H-2B program, while still ensuring that Americans get first crack at ‎jobs, not only keeps Virginia’s seafood companies in business, it helps boost the local economies on the Bay and protects American workers – from watermen to crab pickers to truck drivers – who rely on a thriving Virginia seafood industry," said Senator Warner. The introduction of this bipartisan effort comes after employers have faced several road blocks navigating the H-2B process this year, including a suspension of the program that left many business owners shut out of the process. In addition to the bill, earlier this week a group of 26 Senators sent a bipartisan letter to the Department of Labor expressing concern and frustration over the Department’s H-2B labor certification process. About the H-2B Program:The H-2B Temporary Non-Agricultural Visa Program allows U.S. employers to hire immigrant workers during peak seasons to supplement the existing American workforce. Employers are required to declare that there were not enough U.S. workers who were available to do the temporary work. The number of H-2B visas is typically capped at 66,000 per year by the Department of Homeland Security. The H-2B program not only helps employers sustain their businesses during seasonal fluctuations in demand, but subsequently supports additional American jobs dependent upon seasonal business industries.
10.29.2015	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) today applaud the United States Air Force’s preliminary decision to establish a new KC-46A Pegasus Air Refueling Squadron at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in 2019. The Senators were informed of the Air Force’s decision by the Chief of Staff of The Air Force, General Mark Welsh. Seymour Johnson will undergo an environmental impact study in the next nine months before the final basing decision in the spring of 2016. “Establishing the new flight squadron at Seymour Johnson reaffirms the fact that America’s military does not move unless North Carolina goes first,” said Sen. Tillis. “This is a testament to the outstanding work being done by the airmen of Seymour Johnson and the people of Goldsboro and Wayne County.” “The Air Force’s preliminary decision reaffirms North Carolina’s strategic value to the military,” said Sen. Burr. “This is tremendous news for Goldsboro, Wayne County and North Carolina and the community around the base. North Carolina is ideally situated both geographically and enterprise wide to best provide support and defense to our nation.” The KC-46A, is a multirole tanker that can refuel all U.S., allied and coalition military aircraft compatible with international aerial refueling procedures. Boeing designed the KC-46 to carry passengers, cargo and patients. The aircraft can detect, avoid, defeat and survive threats using multiple layers of protection. The KC-46A will augment the older KC-135 Stratotankers fleet of the 916th Air Refueling Wing at Seymour Johnson. The 916th ARW is one of the most honored flying units in the Air Force and the Pegasus will enhance the wing’s global mission to support U.S. forces and NATO allies in air-to-air refueling, cargo and passenger hauling and aeromedical evacuation. Senators Tillis and Burr applauded the Air Force decision as validation that North Carolina is the tip of the American spear.
10.29.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded a bipartisan proposal reached between Senate and House leadership and the Senate and House Agriculture Committees to restore crop insurance funding cuts in the omnibus that were originally included Bipartisan Budget Agreement. This crop insurance program is an irreplaceable safety net that protects farmers in North Carolina and across the nation. Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Pat Roberts and House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway announced the agreement this morning. “America’s agricultural producers recently agreed to make difficult concessions on crop insurance in order to pass a long-term bipartisan Farm Bill,” said Senator Tillis. “I want to thank Chairmen Pat Roberts and Mike Conaway for their efforts to successfully reach an agreement today with the Senate and House leadership to restore the funds for the agricultural safety net, preventing costly sacrifices our farmers and rural communities across the country cannot afford. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on the Senate Agriculture Committee to help ensure our farmers and producers have the tools and resources they need to drive our economy and create jobs.”
10.28.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), along with a group of 25 other Senators, sent a letter to the Department of Labor (DOL), expressing concern and frustration over the Department’s H-2B labor certification process. The bipartisan letter explains the complications employers with H-2B workers face when working with the Department, specifically the excessive delays in requesting a prevailing wage determination. “Small businesses in our states rely on this program for seasonal workers, and we are concerned that the U.S. Department of Labor is creating unnecessary and burdensome delays that are causing hardship for American small businesses, consumers, and communities that rely on the jobs and economic growth facilitated by the H-2B program,” the senators wrote. Signing this letter is yet another step Senator Tillis has taken to support North Carolina’s business owners that depend on the H-2B program to sustain their production. Without H-2B workers, many North Carolina employers in the seafood processing, hospitality/tourism, landscaping, and forestry industries will have to shut their doors, and local economies across the country will suffer as thousands of permanent American jobs are contingent upon the visa program. Read the Bipartisan Letter to the DOL Here.
10.27.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, questioned Secretary of Defense Ash Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Joseph F. Dunford on whether they were consulted by President Obama before his veto of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. Senator Tillis also inquired whether Secretary Carter and General Dunford believed the president’s veto of the NDAA was positive or negative for our nation’s Armed Forces and if the needs of our military will be met if the NDAA is not signed into law. General Dunford testified that he was not consulted by President Obama and he believes some needs of the U.S. military will not be met if the NDAA is not signed into law. Secretary Carter said he was consulted and supported the veto. “I find it remarkable given the circumstances we are in now and the testimony today, that we would take a step back with this NDAA while we continue to fight this fight,” said Senator Tillis. “This requires a willing administration, and it is clear to me this Administration is not willing to confront the challenges our men and women in uniform face today. Taking a step back in these times just does not make sense.” Tillis also questioned Secretary Carter on his recent statements that the death of Master Sargent Joshua Wheeler did not occur during combat, stating, “Secretary Carter, you testified that in that particular operation, those are the operations that are happening frequently where American soldiers are at risk. I would consider that as a combat operation.” After Tillis’ questioning, Secretary Carter reclaimed his statement, admitting M Sgt. Wheeler was indeed in combat at the time of his death. M Sgt. Wheeler was killed in an ISIS raid to rescue 70 hostages in Iraq on October 22, 2015. M Sgt. Wheeler was stationed at Ft. Bragg, NC, and is the first American to die in the war against ISIS. Secretary Carter and the Obama Administration had previously been hesitant to call M Sgt. Wheeler’s death a “combat death” in an effort to comport with President Obama's vow to keep U.S. troops out of combat in Iraq. Watch Senator Tillis’ Questioning Here:
10.23.2015	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) applauded the UNC Board of Governors for electing former United States Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings as the next UNC System President. “Secretary Spellings is an extremely qualified individual who has the experience needed to lead the UNC System into the next era of distinction,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “The UNC System stands head and shoulders above its peers worldwide, and Secretary Spellings has proven she possesses the level of determined leadership required to tackle the challenges that face higher education today. Secretary Spellings’ commitment to college affordability, accessibility, and accountability is precisely the right set of priorities that will allow our university system to thrive.” “Margaret Spellings will make an outstanding president of the University of North Carolina system,” said Senator Richard Burr. “Her years of commitment to college access and completion, particularly for traditionally underserved populations, and knowledge of the nexus between graduate success and job placement rank her amongst our country’s best education leaders. Spellings also understands how to navigate Washington’s regulatory environment which continues to impose greater burdens on higher education systems across the country. I commend the members for their diligence and commitment to finding the best candidate.”
10.22.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that he has co-sponsored the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, and worked with the bill’s original co-sponsors to include language in the manager’s amendment that requires the Department of Justice to review each candidate for early release on a case-by-case basis. Tillis’ language is included in the bill that will be voted on by the Senate Judiciary Committee later today. The Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act, which was the result of a landmark bipartisan compromise, recalibrates prison sentences for certain non-violent drug offenders while also targeting violent criminals and adding two new mandatory minimum sentences. The legislation also seeks to reduce recidivism through education, job training, drug rehabilitation, and faith-based programs. Under the legislation, sentencing courts must consider a multitude of factors when considering the reduction of the mandatory minimum sentence of a defendant. The language proposed by Senator Tillis adds an additional layer of accountability by also requiring the Department of Justice to conduct a particularized inquiry of the facts and circumstances of each defendant. “During my tenure as Speaker of the House in North Carolina, I worked across party lines to help enact the most significant sentencing and corrections reform effort undertaken in decades. Today, North Carolina is seeing the results of that effort, as we are responsibly lessening our investment in corrections and reinvesting those savings in community programs that reduce crime and build safer communities,” said Senator Tillis. “Although it is not perfect, I’ve co-sponsored the bipartisan Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act with the hope that we can accomplish similar outcomes at the federal level. After consulting with members of the law enforcement community, the Department of Justice, and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I worked with my fellow committee members to include a commonsense provision that aims to provide additional accountability and safeguards at the federal level.”
10.22.2015	Today, President Barack Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, which recently passed both chambers of Congress with strong bipartisan support. Following the president’s decision to veto the NDAA for FY16, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis (R) and Richard Burr (R) released the below statement: “President Obama’s veto today not only threatens the military readiness and security of our nation, but also represents a stunning rejection of the longstanding tradition of casting partisan politics aside to prioritize and protect the brave men and women in uniform who risk their lives for us every single day. “This veto also stands to harm the nation’s Global Response Force, as the NDAA includes an amendment to maintain the C-130 presence at Fort Bragg – the true tip of the spear that provides our troops with the tools and resources they need to maintain the United States’ position as the strongest and most capable military the world has ever seen. “In a time when our nation faces the most severe national security threats since September 11, 2001, it is incomprehensible that the President fails to prioritize national defense, exposing our troops to greater risk and undermining our security in the process. Congress must put our military and troops first and override this veto.” Background:Senators Tillis and Burr successfully included an amendment into the final NDAA that aims to preserve the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield in North Carolina. Under Tillis and Burr’s amendment, the C-130Hs cannot be removed from Fort Bragg unless the following leadership approvals indicate our national security and readiness of the Global Response Force will not be jeopardized: Consultation with Commanders of the XVIII Airborne Corps, the 82nd Airborne Division, and the United States Army Special Operations Command Approval of the Chief of Staff of the Army and the Secretary of the Army Approval of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Air Force Earlier this year, the Air Force delayed its plans to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield for another year, in part as a result of pressure from the North Carolina Congressional Delegation and concerns raised by Army leaders. The select House-Senate Conference Committee deemed the Tillis/Burr amendment necessary to properly fix the Department of Defense and Air Force’s strategically flawed plan to dismantle the wing, a vital unit to our country’s Global Response Force.
10.20.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted in favor of S.2146, the Stop Sanctuary Policies and Protect Americans Act. While the legislation failed by a 54-45 vote, Senator Tillis supported the bill because it would have better enforced existing federal laws, prohibiting sanctuary cities from harboring dangerous criminals here in the United States illegally. “A vast majority of the American people oppose sanctuary cities that harbor dangerous criminals who are here illegally, and I’m disappointed that my colleagues blocked this sensible anti-crime bill from coming to the floor for a full debate and vote,” said Senator Tillis. “This bill includes the common-sense ‘Kate’s Law’ that would crackdown on violent criminals here illegally, and it is endorsed by a number of top law enforcement organizations because it would help keep our communities safe.” The Stop Sanctuary Policies and Protect Americans Act would have tightened an existing federal law focused on undocumented immigrants who re-enter the country several times. The legislation is in response to recent murders and felony crimes committed by illegals who are given sanctuary in jurisdictions across the country after already being deported. The common-sense legislation was endorsed by the National Association of Police Organizations, the National Sheriff’s Association, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, and the International Union of Police Association (AFL-CIO) among others.
10.08.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced he is co-sponsoring the Ensuring Useful Research Expenditures is Key for Alzheimer’s (EUREKA) Act, which creates prized-based incentives to encourage more public-private collaboration. The EUREKA Act, introduced by Senator Roger Wicker (R-MS), would authorize the Director of the NIH to work with other federal agencies to establish prize challenges informed by the research milestones contained in the National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease. Challenges could focus in a number of areas including: Identification and validation of Alzheimer’s biomarkers; Development of non-invasive and cost-effective early detection and diagnostic tools; Repurposing of existing drugs to address Alzheimer’s disease; and Development of new tools and approaches to care for persons with Alzheimer’s disease. An advisory council that would include experts in organizing and managing such challenges as well as patient advocates and industry representatives will be constituted to determine the competitions, while a separate judging panel will evaluate submissions and make recommendations for awards to the Director of NIH. Prize challenges enable government sponsors to pay only when a prize team achieves specified goals or milestones. Although funds will be authorized and reserved for awards, prizes will only be granted when teams achieve clearly defined objectives, making the EUREKA Act a cost-effective tool. Additionally, the EUREKA Act would permit the receipt of donations from the private sector and from individuals to fund the competition and build the award fund. “I am pleased to support the bipartisan EUREKA Act, which will encourage more public-private collaboration to combat Alzheimer’s disease,” said Senator Tillis. “We have seen how public-private partnerships can result in scientific breakthroughs with other diseases, and the EUREKA Act can help in the advancement of detection tools and improvement of care for the millions of Americans who have Alzheimer’s disease.”
10.07.2015	Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) issued a joint statement congratulating Dr. Paul Modrich, a professor at the Duke University School of Medicine, and Dr. Aziz Sancar, a professor at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine, for winning the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their innovative work mapping how cells repair DNA: “We congratulate Dr. Paul Modrich and Dr. Aziz Sancar for their well-deserved Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Their ground-breaking research in discovering how cells repair DNA could be a game-changer in the treatment of cancer and other diseases. The Nobel Prize awarded to Dr. Modrich and Dr. Sancar is an incredible achievement that reaffirms North Carolina’s status as a home to world-renowned research institutions, scientists, and researchers who are literally changing the world for the better on a daily basis.”
10.07.2015	Today, the United States Senate passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 with bipartisan support. North Carolina Republican Senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr applaud the Senate for passage of this critical legislation that will support our wounded warriors, servicemembers, and their families, and will provide the necessary funding our military needs to combat ISIS and other terrorist threats around the world. Following the passage of the NDAA with a 73-26 vote, Senators Tillis and Burr urge President Obama to sign the legislation into law. Senator Tillis: “I applaud the Senate for coming together to pass this necessary legislation, ensuring our men and women in uniform have the support and resources necessary to protect our national security and maintain the United States’ position as a global military leader. I am pleased the NDAA includes an amendment to help secure the C-130H Aircraft presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield — the busiest airfield in the world for tactical training. Pope Airfield is critical to our military readiness as it is the nation’s leading global response unit and the only unit capable of having our troops ready and active in a hostile situation within 18 hours of the President’s orders. At a time when our nation faces unparalleled threats to our homeland, it is absolutely critical President Obama immediately signs this military funding bill into law. With threats of a veto on this undeniably bipartisan legislation, the President clearly underestimates the grave national security risks of budget cuts and sequestration, and even more unacceptably, is willing to put his personal agenda above the training and readiness of our troops.” Senator Burr: “I’m pleased that the National Defense Authorization Act includes the Tillis-Burr amendment on the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg (NC), a crucial component for America’s military readiness. Sen. Tillis and I have fought and will continue to fight to keep this facility functioning because its closure would mean a diminished response capability for our military. I encourage the President to sign this overwhelmingly bipartisan bill. At this moment, a presidential veto of this legislation that provides for our national defense would send the wrong signal to America’s friends and enemies. I’d ask that the President put politics aside in favor of bolstering our national security, especially as the Islamic State and other terrorist organizations are making significant gains in the Middle East.”
10.05.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement in response to news that the United States and 11 other nations have reached an agreement on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which includes a carve-out of tobacco: “Breaking the long-standing tradition of not picking winners and losers in trade agreements, the Obama Administration has decided to use the TPP as a laboratory for partisan politics by discriminating against specific agricultural commodities. This sets a dangerous precedent for future trade agreements, and I will not only vote against the TPP, but actively work to help defeat its ratification in the Senate.”
10.02.2015	Friends and Neighbors, Across North Carolina, we are experiencing a tremendous amount of rainfall this week and anticipate this inclement weather to continue as Hurricane Joaquin makes its way up the East Coast. We expect the potential for power outages and major flooding in many low-lying areas. Please note that Hyde County has a mandatory evacuation for Ocracoke Island. For questions related to this evacuation, please call (252) 926-4400. I want to make sure you have the information available in the occasion you need to deal with any disasters or power outages. My staff across the state stands ready if you have any issues connecting with Federal Disaster Assistance or FEMA. Over the weekend, my staff can be reached at (919) 922-2409 or (704) 604-8267. Stay safe, Precautionary Tips From Governor McCrory's Office Be sure your emergency supplies kit has enough bottled water and non-perishable food to sustain each family member for three to seven days. Include a weather radio, flashlight, extra batteries, toiletries, change of clothes, blankets or sleeping bag, rain gear and appropriate footwear. Also include copies of important documents, such as birth certificates and insurance policies. Plan for your pets. Gather supplies for your pet and put them in an easily-accessible container. Prepare your home. Clean out gutters and clear property of debris that could damage buildings in strong winds. Supplies, such as lumber and shutters, should be purchased now, and window casings pre-drilled. Determine if you are in a flood plain or flood-prone area. Know evacuation routes for your area. Listen to local officials and evacuate as instructed. Stay tuned to local news for the latest advisories from the National Weather Service and National Hurricane Center (NHC), as well as state and local emergency management officials. Additional information on how to plan and prepare for severe weather is located at ReadyNC.org, and the free ReadyNC app is available for download to access real-time weather, flooding, traffic and shelter information. North Carolina Emergency Contact Information FEMA 1-800-621-3362 TTY:1-800-462-7585 http://www.disasterassistance.gov/ SBA Disaster Assistance 1-202-205-6734 Coast Guard 24 hour Coast Guard search and rescue for Atlantic Region 1-757-398-6700 For Power Outages: Duke Energy 1-800-769-3766 Duke Energy Progress 1-800-419-6356 Customers may also report an outage or view current outages using our online outage map. Duke Energy also will provide updates on its social media channels to keep customers informed if significant outages occur. Duke Energy on Twitter: twitter.com/DukeEnergy Duke Energy on Facebook: facebook.com/DukeEnergy Dominion 1-866-366-4357 Albemarle EMC 1-800-274-2072 Blue Ridge Electric 1-800-448-2383 Brunswick EMC 1-800-682-5309 Cape Hatteras Electric Cooperative 1-866-511-9862 Carteret-Craven Electric Cooperative 1-800-682-2217 Central EMC 1-877-766-6769 Edgecombe Martin County Cooperative 1-800-690-0657 EnergyUnited 1-800-386-4833 Four County EMC 1-888-368-7289 French Broad EMC 1-828-649-2051 Halifax EMC 1-800-690-0522 Haywood EMC 1-800-951-6088 Jones-Onslow EMC 1-800-681-4146 Lumbee River EMC 1-800-683-5571 Pee Dee EMC 1-800-693-0190 Piedmont EMC 1-800-449-2667 Pitt and Greene EMC 1-800-622-1362 Randolph EMC 1-877-736-2633 Roanoke Electric Cooperative 1-800-358-9437 Rutherford EMC 1-800-521-0920 South River EMC 1-800-338-5530 Surry-Yadkin EMC 1-336-356-4141 Tideland EMC 1-800-637-1079 Tri-County EMC 1-800-548-4869 Union Power 1-800-794-4423 Wake EMC 1-800-743-3155
10.01.2015	The Obama Administration has formally proposed tobacco carve-out language in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a provision that would single out a specific agricultural product and strip it of rights afforded to all other agricultural products in the trade agreement. “By carving out tobacco from the TPP, the Obama Administration is discriminating against an entire agricultural commodity, setting a dangerous precedent for future trade agreements,” said Senator Tillis. “Congress granted the President trade promotion authority with the mutual understanding his Administration would negotiate trade deals in good faith. It did not vote to give the Administration the freedom to indiscriminately choose when fairness should be applied and when it should be ignored. Trade agreements should not be laboratories for setting partisan policies and picking winners and losers. If any carve-out is ultimately included in the TPP, I will work hard to help defeat its ratification.” “Over the last seven years, this Administration has consistently picked winners and losers by rigging the rules in favor of the organizations and industries they like best,” said Senator Burr. “Agricultural trade is critical to our nation’s economy and every sector of that industry creates jobs across the board. It is imperative that all of U.S. agriculture is treated fairly.”
09.30.2015	U.S. Sens. Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH), members of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, today introduced the Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act of 2015 to help veterans with service-connect disabilities find and retain employment. A companion bill has been introduced in the House. “The men and women who served our nation deserve all opportunities possible to successfully transition into civilian careers after their service,” said Tillis. “Veteran support and counsel is a vital step in that transition process and we must ensure the VA has the resources they need to improve training and rehabilitation.” “Veterans injured while serving their country deserve our help in building careers when they return home and transition to civilian life,” said Brown. “This bill would ensure that the Department of Veterans Affairs can continue to provide wounded warriors with exceptional care, training, and support.” The Wounded Warrior Employment Improvement Act would require the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) to publish an action plan for improving the VA’s Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment program (VR&E). The plan must include: Steps to remedy workload management at VA regional offices and to reduce the caseload per VR&E counselor, allowing more individualized attention for veterans; Analysis of why so few veterans who have served post-September 11, 2001, have chosen to participate in VA rehabilitation programs compared to the rate of veterans who seek VA educational assistance; Steps to increase VA rehabilitation program participation for veterans serving post-September 11, 2001; and The creation of a national staff training program for vocational rehabilitation counselors that covers post-traumatic stress disorder, mental health conditions, and traumatic brain injury. The bill is endorsed by the Wounded Warrior Project, The American Legion, the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), and the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE). A one-pager can be found here. Tillis and Brown continue to advocate for servicemembers, veterans, and their families. In May, they introduced legislation to ensure that surviving spouses and children of servicemembers who have died in the line of duty receive the same educational benefits as the family members of servicemembers who elect to transfer their benefits. The Fry Scholarship Enhancement Act of 2015 would expand eligibility for the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Yellow Ribbon Program, which helps students avoid out-of-pocket tuition and fees for education programs that cost more than the allowance set by the post 9/11 GI Bill. The senators also introduced the Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2015 in May so that veterans, students serving in the armed forces, and their qualifying dependents, can take full advantage of the federal education benefits they have earned for themselves and their families. The bill would allow veterans using their GI benefits to attain priority enrollment at four-year institutions so that they can finish their degrees before their benefits expire.
09.29.2015	Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke at a Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing on the impact of exposure to toxic chemicals on veterans. Senator Tillis took Secretary of the Navy Ray Maybus to task for questionable comments he recently made asserting there was no correlation between living at Camp Lejeune and the contraction of diseases after being exposed to toxic water contamination, despite the consensus of government scientists that there was. WATCH SENATOR TILLIS’ REMARKS HERE. “I want this Camp Lejeune problem solved, and I think Secretary Mabus should be ashamed for the statement he made this week because he’s taking the eye off the ball of solving this problem,” said Senator Tillis. Tillis also expressed his frustration with the VA for outright denying claims made by veterans for disability benefits for diseases already admitted by the VA as linked to exposure at Camp Lejeune. This is in contrast to the commitment made to Senators Tillis and Burr by the VA. Such a denial would force veterans to start the claim process over once the new program being developed by the VA to cover such diseases for exposed veterans is established. Tillis called on the VA to step up and start prioritizing results over optics. “If we have to serve more veterans, we have to serve more veterans,” said Senator Tillis. “If we need a backlog to be created because there are people with legitimate claims, create the backlog, and then we’ll figure out the operation to draw down the backlog. But let’s not have policy driven by optics.” Witnesses during the hearing included Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), who for years has been leading the fight for justice for the victims of the Camp Lejeune water poisoning, as well as retired Marine Master Sergeant Jerry Ensminger, whose nine-year old daughter Janey died from cancer after being exposed to toxic water at Camp Lejeune. Ensminger has been an outspoken advocate for the veterans and family members of Camp Lejeune.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, a select House-Senate Conference Committee released the final Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, successfully included an amendment into the final NDAA that aims to preserve the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield in North Carolina.Under Tillis’ amendment, the C-130Hs cannot be removed from Fort Bragg unless the following leadership approvals indicate our national security and readiness of the global response unit will not be jeopardized: Consultation with Commanders of the XVIII Airborne Corps, the 82nd Airborne Division, and the United States Army Special Operations Command Approval of the Chief of Staff of the Army and the Secretary of the Army Approval of the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Air Force Earlier this year, the Air Force delayed its plans to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield for another year, in part as a result of pressure from the North Carolina Congressional Delegation and concerns raised by Army leaders. The select House-Senate Conference Committee deemed Tillis’ amendment necessary to properly fix the Department of Defense and Air Force’s strategically flawed plan to dismantle the wing, a vital unit to our country’s Global Response Force.“Maintaining the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield, the busiest airfield in the world for tactical aircraft training, is not only critical to our military readiness, but to protecting our troops and all Americans,” said Senator Tillis. “In a time when our nation faces serious threats, providing opportunities to protect and strengthen our national security must be a top priority of the United States Congress. I’m beyond pleased that the FY2016 NDAA will strategically and appropriately support our men and women in uniform, giving them the resources to maintain our position as a global military leader.”
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Earlier this week, North Carolina Senators Thom Tillis (R) and Richard Burr (R) wrote to National Guard Chief General Frank Grass expressing concern over the Army’s recent decision to eliminate the state’s Apache unit as part of its Aviation Restructuring Initiative.The Senators articulated that the elimination of the 1-130th Attack Reconnaissance Battalion (ARB) unit will leave North Carolina without a deployable aviation battalion headquarters and weaken the combat prowess of the Army National Guard. The Apache unit in North Carolina was selected as the first National Guard attack helicopter formation to deploy to Operation Enduring Freedom because of their readiness and consistent performance.Tillis and Burr requested General Grass explain the criteria behind the decision to eliminate the Apache unit as well as the reasoning for accelerating the elimination. The Senators expressed their firm belief that the consistent performance and strategic location of the 1-130th Apache unit make it a unique and essential asset for national defense.
09.23.2015	Yesterday, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) wrote to Army Chief of Staff Mark A. Milley, expressing concern that the Air Force’s plan to dismantle the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield would undermine the training and readiness of America’s Global Response Force. The senators compared the strategically-flawed decision to a failed business model in which a supplier (the Air Force) dictates to a customer (the Army) how and when a service (airborne training) is delivered. Tillis and Burr requested that General Milley engage leaders at the Department of the Air Force and question them as to why they are failing to live up to their commitment to ensure American troops are properly trained and ready for combat. Air Force officials have previously admitted that they did not consult with Army leadership before proceeding with plans to remove the C-130H presence from Pope Airfield. Lt. Gen. Joseph Anderson, the former commander of Fort Bragg and the XVIII Airborne Corps, publicly expressed his opposition to dismantling the 440th Airlift Wing earlier this year, asking, “of all places in the world, why would we take that capability away from Fort Bragg?” SENATOR TILLIS AND SENATOR BURR’S LETTER TO GENERAL MILLEY: September 22, 2015 General Mark A. MilleyArmy Chief of Staff200 Army PentagonWashington, DC 20310-0200 General Milley: We remain concerned that some within the Pentagon continue to confuse the responsibilities of a supported service and a supporting service. The Air Force’s efforts to reduce support to America’s Global Response Force exemplifies this confusion by placing the desires of the supporting service ahead of the needs of the supported service. The Air Force’s proposal to support paratrooper proficiency for the XVIII Airborne Corps solely from remote airbases utterly fails as a logical business model. In no successful enterprise would a supplier or provider of support dictate to the customer how and when such support is delivered. More specifically, the Army would never offer an opinion as to how the Air Force runs a bomber base, nor should the Air Force prescribe to the Army Airborne how and when it can train its paratroopers. In the last few months we have engaged all levels of leadership in the XVIII Airborne Corps from commanding generals to first sergeants. To a man, we have received the same message—the Corps’ airborne qualifications are degraded, units are not getting the support they require. As you are aware, Air Mobility Command’s own plan shows they cannot meet Fort Bragg’s daily training requirements, if the indigenous Air Force lift presence disappears. This is not an adversarial protest. We appreciate that the supporting and supported dynamic has been inverted and believe routine service comity is no longer acceptable when the readiness of America’s airborne forcible entry capability is affected. We respectfully ask that you take a detailed look at the facts and figures regarding Air Force support to airborne training at Fort Bragg and, if they demonstrate the threat to readiness we have seen, engage the Department of the Air Force as to the reasons why they are not living up to their commitments. We are not seeking confrontation; our goal remains, from day one, that United States’ airborne forces are primed and ready and impediments to their readiness are vigorously opposed. Sincerely, Richard BurrU.S. Senator Thom TillisU.S. Senator
09.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee held a legislative meeting to consider several bills introduced to help improve our bureaucratically flawed VA system and prioritize the men and women who have served our nation. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), questioned panelists on their support for two bills he has introduced to increase educational opportunities for our veterans: S. 1460, co-sponsored by Tillis and Senator Brown (D-OH), the Fry Scholarship Enhancement Act of 2015, would authorize Yellow Ribbon program eligibility for dependents receiving Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits under the Fry scholarship. S. 1938, co-sponsored by Tillis and Senator Blumenthal (D-CT), the Career Ready Student Veterans Act, would require that programs of education designed to prepare students for licensure or certification by a state, or for employment subject to the approval of a state board or agency, must meet any state curriculum requirements or be approved or licensed by the appropriate state entity in order for the course to be approved for VA educational benefits. Following the proceeding, Senator Tillis released the following statement: “It’s critical we provide our young veterans and their families with additional educational opportunities to succeed in the civilian workforce. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on the passage of these bills and finding additional solutions that move our nation closer to fulfilling our obligation to providing veterans with the quality education and health care they deserve.” Watch Tillis’ comments and questions to the committee panel here:
09.16.2015	Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today issued the following statement on the filibuster of a vote of disapproval of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, noting that the President has still failed to submit side agreements to Congress, which he is required to do by law: “Earlier this year, both parties came together to reach a near-unanimous consensus that because any nuclear deal with Iran would have such far-reaching national security implications, it deserved a full debate and a vote in Congress. This resulted in the passage of The Iran Nuclear Review Act, which was signed into law by President Obama. “Unfortunately, the final agreement reached between the P5+1 powers and Iran is fundamentally flawed. It will ultimately pave Iran’s path toward a nuclear weapon, free billions of dollars in assets that can be used to fund Iran’s global terror network, and jeopardize the safety and security of the United States, Israel and our allies in the Middle East. This is the same Iranian regime led by a ‘Supreme Leader’ who last week declared that Israel will not exist in 25 years and once again referred to the United States as ‘the great Satan.’ “It is a sad state of affairs when President Obama and Senate Democratic leaders resort to a hyper-partisan effort to stifle debate and deny the American people their promised opportunity to have the final say on the Iran nuclear deal through their duly-elected representatives. The least they can do now is support an amendment that makes the lifting of economic sanctions on Iran contingent on the Iranian regime’s release of the innocent Americans they are unjustly imprisoning, as well as their recognition of Israel’s right to exist.” “The American people should know that while President Obama claims tomorrow is the deadline for Congress to act on his deal with Iran, the fact is the Iran Nuclear Review Act he signed into law requires him to submit all side agreements to Congress before the 60-day review period begins, which he has failed to do. Once the President follows the statute and submits the side agreements to Congress, I look forward to seeing another vote on the Iran nuclear deal.”
09.11.2015	Today we remember the thousands of innocent lives that perished on September 11, 2001, and pray for the family members and friends who continue to bear the pain of their loss. The horrific tragedy was perpetrated by terrorists who sought to break our nation’s spirit and destroy the freedoms we cherish. Little did they know, their actions would instead shine a light on the courage and heroism of the American people, as well as the resilience of the American way of life. Fourteen years later, we still stand united as one to honor the memories of those we lost and to support the brave men and women who risk their lives every day to keep our nation safe.
09.04.2015	Senator Tillis is spending the next couple of weeks traveling across North Carolina, from Manteo to Murphy. If you’re interested in his whereabouts, check out this schedule for daily updates. Friday, September 4, 2015 – Senator Tillis to visit Henderson County Attend Hendersonville Apple Festival Opening Ceremony Thursday, September 3, 2015 – Senator Tillis to visit Buncombe County and Cherokee County Tour Thermo Fisher Scientific Tour Cherokee Casino Tour Industrial Opportunities, Inc. Wednesday, September 2, 2015 – Senator Tillis to visit Wake County Tour Pepsi Bottling Ventures Tour Ultra Electronics Tour IBM For Media: Wednesday's events are closed to the media. If you’re interested in meeting with the Senator, please contact Tillis’ press secretary, Meghan Burris, at Meghan_Burris@tillis.senate.gov. Tuesday, September 1, 2015 – Senator Tillis visited Forsyth County and Guilford County Toured Krispy Kreme Toured Cook Medical Inc. Toured the Moses H Cone Memorial Hospital Monday, August 31, 2015 – Senator Tillis visited Mecklenburg County Attended US Travel Association Roundtable at Mint Museum Attended USGLC event with General Conway Thursday, August 27, 2015 – Senator Tillis visited New Hanover County Toured Pharmaceutical Product Development (PPD) Visited Kids Making It Wednesday, August 26, 2015 – Senator Tillis visited Harnett County and Robeson County Tour Saab Barracuda LLC Tour Campbell Soup Tuesday, August 25, 2015 - Senator Tillis visited Bladen County and Robeson County Toured Smithfield’s Packing Company Inc. Toured Mountaire Farms Monday, August 24, 2015 – Senator Tillis visited Pasquotank County and Dare County Toured Elizabeth City Coast Guard Station Toured Bonner Bridge and Oregon Inlet Friday, August 21, 2015 – Senator Tillis visited Wake County and Durham County Attended the Raleigh Chamber of Commerce Pancakes and Politics Breakfast Toured WakeMed EKSO Bionics Toured Fidelity Investments Thursday, August 20, 2015 – Senator Tillis visited Guilford County and Wake County Attended Workforce Once-Stop Summit at NCWorks Career Center Toured Advance Community Health at Rock Quarry Road Family Medicine
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) is continuing his efforts to oppose a potential tobacco carve out in the Trans-Pacific Partnership, sending a letter yesterday to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman in which Tillis makes clear that any agricultural carve out would directly threaten the ratification of the trade pact. In recent days, Tillis has been meeting with his Senate colleagues, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, to share his concerns that a tobacco carve out would violate provisions contained in the trade promotional authority Congress granted to the President and would risk opening the door to choosing more “winners and losers” in future trade agreements. “…In my conversations with other Senators who would otherwise be inclined to support the TPP, I have emphasized the dangerous, precedent setting nature of a carve out and the fact that inclusion of such a term would run counter to the explicit instructions set forth in the TPA,” Senator Tillis wrote to Ambassador Froman. “A number of my colleagues share my view that the TPP can be a net positive in the long run. I am confident, however, that the path toward ratification will be significantly endangered if the administration or one of our trading partners impose their biases by targeting specific industries for exclusion.” Read Senator Tillis’ letter to Ambassador Froman here.
08.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) introduced legislation to limit use of GI Bill benefits to accredited educational programs that will provide the required licensure or proper training to pursue employment opportunities. The Career-Ready Student Veterans Act of 2015 would provide stronger consumer protection measures for veterans by prohibiting schools lacking appropriate programmatic accreditation from receiving GI Bill benefits. Veterans would be protected from wasting education benefits on educational programs that will not equip them for employment. Blumenthal said, “Only accredited school programs should receive GI benefits, because our nation’s heroes deserve the best, not the dregs, of American education. Federal funding for substandard programs is a disservice to veterans as well as taxpayers – and this safeguard is long overdue. Valid, approved education and training are necessary for veterans to have the right credentials required by employers. GI Bill benefits are essential for veterans to advance their skill training and translate their military experience into a civilian career. This bill protects veterans from slick pitches that lure them into squandering GI Bill benefits on worthless degrees from unaccredited education programs – helping them pursue legitimate education and employment opportunities.” “Our veterans risked their lives to protect our freedoms as Americans. This good-faith policy ensures they earn an education that will help them enter the civilian workforce and provide the opportunity to seek employment that will put them on a path toward a successful career,” said Senator Tillis. “I am proud to work with Senator Blumenthal to ensure GI Bill education benefits are put toward accredited continuing education programs. Our nation’s heroes deserve only the best.” Currently, some veterans use GI Bill benefits for education programs that do not adequately equip them for employment. Although a school may have institutional accreditation, it may lack appropriate programmatic accreditation or fail to meet state-specific criteria required for certification or licensure. When veterans use GI Bill benefits at unaccredited programs, they may face severely limited employment options or be precluded from job opportunities entirely. The programs at issue primarily include law, teaching, criminal justice, and numerous healthcare degrees, including nursing, psychology, medical assisting, dental assisting and surgical technology. Joining Blumenthal and Tillis as co-sponsors of the legislation are U.S. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Tom Carper (D-Del.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.). U.S. Representative Mark Takano (D-Calif.) has introduced companion legislation in the House. This legislation is supported by the Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), the Military Officers Association of American (MOAA), Student Veterans of America (SVA) and Veterans Education Success. More specifically the Career-Ready Student Veterans Act would: Modify the requirements for approval of courses using VA educational assistance by requiring that educational programs meet instructional curriculum licensure or certification requirements of the state. Require that programs are approved by the appropriate board or agency in a state if an occupation requires approval or licensure. Authorize the VA Secretary to waive this requirement only under limited, clearly defined circumstances. Full text of the legislation can be viewed here.
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) recently wrote to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter expressing concern over comments made by some Air Force senior leaders instructing commanders at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield to “open up the clearing house to undermine the personnel structure” of the 440th Airlift Wing. “If these comments are accurate, then someone appears to be playing games with the Congress, but more importantly with the lives of people who defend us,” Tillis wrote to Carter. “Mr. Secretary, as I have said before, this is not about the Air Force budget, it is about supporting America’s most decorated warriors – the real tip of the spear.” Tillis also called out Air Force leadership for its continued attempts to undermine the effectiveness of the 440th Airlift Wing despite of the clear wishes of Congress and the immeasurable value the 440th provides in training America’s rapid response forces. “It is my understanding that the senior leadership of Fort Bragg pointed out that airborne and special operations need an indigenous C-130 capability at Pope Field and that even with the remainder of the 440th Air Wing still in place, the Air Force cannot provide XVIII Airborne Corps and USASOC with what they need to train,” wrote Senator Tillis. “What is more disturbing is the lengths to which the Air Force has gone to make the departure of the 440th a fait accompli, regardless of the wishes of the Congress, or more importantly the needs of the ‘supported’ force – our paratroopers.” Senator Tillis has been leading the effort to save the 440th Airlift Wing, securing an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016 that requires the commanders of the XVIII Airborne Corps, 82nd Airborne Division and the United States Army Special Operations Command to certify that the removal of C-130Hs from Fort Bragg's Pope Airfield will not adversely impact the daily training requirements of airborne and special operations units. The Senate also passed an amendment, introduced by Senators Tillis and Richard Burr (R-NC), that would relocate nine previously upgraded C-130H aircraft to Pope Airfield in the event that the Air Force follows through on its plan to deactivate the 440th Airlift Wing. A House-Senate conference committee is currently working on a final version of the defense authorization legislation. Read Senator Tillis’ letter to Secretary Carter here.
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate passed a six-year highway bill that includes provisions previously introduced by Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) to amend the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 and designate the following North Carolina highways as high priority corridors: Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor from Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston, and Elizabeth City, North Carolina, to Norfolk, Virginia. U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison, and U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner to the Port at Morehead City. The designation of the highways would advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that will become part of the Interstate system once they are fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. “I am pleased that the Senate was able to pass a highway bill that would produce long-lasting benefits for North Carolina, including reduced traffic congestion, improved access to military bases, and increased investments in our state’s transportation and infrastructure,” said Senator Tillis. “I will continue to work across the aisle with my colleagues from North Carolina to ensure the Raleigh-Norfolk and US-70 corridors soon become part of the Interstate system.” “The Senate-passed long term highway bill is a win for all North Carolinians,” said Senator Burr. “The highway bill includes important provisions that are vital to our state's infrastructure, benefiting everyone who uses our roads and highways, and encourages economic expansion by connecting some of the east coast’s largest ports to North Carolina’s cities and towns. I will continue to work with Senator Tillis and my North Carolina House colleagues to ensure that the priorities important to North Carolina remain in the final version of the highway bill.” ###
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) took to the Senate floor to denounce the likely carveout of tobacco in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), and pledged to work hard against the ratification of the TPP if the carveout is contained in the final text of the agreement. Trade negotiators from the United States and the other TPP partner nations are currently in Hawaii this week to finalize the details of the trade pact. During his speech, Tillis warned that a tobacco carveout in the TPP would set a dangerous precedent for discriminating against entire industries in future trade agreements. “The current proposal in the TPP creates an entirely new precedent, a precedent that will no doubt become the norm for future trade agreements where the negotiators get to pick the winners and losers and American businesses will suffer as a result,” said Tillis. “Once we allow an entire sector to be treated unfairly in trade agreements, the question is, who’s next?” Tillis also noted that the trade promotion authority granted to President Obama last month stipulates that opportunities for U.S. agricultural exports must be “substantially equivalent to opportunities afforded foreign exports in U.S. markets,” which would prevent the exclusion of specific American agricultural commodities like tobacco. “I voted to give the President trade promotion authority to allow trade agreements like the TPP to move through Congress in a quick, orderly, and responsible process,” said Tillis. “I did not vote to give our negotiators the freedom to indiscriminately choose when fairness should be applied and when it should be ignored.” Tillis added, “I hope our trade negotiators will work hard to ensure that American values are upheld in the final agreement they bring before Congress. And that goes for language in the entire agreement – even that which appears in annexes and footnotes.”
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – At today’s Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter, Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew, Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey testified on how the Iran nuclear deal will affect the military balance in the Middle East. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) questioned Chairman Dempsey as to why the United States would have confidence in Iran to give up its nuclear ambitions when the regime is the world’s top state sponsor of terrorism and continues to threaten and make incendiary rhetoric toward the United States and its allies, even after the Administration reached a nuclear weapons deal with Iran. “Secretary Carter says he believes there is no reason Iran will change [their malign activities]. That’s the Iran terror network, that’s their increasing threat in terms of cyberterrorism, it’s their ballistic missile program, it’s their weapons trafficking,” said Senator Tillis. “And they’re going to continue to expand in the areas where they think they can. They’re people who have violated twenty-seven international agreements or treaties. They have violated some of the terms of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Some of that language is similar to the agreement that we have here today.”
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee held a hearing regarding the persistent homeless veterans population that continues to plague 40,000-45,000 of the men and women who served our nation in honor. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), attended the hearing, and after a discussion with panelists form the Veterans Health Administration, the VA National Center on Homelessness Among Veterans, and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, called for solutions to eliminate the current bureaucratic barriers to find both short- and long-term strategies to end veteran homelessness. After the hearing, Senator Tillis released the following statement: “Five years ago, the White House vowed to end veteran homelessness by the end of 2015, a promise that will undoubtedly be broken by the Obama Administration as officials estimate more than 40,000 homeless veterans at the end of 2014,” said Senator Tillis. “We need to address the constraints the Department of Veterans Affairs is facing and streamline its interaction with other agencies so we can get a faster rate of solutions to the homelessness problem. We also need to be mindful of the different approaches that are required to help homeless veterans in rural and urban areas.”
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor to discuss the Obama Administration’s nuclear agreement with Iran and why, despite President Obama’s assurances, the deal will be bad for the American people and will pave the way for Iran to become a nuclear power in the near future. Senator Tillis reiterated that the President is more focused on his legacy than what is best for the American people, as confirmed by the multiple concessions made by the United States. With the vote on the Iran deal looming, the Senator called on Congress to closely examine why the United States would enter into an agreement with Iran when the regime can continue to fund their global terror network and inch closer toward a nuclear bomb. “Iran is the chief sponsor of global terrorism and they have never stepped back from their desire to obliterate the United States and one of our closest allies Israel, even after an agreement was reached. The old American alliances are collapsing, and the only answer the Administration seems to have is a clear path to Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon,” Senator Tillis said. ###
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, following the vote by the United Nations Security Council to pave the way to lift economic sanctions on Iran, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “The Obama administration has violated the public trust by giving Iran the green light to pursue its nuclear weapon ambitions and then rushing to the United Nations to lift economic sanctions on Iran before even bothering to seek the approval of Congress. It is abundantly clear that President Obama never intended to allow the elected representatives of the American people to have a voice on his bad deal with Iran, which grants one costly concession after another and ignores 40 years of open hostility from the Iranian regime. The Obama administration’s outrageous move to sidestep the American public means that even if Congress votes to block the deal, sanction relief will still proceed, giving the Iranian mullahs tens of billions of dollars they can use to continue to fund their global terror network and threaten the safety and security of the United States, Israel, and the rest of the world.” ###
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced the opening of a new regional office in High Point, NC, and the relocation of his Charlotte, NC, office. The state office expansion is part of Senator Tillis’ ongoing effort to broaden the range of services offered by his staff to North Carolinians in every corner of the state. The new High Point office will serve the integral North Carolina Triad region, and the more centrally located Charlotte office will continue to provide a high standard of constituent services to residents of the greater metro area. The new High Point and Charlotte offices are in addition to the Senator’s state offices in Raleigh and Greenville. Tillis plans to open an office in Western North Carolina in the near future. Tillis encourages constituents to meet with members of his state staff and utilize his in-state offices to help resolve any issues that they might experience when dealing with the federal agencies and the government. “I am holding myself responsible to ensure all constituent needs are met and have selected qualified staff in North Carolina and Washington who will work with constituents each and every day,” said Senator Tillis. “Our hard-working staff stands ready and willing to assist with any issue.”
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, after the U.S. Senate passed the Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA) 81-17, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement: “Today’s passage of the bipartisan Every Child Achieves Act (ECAA) sends a clear message that it’s time to return our classrooms to those who know our students best – our teachers, local school boards, and parents. Long overdue, this legislation scales back No Child Left Behind and restores educational responsibility and accountability to the states, ridding curriculum of the hands of Washington bureaucrats. The ECAA is a step in the right direction for our children in North Carolina and across the country, and is yet another example of Republicans and Democrats working together to find common ground and deliver results for the American people.” ###
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement in response to the announcement of the Obama Administration’s nuclear agreement with Iran: “President Obama has staked his legacy on reaching any deal with Iran without any regard for how dangerous and destabilizing the final accord will be for the United States, Israel, the Middle East, and the rest of the world. The President has turned his back on decades of assurances from previous administrations of both parties that Iran would not acquire nuclear weapons. He has willfully ignored forty years of hostility from Tehran. “This deal appears to be a complete capitulation to the Iranian regime, paving the path for Iran to become a nuclear power in the foreseeable future. The President broke his promises to the American people by offering concession after concession: no snap inspections, no limits on Iran’s ballistic-missile force, no resolution of Iran’s weaponization activities, no dismantling of Iran’s global terror network, and no release of the American citizens being held captive in Iran’s prisons. Make no mistake, the lasting legacy will be the birth of a Middle East nuclear arms race, plunging the region into further instability and chaos. “Democrats and Republicans share grave concerns over this bad deal, and Congress now has a responsibility to do everything it can to stop it from being implemented.” ###
07.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Fayetteville Observer reported that the Air Force is delaying its plans to deactivate Fort Bragg’s 440th Airlift Wing for one year as a result of a sustained push by North Carolina’s Congressional delegation to stop the deactivation, a short-sighted decision that would negatively impact America’s overall combat readiness and national security. Tillis has noted the emphasis on the effort to save the 440th Airlift Wing has always been focused on what is best for America’s tip of the spear, Fort Bragg, and not the strategically flawed budget decisions made by the Pentagon. Tillis has led the effort to save the 440th Airlift Wing, securing an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of Fiscal Year 2016 that requires the commanders of the XVIII Airborne Corps, 82nd Airborne Division and the United States Army Special Operations Command to certify that the removal of C-130Hs from Fort Bragg's Pope Airfield will not adversely impact the daily training requirements of airborne and special operations units. If the commanders do not certify the removal, then the C-130Hs will remain at Pope Airfield. The Senate also passed another Tillis amendment which would relocate nine previously upgraded C-130H aircraft to Pope Airfield in the event that the Air Force follows through on its plan to deactivate the 440th Airlift Wing by removing six older C-130Hs presently stationed at Pope Airfield. “I’m pleased the Air Force has decided to delay the deactivation of the 440th Airlift Wing, as this decision should be more than a budget issue – it is critical for the current and future security of our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “Keeping the 440th Airlift Wing active for an additional year is the direct result of a concerted effort of North Carolina’s Congressional delegation to ensure that bureaucrats do not negatively hamper America’s combat readiness. I will continue to work with my colleagues to help save the 440th Airlift Wing and protect the C-130H presence at Pope Airfield.” ###
07.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) during a Senate Agriculture Committee hearing questioned members of the U.S. Department of Agriculture on the Avian Influenza Epidemic, where he stressed the detrimental impact of the recently detected H5NI strain of avian influenza for America’s turkey and egg industries. Iowa and Minnesota experienced major outbreaks of the H5N1 strain of avian influenza this past winter, but the outbreak ultimately spread to 16 different states. Losses to the turkey industry and the egg industry represent roughly 3 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of total U.S. production. While North Carolina has not yet experienced an outbreak of this severe strain of avian influenza, Tillis underscored the need to get ahead of the problem to protect our farmers and integrators from financial loss, prevent job cut backs and to keep costs low for consumers. “We also need to focus on the economic impact and the job impact,” said Tillis. “Minnesota and Iowa over the past year saw somewhere around $1.6 billion in economic impact…For every job loss as a processor, we lose about two more jobs in the supply chain, so these communities are very hard hit by this.” ###
07.02.2015	ASHEVILLE, NC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) toured the Asheville Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) where he met with both executive leadership and patients. The tour comes as the next phase in his fact-finding mission to develop a better understanding of best practices and ultimate failures within the VA facilities across the state of North Carolina. The Senator has previously visited the Fayetteville, Durham and Salisbury VAMCs. In Asheville, Tillis toured the specialty clinic, inpatient unit, vascular and cardiothoracic unit, and participated in several discussions focused on mental health and plans for expanding the medical center. Tillis spoke on the unacceptable wait times and bureaucratic failures that are continuing to plague patients and called for increased accountability to ensure our veterans receive high quality health care. “During my time spent at the Asheville VA Medical Center, it became even more apparent to me that the bureaucratic barriers within the VA system must be addressed and in a timely manner. When I took my oath as U.S. Senator, I vowed I would do what I could to ensure we make America great again. Unfortunately, our failed VA system is keeping us from this goal at the expense of the brave men and women who have served our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “I will continue to work across the aisle to fix the current failures at the VA and promote best practices within the VA system that will increase our veterans’ access to the high quality health care they need and deserve.” A member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, in April, Tillis sent a number of recommendations to VA Secretary Robert McDonald and was tasked by Committee Chairman Johnny Isakson to spearhead a collaborative effort, working directly with the VA rethink the Department’s long-term strategy and identify more efficient practices. To move forward on the initial steps of this effort, Tillis sat down with Secretary McDonald earlier this month where they discussed Tillis’ recommendations, which include overhauling the VA’s unnecessary layers of bureaucracy, keeping VA clinics open longer, getting new healthcare providers into the VA system faster, and expanding the use of sharing agreements with academic institutions. Earlier this year, Tillis co-sponsored the Prioritizing Veterans' Access to Mental Health Care Act, which prioritizes access to mental health care by providing incentives to hire more mental health care professionals at the VA, and the Clay Hunt SAV Act, which directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct annual evaluations of mental health care and suicide prevention programs, and was signed into law by President Obama in February. ###
06.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced, “The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act.” This legislation is vital to restoring justice to the victims of this heinous government run program. The bill ensures these victims receive restitution payments without conflicting with any other programs. The legislation is an effort to further assist living victims receiving payments from any current or future state eugenics compensation program by excluding the compensation payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal public benefits. “We’ve identified some two hundred North Carolinians who were forcibly sterilized and we’ve set aside funding to provide restitution to them for the wrong that was done to them by the state. Now, since I’ve been up in the U.S Senate we’ve identified one possible problem, or a challenge that we want to eliminate for the victims as they receive their restitution payments,” said Senator Tillis. “The payments themselves could actually cause them not to qualify for certain programs and we think that’s wrong. That’s just victimizing these victims once again. So I’ve worked with members of the Senate, both sides of the aisle, to file a bill that will prevent that from occurring. I think it is the right thing to do and I encourage other states to follow North Carolina’s lead.” Watch here as Senator Tillis explains the legislation in more detail and why he’s working to correct a past wrong of the state.
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Supreme Court released its decision on King v. Burwell: “The President’s health care law has been fundamentally flawed from the beginning, causing premiums to skyrocket and forcing millions of hardworking Americans to lose the very same health insurance plans they were promised they could keep. Regardless of the Supreme Court’s ruling today, the President’s health care law is beyond repair and I remain committed to finding and implementing a solution. Both parties need to come together to fix our broken health care system once and for all by making it more affordable, accountable, and patient focused, and giving families more freedom and choice when it comes to making decisions that work best for them.” ###
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tom Carper (D-DE) introduced “The Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act,” which would exclude payments from state eugenics compensation programs from consideration in determining federal benefits. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Mark Warner (D-VA) are original co-sponsors of the legislation. American eugenics and compulsory sterilization laws were implemented by 33 states in the early 20th century, and led to the forced sterilization of more than 60,000 citizens, often without their knowledge. Unmarried women, African-Americans, and children from poor families were among the groups specifically targeted by certain state governments. In 2013, North Carolina, which was considered to have had the most aggressive state-run eugenics program, became the first state in the nation to pass legislation to create a state fund to compensate the living victims of the state-run forced sterilization program. As of January 2015, 220 North Carolina victims have been awarded approximately $20,000 each. If no further living victims were identified by the end of June 2014, the remaining money in the state fund would be awarded pro-rata to the victims who have been identified, bringing the total compensation of the 220 victims to approximately $45,500 each. Earlier this year, Virginia became the second state to pass legislation compensating the victims of a state-run eugenics program. Virginia will award $25,000 to each individual who was involuntarily sterilized and is still alive as of February 1, 2015. The legislation introduced by Senators Tillis and Carper aims to further assist living victims receiving payments from any current or future state eugenics compensation program by excluding the compensation payments from being used in determining eligibility for, or the amount of, federal public benefits such as Medicaid, Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program, Supplemental Security Income, SSI-Disabled, etc. “The implementation of state-run eugenics and sterilization programs represent a dark and shameful chapter in our nation’s history,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “While North Carolina and Virginia have recently created state compensation programs to help victims recover from horrible wrongs that have been perpetrated against them in the past, federal laws can unintentionally punish victims who receive eugenics compensation by preventing them from receiving federal benefits. The bipartisan legislation introduced will ensure that will not happen. None of this would be possible without my friend and former colleague, state Rep. Larry Womble, who provided incredible leadership in the decades-long fight for justice for the living victims of North Carolina’s eugenics program.” “People who’ve been subjected to horrifying sterilization practices as a result of misguided eugenics programs have already had to live with unfathomable loss and hardship,” said Senator Tom Carper. “These individuals shouldn’t be penalized for compensation funds that they have received for their suffering, especially because it can never repair the pain they’ve had to endure. I’m proud to join Senator Tillis and a bipartisan group of our colleagues in this important effort to ensure that no person loses important federal benefits because they received this type of compensation.” “This sickening time in North Carolina’s history may be over, but there are still individuals suffering the consequences of these terrible acts,” said Senator Richard Burr. “While North Carolina took action to acknowledge these sins, we know that survivors are still subject to unfair treatment brought on by no action of their own. Ensuring that these Americans remain eligible for federal benefits in addition to state compensation through this bipartisan compensation appears to be the least we can do.” "In robbing individuals of their basic human rights and degrading entire communities, forced sterilizations and state-run eugenics programs represent one of the darkest episodes of our country’s past, and I am pleased that states like Virginia have begun to compensate victims of these crimes,” said Senator Tim Kaine. “I am proud to co-sponsor this legislation because victims of such atrocities deserve recompense without becoming ineligible for federal benefits. The federal government must do all that it can to aid efforts to correct injustices.” “This shameful period in Virginia’s history is thankfully in the past, but there are still living victims who are suffering from its dark legacy,” said Senator Mark Warner. “Receiving just compensation for this horrible injustice should not unintentionally prevent victims from receiving federal assistance they’re entitled to.” ###
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor to discuss the ever-failing Affordable Care Act and why President Obama’s current “one-size-fits-all” approach is simply not affordable and will not help deliver a health care system that works for everyone. Senator Tillis reiterated the need for health care to be decided upon and implemented at the state level, providing local, accountable and affordable coverage. With the King V. Burwell Supreme Court ruling looming, the Senator called for a fix to health care once and for all and in a manner that gives patients more control and better quality of care. “I’m not interested in litigating this. I’m not an attorney, I’m a businessman. I’ll leave the lawyering to others. When I look at King V. Burwell, I don’t see a legal battle, I see an opportunity. It may sound trite, but I see hope,” said Senator Tillis. “The court may give us the chance of a generation. The chance to fix health care once and for all. We can’t fix ObamaCare, but we can fix health care.” Watch the Senator’s full floor speech here:
06.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke with Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs Michele Thoren Bond regarding the State Department’s recent computer system failure, which has resulted in the State Department’s inability to issue new visas worldwide. Tillis received a commitment from Secretary Bond that H-2A and H-2B visas will be prioritized when the computer system is fully functional once again, in an effort to provide immediate relief to North Carolina businesses that rely on the visa programs. In the interim, the State Department is manually processing as many H-2A and H-2B visas as possible. H-2A and H-2B visas are vital to North Carolina’s agriculture and seafood industries, and North Carolina employs more H-2A workers than any state in the nation. “After working closely with North Carolina businesses to reverse the months-long Department of Homeland Security’s freeze on new visas, I learned that the State Department was unable to process the workers seeking to use those visas because of a computer glitch,” said Senator Tillis. “I am pleased with the responsiveness of the State Department and their commitment to resolve this issue as soon as possible, potentially as soon as today. Having met with hardworking North Carolina small business owners who depend on the H-2A and H-2B visa programs, I know how critical the visas are in sustaining their businesses, keeping North Carolinians employed, and driving our state economy.” ###
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded the U.S. Senate for passing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for fiscal year 2016, 71-25. The passage of the NDAA is vital to the security of our nation, ensuring men and women in uniform are properly trained, equipped, and ready to defend our freedoms at a moment’s notice. Last week, the Senate voted to include Senator Tillis’ amendment to the NDAA that will not only save, but increase the C-130 presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield in North Carolina. The amendment is a direct answer to the Department of Defense and Air Force’s strategically flawed plan to completely dismantle the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield, the busiest airfield in the world for tactical aircraft training. “I am pleased my colleagues came together to pass this vital piece of legislation, which included my amendment to save the C-130 presence at Fort Bragg. Our men and women in uniform risk their lives each day and as we face increasing national security threats, both foreign and domestic, our troops need access to the top resources and tools available,” said Senator Tillis. “While passage of the NDAA is a firm promise to our servicemembers, I now look forward to working with my friends across the aisle to quickly work through the appropriations process.” ###
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) delivered testimony to the National Commission on the Future of the Army in Fayetteville, NC, which outlined the severe risks of the Obama Administration’s proposed budget cuts to our Armed Forces, including severe cuts to Army end strength. While Tillis applauded the commission for coming to Fayetteville – the largest and most important post for the U.S. Army – he noted that as the nation faces threats from Islamic extremists, we must ensure our Armed Forces are prepared to react at a moment’s notice. Tillis urged the Commission to rethink the balance of forces within the Army so that it can continue to be flexible and lethal. The balance requires not only the light and specialized forces at Fort Bragg, but the traditional heavy punch of the Army’s armored and aviation elements. Soldiers from Fort Bragg are deployed to more than 90 countries and are essential to defeating the extensive threats America faces as they are most often the first in missions and last out. Tillis also addressed the effect that budget and benefit cuts are having on young soldiers and their families, including moves to degrade traditional commissary benefits, and lower the allowances troops receive for housing. Making cuts to the Army’s force size, response training, and pay and benefits is a strategically flawed decision jeopardizing our national security while deprioritizing the quality of life for our soldiers. Tillis stressed the need to ensure our troops are receiving the most rigorous training for both irregular and conventional missions with modernized equipment, allowing the United States Army to once again be a leading force to be reckoned with, capable of any mission. As the Obama Administration cuts our military readiness to levels we have not seen since World War II, Tillis pledged to work with the Commission as it develops strategies for the Army’s future. Following the testimony, Senator Tillis released the following statement: “I want to thank the Commission for listening to my concerns and their commitment to ensuring the long-term success of our Army at Fort Bragg. We need to once again secure America’s military dominance on the international stage by adequately funding, training, and equipping our Armed Forces. The Administration’s willingness to risk our national security preparedness through budget cuts is not only unnecessary, but reckless. It is time we prioritize our soldiers’ training, benefits and quality of life if we want to prioritize the security of our great nation.” ###
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) Robert McDonald, where they discussed working together to create a long-term strategic vision for the VA and help shepherd legislation that will make it easier to reform the VA to make it more efficient and better serve our nation’s veterans. The meeting today came in response to a letter Senator Tillis sent Secretary McDonald in April outlining preliminary recommendations based on best business practices to improve the delivery of care at the VA. Tillis’ recommendations include clawing back unnecessary layers of bureaucracy at the VA, keeping VA facilities open longer to serve more veterans more quickly, getting new health care providers qualified into the VA system faster, exploring the use of urgent care, expanding sharing agreements with medical and academic institutions, and taking steps to improve staff morale and performance at VA facilities. Senator Tillis and Secretary McDonald, a former soldier stationed at Fort Bragg, both have extensive experience with helping manage large and complex organizations in the private sector. Tillis served as a top-level executive at PricewaterhouseCoopers and IBM, where he consulted major businesses and helped them implement long-term transformation institutional strategies. McDonald was the widely respected President and CEO of Proctor & Gamble prior to his nomination as Secretary of Veterans Affairs. “The VA system faces unacceptable and persistent problems, and Secretary McDonald and I agree that the VA is in desperate need of a long-term strategic roadmap that completely rethinks the way the VA delivers care to the brave men and women who have served our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “A collaborative effort between veterans, the VA, Congress, and leaders from our outstanding medical and business communities can help play a key role in implementing a strategic vision to make the VA more efficient and provide our veterans with the timely, quality care they deserve.”
06.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following weeks of pressure from Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and a bipartisan group of Senators, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) finally relented and announced the release of an additional 3,000-5,000 H-2B visas, which are vital to the survival of North Carolina’s seafood industry. Senator Tillis repeatedly called on the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to explain why the H-2B visa cap was reached so soon in comparison to previous years, and called on DHS to conduct an audit to determine whether the correct number of H-2B visas was issued. Last week, Tillis toured Pamlico Packing Company in Grantsboro, where he personally met with North Carolina seafood business owners who have been struggling as a result of DHS’ error in failing to provide H-2B visas during the seafood industry’s peak season. “Today's announcement that USCIS will release additional H-2B visas for our seasonal workers is the result of an extensive bipartisan effort to ensure our coastal seafood industry remains open for business and that American jobs that sustain the industry will not suffer,” said Senator Tillis. “While it's unfortunate that many North Carolina seafood businesses will be getting a later start to their season than normal as result of the H-2B crisis, today's announcement will lessen the risk that these hardworking businesses will be forced to close their doors, and will also lessen the overall economic toll on our coastal communities. After months of pressure from my office, I am glad that DHS has finally heeded our calls to help protect North Carolina's small businesses and workers.” ###
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate passed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016 introduced by Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) that will not only save, but increase the C-130 presence at Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield. The amendment is a direct answer to the Department of Defense and Air Force’s strategically-flawed plan to completely dismantle the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield, the busiest airfield in the world for the performance of training using tactical aircraft. Completely removing all C-130H aircraft from Fort Bragg would create unnecessary risks to the readiness of airborne units that are critical to our national security, essentially taking the “air” out of “airborne.” Tillis’ amendment, co-sponsored by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Jim Inhofe (R-OK), will effectively relocate nine previously upgraded C-130H aircraft to Pope Airfield at Fort Bragg to directly support the daily training and contingency requirements of the XVIII Airborne Corps, 82nd Airborne Division and the United States Army Special Operations Command. The nine upgraded C-130Hs would replace the six older C-130Hs presently stationed at Pope Airfield that the Air Force intends to permanently remove. Tillis’ plan to save, increase, and improve the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg also makes strong fiscal sense. Despite spending $2.3 billion over the last several years to upgrade aircraft as part of the C-130 AMP (Avionics Modernization Program), the Air Force has made it clear it still intends to mothball the upgraded aircraft. Tillis’ plan makes use of five C-130H AMP equipped aircraft that would have been flown to the bone yard at a loss to taxpayers of an additional $300 million. Another four C-130Hs still to be upgraded with previously purchased AMP installation kits would also be transferred to Fort Bragg. For months, Senator Tillis has been leading the fight to stop the Air Force’s short-sighted decision to remove all the C-130Hs from Pope Airfield that support the nation’s global airborne response and special operations units. Tillis repeatedly pressured the Air Force and Pentagon to provide information and metrics regarding the airborne training requirements for Fort Bragg’s troops and the Air Force’s strategic justification for eliminating the support for such training by removing the C-130Hs from Pope Airfield. Air Force officials have previously admitted that they did not consult with the Army and Fort Bragg commanders before making their decision to deactivate the 440th Airlift Wing. Fort Bragg commander Lt. Gen. Joseph Anderson publicly came out against the decision earlier this year, stating, “Of all places in the world, why would we take that capability away from Fort Bragg?” Tillis’ amendment ensures that Fort Bragg will be able to not only keep, but increase its airborne training capability. “I am pleased that my Senate colleagues and I found a solution that would not only save, but increase and improve the C-130H presence at Fort Bragg, effectively stopping the Air Force leadership’s short-sighted and strategically flawed plan to remove all C-130Hs from Pope Airfield,” said Senator Tillis. “Most importantly, this amendment ensures that the brave men and women of America’s global response force will continue to be trained, equipped, and ready to defend our nation at a moment’s notice.” ###
05.27.2015	CHAPEL HILL, N.C – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) visited the UNC Genetic Medicine Building to discuss the recently announced public-private partnership between UNC and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to create an HIV Cure Center and a jointly owned company, Qura Therapeutics, dedicated to discovering a cure for HIV/AIDS. During his visit, Senator Tillis toured UNC’s HIV/AIDS research labs, participated in a roundtable discussion with UNC and GSK researchers, and held a meeting with UNC-Chapel Hill Chancellor Carol Folt to discuss the UNC-GSK public-private partnership. GSK has pledged to invest $20 million over 5 years to launch the HIV Cure Center, which will be built on the UNC-Chapel Hill campus. In a testament to UNC’s position as a leader in the global fight to cure HIV/AIDS, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) awarded UNC with $40 million last year for a clinical trials unit for HIV/AIDS treatment, prevention, and research. “It is exciting that the cure for HIV/AIDS could very well be discovered in North Carolina with the help of UNC’s extraordinary medical research team and state-of-the-art lab facilities, and GSK’s proven leadership on HIV research and therapies,” said Senator Tillis. “This innovative public-private partnership represents the future, a new market-based approach for biomedical research and industry to team up to not only treat diseases, but eradicate them.” ###
05.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), visited Gaston County, North Carolina, where he spoke to military servicemembers, veterans and their families during a Memorial Day service, thanking them for their commitment to the United States while honoring our fallen heroes. Following the service, Tillis released the following statement: “Our military servicemembers wake up each morning ready to defend our freedoms at all costs. We will never be able to repay the debt of gratitude we owe to the courageous men and women who make the ultimate sacrifice. We must do everything we can to fulfill our moral responsibility to help care for the families of our fallen heroes, who bear the pain of living each day without their loved ones. North Carolina is a state blessed with a storied military tradition, and the greatest honor I have had as Senator is meeting with our brave servicemembers and veterans and personally thanking them for their incredible devotion and love for our country.”
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) spoke on the Senate floor expressing his frustration with the Department of Homeland Security’s unresponsiveness as North Carolina seafood companies have been unable to obtain enough H-2B workers to keep their processing facilities operational while on the brink of peak season. In addition to penning a bipartisan letter to DHS, Senator Tillis has actively reached out to the Administration for several weeks seeking an explanation as to why the cap for H-2B visas was reached unusually sooner than in previous years. The H-2B crisis will lead to the damage of coastal small businesses and local economies, and is already being felt by North Carolina seafood processors as they prepare for the season without workers. Seafood processors in North Carolina and other coastal states depend on the H-2B program to sustain their businesses and the current crisis they face is not only inexplicable, but avoidable. “We literally have jobs that have been created by people like Don Cross and his brother in Grantsboro, North Carolina, and they simply can't find workers to do those jobs. It's going to ruin their business and it's unacceptable. These are jobs these folks have created that can't be filled. “I think DHS is playing games with the numbers and I demand answers. DHS seems eager to help the illegal [immigrant] population get acclimated but doesn’t seem to place a priority on American businesses that need these people to come and work in our seafood processing facilities – not only in North Carolina like Don Cross' packing company but packing companies across the coast.”
05.18.2015	CHARLOTTE, NC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) toured Patterson Farm in Rowan County to learn more about local agriculture’s involvement in school meals and visited Tuckaseegee Elementary School in Charlotte to receive input from students and administrators on school nutrition programs. The visits were part of a fact-finding mission to learn about the best ways our agriculture communities can work with our local schools to improve childhood nutrition. After the visits, Senator Tillis released the following statement: “When addressing the issues and needs of proper childhood nutrition, we should look to parents, students, and cafeteria staff in our schools, not bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. While big government nutrition programs are well-intentioned, they’re lacking flexibility and being forced upon our schools at the local level in a manner that’s simply counterproductive. Children are throwing away their food and going home hungry, which is a problem that should be nonexistent. “Today I saw first-hand how North Carolina is a true leader in farm-to-school programs, but there’s still a clear need to implement commonsense regulatory reform that allows for more flexibility in the schools, while better utilizing our agriculture communities. In addition to reforms, it will be imperative to study best practices and replicate them across the country to ensure our children are receiving nutritious foods that meet sensible health and food safety standards. After meeting with students and receiving their input on school lunches, it’s abundantly clear that fresher, more appetizing foods will help prevent empty stomachs and provide our children with the nutrition they need to do well in school.” Below are several photos from the Senator’s visit to Patterson Farm and Tuckaseegee Elementary School. Additional photos can be found here. Senator Tillis meets with students at Tuckaseegee Elementary School in Charlotte, NC Senator Tillis meets with cafeteria staff at Tuckaseegee Elementary School in Charlotte, NC Senator Tillis and North Carolina Agriculture Commissioner Steve Troxler meet with Patterson Farm Proprietors, Randall and Doug Patterson, in Rowan County, NC Senator Tillis and Commissioner Troxler tour the fields of Patterson Farm in Rowan County, NC
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced that he has successfully secured an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) of 2016 that requires the commanders of the XVIII Airborne Corps, 82nd Airborne Division and the United States Army Special Operations Command to certify that the removal of C-130Hs from Fort Bragg’s Pope Airfield will not adversely impact the daily training requirements of airborne and special operations units. If the commanders do not certify the removal, then the C-130Hs will remain at Pope Airfield. The amendment, which unanimously passed in the Senate Armed Services Committee today, limits the use of funds for the transfer of C-130H aircraft for 90 days following the passage of the NDAA. It also mandates that the Air Force maintain dedicated C-130H aircraft to support the daily training requirements of the XVIII Airborne Corps, 82nd Airborne Division and Army Special Operations Command at the manning level currently required to support the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield. For months, Tillis has repeatedly requested information from the Department of Defense regarding the training requirements for Pope Airfield, but has been unable to get answers from the Pentagon or Air Force. Tillis’ amendment, with the support of Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman John McCain, ensures that the combat leaders at Fort Bragg will have a final say on what they need to properly train their troops. Tillis will continue to work with the Senate Armed Services Committee members and other colleagues to explore other remedies, including additional measures when the full Senate addresses the NDAA bill later in the year, to stop the Air Force’s removal of C-130Hs from Pope Airfield. Air Force officials previously admitted that they did not consult with the Army and Fort Bragg leaders before making their decision to deactivate the 440th Airlift Wing. Earlier this year, Fort Bragg commander Lt. Gen. Joseph Anderson publicly came out against the deactivation, stating, “Of all places in the world, why would we take that capability away from Fort Bragg?” “I am pleased that my amendment to help block the deactivation of the 440th Airlift Wing received the unanimous support of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle,” said Senator Tillis. “It is absolutely vital that our combat leaders at Fort Bragg have a say in the Air Force’s short-sighted and strategically flawed decision to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing. I will continue to pursue any and all options that will help slow down and ultimately stop the removal of C-130Hs from Pope Airfield.” ###
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced The Road to Opportunity and Development (ROAD) Act of 2015. The bipartisan legislation amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991, designating the Raleigh-Norfolk Corridor as a future part of the interstate system, while creating opportunities for increased commerce and investment in infrastructure and jobs. Tillis’ Senate bill is co-sponsored by Senators Richard Burr (R-NC), Tim Kaine (D-VA) and Mark Warner (D-VA), and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) introduced a companion bill in the House. The ROAD Act of 2015 would designate the following as a high priority corridor: U.S. Route 64 from its intersection in Raleigh, North Carolina, through Rocky Mount, Williamston and Elizabeth City, to U.S. Route 17 at its intersection in Norfolk, Virginia The designation of these two highways as high priority corridors ensures the two portions of the roads will become part of the Interstate system once they’re fully built and upgraded to interstate standards. Such designation would easing traffic congestion among Norfolk, Raleigh and the North Carolina coast. “I am pleased to introduce yet another bipartisan bill that focuses on improving our state’s infrastructure, reducing traffic congestion, and supporting the creation of good-paying North Carolina jobs,” said Senator Tillis. “The ROAD Act will prove essential in enhancing interstate commerce between North Carolina and Virginia, and promoting economic growth for local communities along the Raleigh-Norfolk corridor.” “The ROAD Act will open up new opportunities in North Carolina,” said Senator Burr. “Legislation like this is vital to our state's infrastructure, benefiting all of those who use our roads and highways and encourages economic expansion by connecting some of the east coast’s largest ports to North Carolina’s cities and towns. I’m excited to see the possibilities the ROAD Act will open for all North Carolinians.” “This bill is a bipartisan step toward integrating the Hampton Roads region of Virginia with North Carolina’s Research Triangle,” said Senator Kaine. “Hampton Roads has so much to offer, including a skilled maritime workforce, top-tier academic institutions, a robust tourism sector, and one of the East Coast’s leading deepwater ports. The benefits of interstate highway service to Raleigh will benefit people and businesses in both states and strengthen regional commerce throughout the mid-Atlantic.” “I am proud to join Senator Kaine and our colleagues from North Carolina in introducing this bipartisan bill,” said Senator Warner. “Designating this corridor as part of the interstate system will help facilitate commerce, boost tourism and improve the quality of life in and around Norfolk and the entire Tidewater region.” The ROAD Act is the second piece of legislation Sen. Tillis and Rep. Butterfield have introduced to improve North Carolina’s infrastructure, after introducing the Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015 two weeks ago. Both bills will help to advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that promote economic development and enhance interstate commerce. ###
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sens. Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced legislation to ensure that veterans, students serving in the armed forces, and their qualifying dependents, can take full advantage of the federal education benefits they have earned for themselves and their families. The Veterans Priority Enrollment Act of 2015 allows veterans using their GI benefits to attain priority enrollment at four-year institutions so that they can finish their degrees before their benefits expire. The bill would not require colleges or universities to change their existing priority enrollment systems. U.S. Reps. Tim Ryan (D-OH-13) and Phil Roe (R-TN-1) will introduce companion legislation in the House. "I’m proud to join Senator Brown in a bipartisan effort to make sure that when our veterans return home, they have access to the quality college education they deserve through their courageous service to our nation," Tillis said. "Just as we invest in and train our men and women during their service, we must do so when they return to their communities," Brown said. "This bill would ensure that our nation’s veterans can take full advantage of the college education that they’ve earned." Because veterans have a limited amount of time before their GI Bill education benefits expire, priority enrollment policies – like those available to student athletes – would ensure veterans can complete their course work before funding runs out. Under the Post-9/11 GI Bill, benefits are limited to up to 36 months. If a student veteran is shut out of required course work prior to their benefits expiring he or she may not be able to attain a degree or could be forced to pay tuition and fees out of pocket. ###
05.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced he is co-sponsoring a bipartisan resolution to designate May 10 to May 16, 2015, as "National Police Week" and proclaim May 15 of each year as Peace Officers Memorial Day. The resolution honors 127 law enforcement officials across the nation who were recently killed in the line of duty, including Sergeant Jeffrey Wayne Greene of the Union County, NC, Sherriff’s Office, and Police Officer Alexander E. Thalmann of the New Bern, NC, Police Department. Sergeant Greene was a veteran of the U.S. Air Force and U.S. Marine Corps and served with the Union County Sherriff’s office for 10 years. Greene, age 54, was killed after a tractor-trailer overturned onto his cruiser. Officer Thalmann was a member of the U.S. Marine Corps and had only served with the New Bern Police Department for seven months. Thalmann, age 22, succumbed to a gunshot wound he sustained following a shootout with a suspect. "The service of North Carolina’s own Sergeant Greene and Officer Thalmann demonstrate the fact that America’s law enforcement officers are dedicated public servants who put their lives on the line to prevent crime and keep our streets safe," said Senator Tillis. "I am pleased to support the designation of National Police Week to honor our local law enforcement officers and recognize the dangers they face and the sacrifices they make to protect our local communities." ###
05.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the passage of the Iran Nuclear Review Act, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “While far from perfect, I voted for the Corker-Cardin bill because it is absolutely imperative that Congress has a final say in any deal the Obama Administration reaches with Iran, the same regime that has never backed away from its desire to destroy Israel and wage a proxy war against the United States around the world. The current nuclear framework agreement clears the path for Iran to become a nuclear state and continue to fund their global terror network, and I will do everything I can to stop a bad deal that threatens the safety and security of the United States and our allies.” Before the vote, Senator Tillis took the Senate floor to express his opposition to the Obama Administration’s nuclear framework agreement with Iran, criticizing the concessions that were made to Iran during negotiations.
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act, a bill to provide for the responsible management of the wild-horse population around Corolla, North Carolina and the Outer Banks. “The beauty of the Corolla horses draws people from across North Carolina and the country to witness these wild animals in their natural habitat,” said Senator Richard Burr. “They are one of our many natural state treasures and I am proud to introduce legislation that will provide for the preservation of these wild-roaming horses that have inhabited North Carolina for hundreds of years. Starting in 2011, I’ve made several efforts to ensure that our local communities have the tools they need to manage these herds without excessive bureaucratic involvement. I hope my colleagues will move swiftly to consider this legislation.” “A cherished part of our state’s history and an admired attraction, thousands of tourists visit North Carolina’s beaches each year to witness the majestic nature of the Corolla horses” said Senator Thom Tillis. “The legislation I’m introducing will take the necessary and proper steps in protecting the health and safety of the wild animals and their habitat, while encouraging continued tourism and economic investment for our local coastal communities.” The Corolla Wild Horses Protection Act would require the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the State of North Carolina, Currituck County and the Corolla Wild Horse Fund to craft a new management plan to care for the wild horses that inhabit the Outer Banks of North Carolina. The plan would allow the herd to grow to the size found by equine scientists to be necessary to maintain genetic viability – between 110 and 130 horses. The Corolla wild horses are indigenous to North Carolina and do not exist anywhere else in the world. Their lineage can be traced back to the arrival of Spanish explorers on the Outer Banks in the 16th century. They are Colonial Spanish mustangs that have survived in the wild for the last four centuries and now roam across Currituck County, North Carolina. This legislation is supported by The Humane Society and American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. ###
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. –During today’s Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing, Senator Tillis called on the Department of Veterans Affairs to completely rethink the way it approaches providing care for veterans and emphasized the need for a long-term enterprise transformation strategy that produces significant and sustainable improvements at VA facilities across the nation. Veterans’ Affairs Committee Chairman Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA), praised Tillis’ proposal as “an outstanding template to begin to get a game plan for responding and dealing with the recommendations of the GAO and the IG of the Department.” Chairman Isakson then asked Tillis to spearhead a collaborative effort with VA executives to rethink the Department’s long-term strategy and identify more efficient practices. Dr. Carolyn Clancy, Interim Undersecretary for Health at the VA, designated Dr. Karen Rasmussen, Director of the VA Management Review Service, to work directly with Senator Tillis. Tillis proposed making the effort bipartisan by teaming up with a Democratic Senator on the Veterans’ Affairs Committee. “Let’s sit down and come up with a different approach, something that really hasn’t been done on an enterprise basis in my estimation in any area of government,” said Senator Tillis. “Let’s look at each one of these enterprises, put them on a heat map, find out which ones we should be tackling and how we prioritize the other ones, so what we’re doing here at future committee hearings is talking about time to benefit and whether or not you reached your goals. “I think if we do that then we get away from this discussion that has been going on for years without substantial improvement and get to a truly transformed organization that will include VA facilities, hardworking people in Fayetteville, Durham, Salisbury, Asheville, and all across the country, and include a lot of the best practices that are already embedded at many of these facilities.” Last week, Senator Tillis sent VA Secretary Robert McDonald a preliminary series of recommendations to apply best business practices to the VA system to help ensure that veterans are receiving timely and quality care. Tillis’ recommendations include overhauling the VA’s unnecessary layers of bureaucracy, keeping VA clinics open longer, getting new healthcare providers into the VA system faster, and expanding the use of sharing agreements with academic institutions.
04.28.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, along with North Carolina senators Thom Tillis and Richard Burr, today introduced legislation prohibiting people with gang ties from receiving deferred deportation and other immigration benefits. The bill also makes gang members deportable and inadmissible for immigration purposes. “North Carolina is unfortunately all too familiar with the tragic consequences of the Obama administration’s failure to properly vet and subsequently deport known gang members who are in the country illegally. I am pleased to support commonsense legislation that promotes a zero tolerance policy toward gang members who are non-citizens of the United States, which in turn will remove violent criminals off our streets and help keep our communities safe,” Tillis said. “The circumstances around this bill are incredibly sad – four are dead following this administration’s inability to enforce their own ill-conceived executive order. If the President can’t take steps to ensure that Americans are safe from criminal gang members, then Congress must take preventative action. I hope that Congress will pass this law to ensure criminals cannot stay in this country, even under this President’s edict,” Burr said. “It’s unfortunate that an act of Congress is required to explicitly prevent the federal government from providing safe haven to criminal gang members, but it’s clear that the current policies and practices are not working. Just today, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said known membership in a criminal gang ‘should constitute as a disqualifier from DACA,’ yet an agency that he oversees has granted DACA to known criminals or criminal gang members at least 282 times. This legislation is designed to improve public safety by blocking gang members from receiving immigration benefits and relief from removal—something President Obama said he would do,” Grassley said. The Grassley-Tillis-Burr bill follows a recent acknowledgement by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that it wrongly granted deferred action for a known gang member who is now charged with four counts of 1st degree murder. Despite admitting that proper protocols were not followed, the agency did not affirm that it has a zero tolerance policy against criminal gang members. At a Senate Judiciary Committee oversight hearing, Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson confirmed that the breakdown occurred in the background check process, raising new questions about possible systemic failures by the USCIS to screen DACA applicants, among others. The Grassley-Tillis-Burr bill seeks to improve public safety by clarifying that members of criminal gangs are not eligible for DACA and should be placed in an expedited removal process. Specifically, the bill would: Make current and former members of a criminal gang inadmissible and deportable, Define gang in the same way under current criminal code, and further would allow the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Attorney General or the Secretary of State, to designate criminal gangs, Require mandatory detention of persons arrested by the Department of Homeland Security who are members of a criminal gang, Make criminal gang members ineligible for deferred action, and limits use of parole unless that gang member has provided assistance in a law enforcement matter and is needed in the United States to provide such assistance; and Expedite removal procedures for dangerous criminals, terrorists and gang members. In a 2014 speech, President Obama said his executive order would focus removals on people who have broken laws other than the nation’s immigration policies. “Felons, not families. Criminals, not children. Gang members, not a mom who’s working hard to provide for her kids,” Obama said regarding the administration’s priority for removals. ###
04.27.2015	IN CASE YOU MISSED IT: Tillis Offers Recommendations To VA Secretary To Improve Efficiency And Care At The VA Raleigh News & Observer: “North Carolina Republican U.S. Sen. Thom Tillis wrote to VA Secretary Robert McDonald on Thursday with some preliminary recommendations about how to use good business practices to improve the health care veterans receive. ‘You and I both come from the private sector,’ Tillis wrote. ‘We have run complex organizations that constantly required an infusion of new ideas and practices to make the enterprise viable.’ The letter noted that McDonald had asked Tillis for ideas about how to improve the agency’s business practices.” WSOC-Charlotte: “North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis sent a letter to the VA Secretary concerned about wait times. He said veterans are still waiting too long for doctor appointments despite recent reforms. Tillis proposed new ways to cut down backlogs from extending hours at clinics to new partnerships with private hospitals to relieve the burden.” TWC News: “Some of Tillis’ suggestions include keeping VA clinics longer, getting new healthcare providers into the VA system faster by implementing a new credentialing system and exploring the expanded use of urgent care.” Salisbury Post: “A comprehensive list of goals for the VA as part of a larger plan would be the best way, Tillis said in an interview, to ensure significant progress is made in improving the system. An improvement in wait times for an appointment and final outcomes from appointments are measures that Tillis said could be used to determine the VA’s progress…In an interview about the letter, Tillis said more money is particularly needed in states such as North Carolina, where the veteran population is growing. He continues by suggesting a flex-budgeting model to help account for changes in need and volume at VA medical centers.” WGHP-Greensboro: Tillis: “We’re going to hold them up to a standard to say exactly what they’re going to do, and exactly what timeframe they’re going to do it. Some of these problems are not going to be solved in 12 months or 18 months, there is going to be a series of things they’re going to have to do with their processes, with their people, and their technology to solve this problem long term.” WLOS-Asheville: “Senator Thom Tillis is asking the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to consider some new ideas to reduce the wait times for doctor visits. Tillis has been visiting VA hospitals across the state as a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee. He says his years in the private sector tell him that the VA needs to adopt some commonsense best business practices.”
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC) sent VA Secretary Robert McDonald a preliminary series of recommendations to apply best business practices to the VA system to make it more efficient and help ensure that veterans are receiving timely and quality care. Tillis’ recommendations are in-part based on what he has learned as a member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, his visits to VA facilities across North Carolina, input he has received from veterans and VA staff, review of the testimony and research of Duke Hospital's Office of Veterans Affairs, and his decades of experience in the private sector consulting complex and bureaucratic organizations. Earlier this month, Tillis visited VA Medical Centers in Fayetteville, Durham, and Salisbury, where he met with facility leaders to receive updates on wait times and the day to day and long-term challenges facing both veterans and health care providers. “After visiting VA medical facilities across North Carolina and consulting with veterans and VA staff, it’s clear that we can make the VA system more efficient and improve the delivery of care by implementing commonsense reforms based on sound business principles,” said Senator Tillis. “Fixing such a big and broken bureaucracy of the VA’s magnitude will not be quick, nor easy, but we owe it to the brave men and women who have served our nation to pursue changes that produce optimal care. My commitment to all North Carolinians is to continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in pursuit of solutions that make the VA more efficient and ensure that our veterans have access to the quality health care they need and deserve.” Senator Tillis’ recommendations to Secretary McDonald include: Significantly overhauling unnecessary layers of bureaucracy, such as the VA’s outdated and burdensome contract system, and giving more flexibility to VA professionals on the ground who best understand the needs of patients. Keeping VA clinics open longer to help treat more veterans. Many VA clinics currently close between 4 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Figures provided by Duke University show that by keeping standard 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. hours, an additional five million veterans could be seen by health care professionals across the nation every year. Addressing recruiting and retention issues for physician assistants and nurse practitioners. Getting new health care providers into the VA system faster by implementing a new credentialing system for VA providers. Exploring the expanded use of urgent care, which the private sector is moving quickly toward. Expanding the use of sharing agreements with academic partners like UNC, Duke, East Carolina and Campbell that will include sharing of excess academic resources with the VA at a fair market value. Encouraging the use of private facilities by VA providers to better meet veterans’ needs, which can often be more cost-effective than simply outsourcing the care through non-VA care service. Improving VA staff morale by allowing providers to take partial leave when they have an issue with a child in school or have to address other family or personal issues. ###
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 today with a 99-0 vote: “I am pleased that the Senate was able to come together to pass this important bipartisan legislation, which gives law enforcement officers the tools they need to combat human traffickers and provides a small measure of justice for trafficking victims to help them begin the healing process. For too long, human trafficking, one of the most heinous crimes imaginable, has flown under the public’s radar, and the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act has already played a key role in raising the public’s awareness that modern-day slavery is occurring in America’s communities and must be stopped using all resources that are available.” ###
04.22.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Gary Peters (D-MI) announced today that they are leading a bipartisan letter to U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman about a possible special docking provision that could allow for the future addition of countries like China to the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “The Chinese government has consistently intervened in currency markets to manipulate the value of their currency against the U.S. dollar,” the senators wrote in the letter. “We have serious concerns about an agreement which would welcome countries with a history of currency manipulation, intellectual property theft, and failure to abide by existing global trade norms without prior Congressional approval and oversight.” U.S. negotiators have indicated that a final TPP agreement could include a special docking provision to allow for the inclusion of new member countries in future years, including Korea, Thailand, the Philippines and China. In 2014, five Chinese military officers were charged with stealing intellectual property from American companies. The U.S. Justice Department’s indictment focused on the steel and solar industries where Chinese exports have been driving concerns from American companies about unfair trade practices. The United States has also brought 16 World Trade Organization dispute settlement cases against China that include charges on export subsidies, restrictions on trading and distribution rights and intellectual property rights. The full text of the letter is available below: Dear Ambassador Froman: We have closely followed your efforts negotiating the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP). These negotiations have focused on the trade behavior and commitments of the 12 members of the current discussion. However, you and other members of the Executive Branch have indicated that the TPP will be an agreement that anticipates the addition of new members in future years. Korea, Thailand, the Philippines, and China have all been mentioned as potential future members of the TPP. President Obama and other administration officials have commented that they would welcome interest from China in joining TPP. You have testified before the Senate Finance Committee and indicated that TPP will include a special docking provision to accommodate future new TPP members, such as China. Last year, five Chinese military officers were charged with stealing intellectual property from U.S. companies. The United States has brought 16 World Trade Organization dispute settlement cases against China on issues ranging from Intellectual Property Rights, export subsidies, discriminatory industrial practices, and restrictions on trading and distribution rights. The Chinese government has consistently intervened in currency markets to manipulate the value of their currency against the U.S. dollar. We have serious concerns about an agreement which would welcome countries with a history of currency manipulation, intellectual property theft, and failure to abide by existing global trade norms without prior Congressional approval and oversight. As the TPP agreement takes form, it would be helpful to Members of Congress to understand fully what the process will be for adding countries like China to the TPP agreement. We would welcome your answers to the following questions: Will the final TPP agreement have a docking provision to facilitate the admission of new members into TPP? Can you explain how the docking process would work for potential new TPP members who seek to join the agreement after it is in force? Is China, or any other Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation nation, excluded from potential future membership in TPP? Will the addition of new members to TPP be subject to Congressional oversight or approval? Will new member nations joining TPP require the Executive Branch to seek new Trade Promotion Authority from the Congress? If not, in the event that this administration, or a future President, decides to add China to TPP, will Congress be limited to a simple up-or-down vote, without amendment, on the decision to have a free trade agreement with China? All members of Congress should fully understand the implications for the United States economy of the TPP before any vote on the agreement. We would welcome your answers to the above questions as soon as possible to permit us to review them prior to Congressional consideration of Trade Promotion Authority. ###
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) admitted it erred in granting deferred deportation to Emmanuel Jesus Rangel-Hernandez, a known gang member who is now charged with four counts of 1st degree murder in North Carolina. In a letter to Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, USCIS stated that Emmanuel Jesus Rangel-Hernandez’s request for deferred deportation under President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive order “should not have been approved” based on its procedures and protocols. Rangel-Hernandez was placed in the removal process in March 2012, following drug charges, but was shielded from removal by USCIS even though the agency knew of his gang membership. He is now charged with the murders of four individuals, including a former ‘America’s Next Top Model’ contestant. “This statement by USCIS confirms what we have feared – that USCIS is not doing a thorough job reviewing the individuals who it allows to stay in this country under the President’s deferred action program. It’s no secret that USCIS staff is under intense pressure to approve every DACA application that comes across their desk, and based on this information, it’s clear that adequate protocols are not in place to protect public safety. The fact is that this tragedy could have been avoided if the agency had a zero tolerance policy with regard to criminal aliens and gang members,” Grassley said. “The flawed implementation of the President’s blanket deferred action program has created a loophole that allows dangerous criminals who came here illegally – even known gang members – to stay in the country. The USCIS needs to immediately start performing detailed criminal background checks to prevent similar tragedies from occurring in the future,” said Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina, a member the Senate Judiciary Committee. “This agency’s admission is chilling. For some time, the administration has promised Americans that those who qualify for their executive order would fully meet a set of guidelines meant to keep criminals out of our country. We now know that isn’t true and that the agency tasked with implementing the President’s edict cannot effectively carry out the rule without compromising the safety of Americans. This is one more reason why the President’s habit of governing by proclamation is a poor replacement for actual law making,” said Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina. USCIS’ confirmation of the error follows inquiries in February and March asking for details on the case as well as statistics on the number of DACA recipients with gang ties and other criminal records. In its response, USCIS failed to clearly explain where the breakdown occurred. According to USCIS, records of Rangel-Hernandez’s gang affiliation in TECS, a federal crime database, should have been reviewed by USCIS’ Background Check Unit prior to being sent to an adjudicator for a decision on his DACA application. The adjudicator would only be able to approve such an application after signoff from USCIS headquarters. It remains unclear whether the Background Check Unit failed to discover the TECS record or whether the adjudicator approved the application despite knowledge of the gang ties and without consulting headquarters. ###
04.20.2015	Tillis presses case on 440th Senator is placing ‘holds’ on civilian nominations until Air Force gives answers BY RENEE SCHOOF | MCCLATCHY WASHINGTON BUREAU http://www.newsobserver.com/news/politics-government/state-politics/article18791142.html “Why on Earth we would jeopardize the training and readiness in that context – the only place on the planet where we do that? It just doesn’t make sense to me,” Tillis said in an interview following the release of a congressionally mandated Air Force report on its plans for the airlift wing. The plan to inactivate the air wing, a budget-cutting measure, would save $116 million, according to the Air Force report… … The report, issued Tuesday, said that after closing the 440th Airlift Wing, training and other missions from Fort Bragg would use a fleet of aircraft flown in from other places. It said the Air Force plans to reduce its aging C-130 aircraft from 358 to 300 in the 2016 fiscal year and use the cost savings to replace some with C-130Js and modernize the rest. It said there would be “no adverse impact” on the Global Response Force. The force would use C-17s and C-130s that are based in other places rather than at Pope, according to the report… … “I want to know the methodology and metrics for arriving at this decision,” Tillis said. “They say, ‘Yeah, we’ll get that to you.’ And now I’m hearing that maybe some of that doesn’t exist. So it really undermines my confidence.” He said his concern was based on the impact on military capabilities, not on the economics and jobs. “This is about getting our forces prepared to complete the mission that we expect them to be able to complete,” Tillis said, but added, “My heart does go out to the people affected by this. We know they all have jobs through the end of September.” About 300 of the 1,100 Reservists in the unit have already sought other jobs. Tillis said he’s concerned that if a large number of the remaining 800 also decide to look for Reserve positions elsewhere in the next couple months, the Air Force policy to close the air wing will become irreversible. Tillis spent three days last week at Fort Bragg with the 440th Airlift Wing and the leadership of the 82nd Airborne, the infantry division of the Army that specializes in parachute landings. The base is also home to Army Special Forces groups. “To a person they said that (the Air Force plan to inactivate the 440th) will have an impact on their training,” he said. The freshman senator also has met recently with Air Force officials, who told him that they would close other places and keep the 440th at Pope Army Airfield at Fort Bragg if they had more flexibility. However, statutory or Base Realignment and Closure requirements limited their options, he said. Tillis said he has proposed an amendment that would provide funding to keep the 440th Airlift Wing in operation for at least a year, which would give time for Congress to look at the readiness concerns. Meanwhile, Ellmers and fellow lawmakers Reps. David Price, a Democrat, and Republicans George Holding, David Rouzer and Richard Hudson supported a funding request in the House to keep the airlift wing open. Tillis also earlier this month put a hold on all civilian appointments in the Department of Defense and Air Force until he feels he has the answers he needs about the 440th. About 10 nominations are pending in the Armed Services Committee, according to the committee’s website.
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC) appeared on CNN’s The Lead with Jake Tapper, where they discussed ISIS’ siege of the Iraqi city of Ramadi, the need for the United States to continue training Iraqi forces, and Tillis’ recent trip to Iraq, where he met with Iraqi and Kurdish leaders. “Anytime ISIS takes ground it's a bad thing,” said Senator Tillis “We need to be prepared through the coalition forces to provide air support. The Iraqi armed services have to go in and have to defend the situation on the ground. We need to do everything we can to hold the spread and focus efforts back on eradicating them from Ramadi.”
04.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC) introduced The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015, a bipartisan bill that amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 to ensure that the US-70 Corridor in North Carolina would become part of the Interstate system once it is fully upgraded to interstate standards. Tillis’ Senate bill is co-sponsored by Senator Richard Burr (R-NC), and Congressman G.K. Butterfield (D-NC-01) introduced a companion bill in the House. The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015 would designate the following as high priority corridors: U.S. Route 117/Interstate Route 795 from U.S. Route 70 in Goldsboro, North Carolina, to Interstate Route 40 west of Faison, North Carolina. U.S. Route 70 from its intersection with Interstate Route 40 in Garner, North Carolina, to the Port at Morehead City, North Carolina. If the corridors become part of the Interstate system, they would result in improved access to military bases in eastern North Carolina and the Port at Morehead City, in addition to easing traffic congestion between Raleigh and eastern North Carolina. The legislation helps advance the North Carolina Department of Transportation’s Strategic Transportation Corridors Vision, which aims to provide North Carolina with a network of high priority corridors that promote economic development and enhance interstate commerce. “In midst of a sluggish national economy, North Carolina has been a bright spot for growth and innovation, and one of the keys to sustaining that economic success is through continued investment in transportation, infrastructure, and our military,” said Senator Tillis. “The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act is a true bipartisan effort to support North Carolina’s military installations and complement the state’s 25 year transportation improvement plan, which in turn will generate economic development, provide a boost for local communities and create good-paying jobs.” “This legislation will make it possible to refurbish and expand the highway system in North Carolina by identifying these highways as high priority corridors,” said Senator Burr. “Improvements to this infrastructure is critically important to local communities and will make this high transit corridor safer, faster and more modern, ensuring that North Carolina’s economy continues to be one of the most vibrant in the country. I welcome this needed legislation and know that North Carolinians do as well.” “Improving transportation in eastern North Carolina is vital to strengthening our state’s economy, improving military readiness and commerce, and reducing traffic congestion,” said Congressman Butterfield, who introduced the House companion bill. “The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act would connect cities and military bases throughout eastern North Carolina with a major port, the state capital, and the eastern seaboard. This vital legislation will benefit the entire region, and stimulate job growth throughout eastern North Carolina.” The Military Corridor Transportation Improvement Act of 2015 is supported by North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory and Secretary of Transportation Tony Tata, the U.S. 70 Corridor Commission, and the Wayne County Transportation Committee. “We appreciate the support of the NC Congressional Delegation for the Governor's 25 Year Vision, specifically this focus on the Highway 70 corridor that will strengthen military connections and enhance freight movement to and from one of our state's vital ports,” said Secretary Tony Tata. ###
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, the United States Air Force submitted its mandatory “Report on C-130 Force Structure” to Congress, outlining its plans to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg. In response to the report, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “The report that was finally released to Congress after months of delay confirms that it has always been the Air Force’s intention to shutter the 440th Airlift Wing at Fort Bragg, a short-sighted decision that would negatively impact America’s rapid reaction and Special Forces during national emergencies. “Many of the questions I have been asking Air Force leaders for months regarding the rationale behind the deactivation remain unanswered, and I will continue my hold on all civilian Department of Defense and Department of Air Force nominees. Additionally, I will continue to push for language to be inserted into the FY16 Department of Defense appropriations legislation that prevents the Air Force from relocating aircraft or personnel currently assigned to Pope Airfield. “I will pursue all options available to help stop this strategically flawed plan from being fully implemented.” ###
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) met with Israeli Ambassador to the United States, Ron Dermer, in Tillis’ Washington, D.C. office to discuss several issues, including stopping Iran’s nuclear ambitions and combatting terrorist groups in the Middle East. Following the meeting, Senator Tillis issued the following statement: “I thank Ambassador Dermer for meeting with me to discuss ways for our nations to work together to promote peace and stability in the Middle East. Israel needs America’s continued support and friendship now more than ever. In a region engulfed by terrorism, oppression, and war, Israel stands on the frontline in defense of hope and freedom. “It is disappointing to see the Obama Administration continually attempt to undermine Prime Minister Netanyahu and dismiss Israel’s well-founded concerns over the proposed framework with Iran. While President Obama has not prioritized America’s special friendship with Israel, there is broad bipartisan consensus in Congress to strengthen our unbreakable bond with Israel and prevent a bad deal with the Iranian regime.”
04.10.2015	SALISBURY, N.C. – Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC) visited the Durham and Salisbury Veterans Affairs Medical Centers (VAMC) to meet with facility leaders and staff and receive updates on wait times and delivery of health care for veterans at the facilities. Tillis also visited the Fayetteville VAMC on Monday. Tillis toured the Durham VAMC’s Medicine Floor, Surgical Intensive Care Union (SICU), Community Living Center (CLC) and the Emergency Department, and toured the Salisbury VAMC’s Mental Health Center of Excellence, Community Living Center, and Hospice Unit. A report released by the Department of Veterans Affairs last June revealed that several North Carolina VAMCs, including Durham and Fayetteville, had among the longest average wait times in the United States. Yesterday, the Associated Press reported on analysis of more recent data from VA facilities across the nation, finding that many North Carolina facilities continue to have some of the worst wait times in the country. Today Tillis spoke out on the unacceptable wait times persisting at VA facilities, and called for more institutional improvements and increased accountability to ensure veterans are receiving quality care. “I look forward to helping the staff and veterans at VA centers across the state to ensure that corrective actions continue to be made to improve the quality and delivery of health care for the brave men and women who have guaranteed the freedoms we all enjoy as Americans,” said Senator Tillis. “North Carolina is home to the ninth largest veteran population in the country, and those numbers will continue to rise in the coming years, which means that significant overhauls at the VA must be made to properly address growing demand. In the Senate, I will continue to work to advance bipartisan solutions that reform and improve the VA system, and I will continue to hold the administration and Department of Veterans Affairs accountable for implementing reforms and making sure veterans are receiving the care they need.” A member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Tillis has championed important legislation that aims to improve health care for veterans and reform the VA. Tillis is an original co-sponsor of the Prioritizing Veterans' Access to Mental Health Care Act, which prioritizes access to mental health care by providing incentives to hire more mental health care professionals at the VA and granting veterans instant authorization of non-VA care if the veteran provides an electronic or hard-copy statement that they are not receiving adequate or timely mental health care at VA facilities. Tillis was also a co-sponsor of the Clay Hunt SAV Act, which directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct annual evaluations of mental health care and suicide prevention programs to gauge their effectiveness and then make any necessary improvements or changes. The bill passed the Senate unanimously and was signed into law by President Obama in February. ###
04.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced today that he recently concluded a weeklong visit to Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Tillis was joined on the Congressional Delegation by Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) and Senators Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Steve Daines (R-MT), David Perdue (R-GA), and Ben Sasse (R-NE). Senator Tillis met with U.S. troops, military officials, and foreign leaders including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin, King Abdullah II of Jordan, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, Iraqi President Fuad Masum, and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. “It was a privilege to visit with American servicemembers stationed abroad and meet with leaders from Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan,” said Senator Tillis. “I was also grateful for the opportunity to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss the long-standing friendship between our two nations and the need to work together to stop Iran from achieving nuclear weapons capability.” ###
03.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC –Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced the introduction of Senate Resolution 117, which recognizes the contributions of linemen to protect public safety and expresses support for the designation of March 31, 2015, as National Lineman Appreciation Day. “All men and women who work to protect their community deserve unending praise and respect for their duty and sacrifice,” said Senator Tillis. “I was honored to introduce a resolution designating March 31, 2015, as National Lineman Appreciation Day. Our linemen truly are public safety heroes, often times being the first to respond during storms and other emergencies, and our appreciation for them should not go unnoticed.” ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today issued the following statement regarding the passage of the Senate’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget resolution: “I supported a budget that, while not perfect, will move our nation towards a fiscally sustainable path to boost our economy and create jobs and opportunities. Last November, the American people sent a clear message that they were sick and tired of Washington’s ineffectiveness and unwillingness to tackle tough issues, and the passage of today’s budget shows that the Senate is back to work and fighting for the priorities of hardworking taxpayers.” ###
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) and Ranking Member Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL), urging them to prohibit the transfer of more than 24 AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army National Guard in Raleigh, North Carolina, to the Regular Army. Movement of the AH-64 Apache helicopter unit from the Army Guard in Raleigh to the Regular Army would cost more than 400 North Carolina jobs, while undermining the combat prowess of the Army Guard and weakening the United States’ first line of defense. READ Senator Tillis’ Letter to Chairman Cochran and Senator Durbin Dear Chairman Cochran and Senator Durbin: I respectfully request that you include language in the Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016 that would prohibit the Regular Army from transferring more than 48 AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army National Guard to the Regular Army during FY 2016. The FY 2015 NDAA and FY 2015 Appropriations Act prohibited transfers of the Apaches during FY 2015, but authorized an exception for transferring up to 48 Apaches to the Regular Army between October 2015 and March 31, 2016. I respectfully request a change of date from March 31, 2016 to September 30, 2016 to freeze additional Apache helicopter transfers and any preparations for such transfers. Both FY 2015 Acts established the National Commission on the Future of the Army (the Commission) with duties to comprehensively study the structure of the Army and to report to Congress on its findings in February 2016. Freezing further transfers of the Apaches through FY 16 will comply with the intent of Congress to avoid irreversible cuts in the combat mission of the Army National Guard before the Commission has an opportunity to report to Congress. The combat prowess of the Army Guard is indisputable and I would also note that the first attack aviation units to reach Afghanistan after the attacks in 2001 were Apaches from the North Carolina National Guard. I recognize the challenges you face in the current fiscal climate and I thank you for you kind consideration of this priority for Army National Guard. Sincerely, Thom Tillis
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a Senate Special Committee on Aging hearing on the fight against Alzheimer’s Disease, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) stressed the need for Congress to invest in Alzheimer’s Disease research, noting that funding promising treatments makes smart fiscal sense. “This is a classic example of where the head and the heart meet, because with the investment of resources we do the right fiscal thing, but we also make a tremendous transformational impact for those inflicted with Alzheimer’s,” said Senator Tillis. “We need to make sure we educate our members here in the House and Senate on the compelling fiscal reasons to do something that produces a transformational outcome.”
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (R-NC-02) today met with Air Force Secretary Deborah Lee James to discuss the future of the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Airfield. Senator Tillis issued the following statement in response to the meeting with Secretary James: “After meeting with Secretary James today, the questions I have been asking for months regarding the Air Force’s short-sighted plans to deactivate the 440th Air Wing remain unanswered. “The Air Force continues to state that removing airmen from the 440th does not constitute an attempt to shutter the air wing, despite the fact that C-130s cannot be flown without pilots and maintainers. Additionally, the Secretary of the Air Force has not yet provided the metrics and policy rationale underlying the Air Force’s decision regarding Pope Airfield. “I will continue to require Air Force leaders to be more transparent with the public and Congress regarding their decision-making, and hold them accountable for decisions that lack a strategic justification or violate the spirit of last year’s NDAA, which mandates that Congress be informed before the Air Force acts to close the 440th.” ###
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today announced he is an original co-sponsor of the Prioritizing Veterans’ Access to Mental Health Care Act. The bill was introduced by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA), and Tillis joins Senators Chuck Grassley (R-IA) and John Cornyn (R-TX) as original co-sponsors. The legislation prioritizes access to mental health care by providing incentives to hire more mental health care professionals at the VA and granting veterans instant authorization of non-VA care if the veteran provides an electronic or hard-copy statement that they are not receiving adequate or timely mental health care at VA facilities. “North Carolina is home to nearly 800,000 veterans, and that population is growing every day,” said Senator Tillis. “Unfortunately, we have not even begun to get a handle on the mental health needs of the many brave men and women who have served our nation. This legislation is an important first step towards getting more mental health professionals into the VA system and giving veterans the ability to quickly access mental health services when the VA cannot meet their needs.” ###
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today issued the following statement on the five-year anniversary President Obama signed ObamaCare into law: “Five years after President Obama signed ObamaCare into law, the American people are losing their doctors and health insurance plans and bearing the burden of skyrocketing premiums and deductibles. The President broke his repeated promises to make health care more affordable, and families and small business owners in North Carolina and across the country are paying the price. It’s time to repeal ObamaCare and replace it with commonsense, market-based reforms that will keep health care costs in check, increase competition, and give hardworking Americans more freedom and choice when it comes to making their own health care decisions.” ###
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina and ‎Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley of Iowa today released evidence received by the Judiciary Committee confirming that murder suspect Emmanuel Jesus Rangel-Hernandez avoided deportation through President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy. The Senators also requested details on the Department of Homeland Security’s adjudication process for people seeking deferred deportation. Records indicate Rangel-Hernandez was placed in the removal process by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) following drug charges in March 2012, but removal proceedings were dismissed on December 18, 2013, because he was approved for deferred action under DACA. Whistleblowers assert that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services granted Rangel-Hernandez’s DACA application even though they knew he was a gang member. Rangel-Hernandez was charged with first degree murder in February 2015 for the deaths of three people in Charlotte, North Carolina. In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, the Senators expressed concern about potential vulnerabilities in the system, and requested DACA policies and historic statistics on applications granted and denied from people with criminal backgrounds. A signed copy of the letter is available here. Full text of the letter is below. March 20, 2015 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: On Friday, February 27, Senator Grassley wrote to you inquiring whether Emmanuel Jesus Rangel-Hernandez applied for and was, subsequently, approved for deferred action under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. As you are aware, Mr. Rangel-Hernandez has been charged with first degree murder in the death of four individuals in Charlotte, North Carolina. However, you have not responded to Senator Grassley’s initial inquiry though it was due by March 9, 2015. Since that letter, we have received information that Mr. Rangel-Hernandez applied for and was approved for deferred action under DACA. According to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Arrest Affidavit, Mr. Rangel-Hernandez was arrested for misdemeanor possession of Marijuana on March 30, 2012. [1] As a result of his arrest and unlawful status in the United States, Mr. Rangel-Hernandez was put into removal proceedings by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) after his arrest on March 30, 2012. Subsequently, Mr. Rangel-Hernandez’s removal proceedings were dismissed on December 18, 2013 due to his approved DACA application. [2] Furthermore, whistleblowers have alleged that Mr. Rangel-Hernandez’s DACA ‎application was approved although U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) had full knowledge that he was a known gang member. This raises serious concerns about USCIS’s review and approval of other DACA applicants and points to potential vulnerabilities in the system.‎ Therefore, we are seeking the Department’s official policy related to DACA adjudications for suspected or known gang members. In addition, please answer the following questions: 1. Since DACA’s creation, how many applications have been approved? Please provide the answer by fiscal year. 2. Of the DACA applications approved, please provide the number of applicants that: Had known gang affiliation. Suspected gang affiliation. Had criminal affiliations. 3. Please explain why USCIS approved DACA applications for known or suspected gang members and others with criminal affiliations. 4. By fiscal year, how many DACA applications have been denied because of gang affiliation or other criminal affiliation? 5. By fiscal year, please provide the number of DACA terminations as a result of gang affiliation or other criminal affiliation. 6. What steps is USCIS taking to ensure that known or suspected gang members or criminally affiliated applicants are denied DACA or approved DACA is terminated once knowledge of gang affiliation or other criminal affiliation is known? We request that the Department respond to this letter no later than March 31, 2015. Should you have any questions, please contact Kathy Nuebel of Senator Grassley’s staff and Courtney Temple of Senator Tillis’ staff at (202)224-5225. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Thom Tillis Chairman Member Committee on the Judiciary Committee on the Judiciary
03.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) joined Maria Bartiromo on Fox News’ Sunday Morning Futures, where he discussed the threat posed by ISIS and the Obama administration’s negotiations with Iran. On the Obama administration’s negotiations with Iran, Tillis said: “I don’t think that they’re negotiating in a position of strength. Whether it’s making sure that the duration of agreement there is no sunset, whether or not we have proper inspections provisions in place, it seems like at every point where the fundamentals of the deal should be in place, the administration is missing it.” On Iran’s increasing involvement in Iraq, Tillis said: “If we want a long-term strategy in Iraq, it can’t just be a strategy that’s founded on some progress that the Iranians can make by aiding, assisting, and advising Shia militia. Because the consequences of that could be potentially pushing the Sunnis closer to ISIS and causing more problems than it solves by taking back ground. It’s just another example of where the strategies in the Middle East by this administration are failing, and I think the American people and the Congress are becoming increasingly concerned.” Watch the latest video at <a href="http://video.foxnews.com">video.foxnews.com</a> ###
03.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis returned home this evening from a trip to the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where he was joined by Senators Tom Cotton (Arkansas), James Lankford (Oklahoma), Joni Ernst (Iowa), and Mike Rounds (South Dakota). The Senators toured the Guantanamo Bay base, observed detention operations, and met with military commanders. “Guantanamo Bay houses some of the most heinous and evil criminals of our time – the worst of the worst – and my visit today reinforces my belief that we must keep this facility open,” said Senator Tillis. “I thank our servicemembers at Guantanamo Bay for their incredible devotion to our country, and I will work to ensure this facility remains open and continues to play a key role in our nation’s effort to defeat the terrorist threat.” ###
03.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) made the following statement on the loss of seven U.S. Marines, stationed at Camp Lejeune (N.C.), and four Louisiana National Guard air crewmembers in a helicopter crash at the Florida panhandle: “This tragedy reminds us of the great risks our men and women in uniform take every day. We cannot forget the sacrifices they make on our behalf to defend our freedom. Our prayers are with their families and we will remember their service to our great country.” ###
03.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) met with Jordanian Ambassador to the United States Alia Bouran to discuss developments in the Middle East and the partnership between the two nations. “I greatly appreciated meeting with Ambassador Bouran to discuss U.S.-Jordanian relations and opportunities to promote peace and stability in the Middle East,” said Senator Tillis. “Jordan has long been one of America’s strongest allies in the region, and we must continue to work together to end ISIS’ campaign of terror and prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.” ###
03.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today joined a bipartisan group of Senators in urging Senate appropriators to allocate funding for the purpose of providing defensive weapons to Ukraine. In December, the President signed into law the Ukraine Freedom Support Act, which authorizes funding for the U.S. to provide defensive weapons to the Government of Ukraine in the face of Russian aggression. The letter, signed by 12 other senators, asks the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Appropriations Committee to provide funding consistent with the law. BIPARTISAN LETTER TO SENATE APPROPRIATORS: March 10, 2015 Senator Thad Cochran Chairman Senate Committee on Appropriations Room S-128, The Capitol Washington, DC 20510 Senator Barbara Mikulski Vice Chairwoman Senate Committee on Appropriations Room S-128, The Capitol Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairman Cochran and Vice Chairwoman Mikulski, We write today to request that the Appropriations Committee appropriate funding, consistent with the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 (H.R. 5859; P.L. 113-272), for the purpose of providing defensive weapons to Ukraine. The Ukrainian people and their elected government are engaged in a desperate struggle to defend their country against better-armed Russian-backed separatists. Following the February 12, 2015, “Minsk II” ceasefire agreement, separatists—with support from the Kremlin—laid siege to the strategically important city of Debaltseve. There are concerns that the port city of Mariupol may be next. The flagrant violation of the February 12, 2015, ceasefire by President Putin-backed separatists requires a strong response from the United States and the West. On February 25, 2015, General Philip Breedlove, the Commander of Supreme Allied Command, Europe and U.S. European Command, said, “More than 1,000 pieces of Russian military equipment have been transferred into Ukraine, including tanks, armored personnel carriers, heavy artillery pieces and other military vehicles and equipment…These are not the actions of a good faith negotiating partner.” There is growing bipartisan consensus within Congress, the administration, and among former officials—such as Zbigniew Brzezinski, Madeline Albright, and George Shultz—that the United States should provide defensive weapons to Ukraine. While these weapons would not allow Ukraine to outmatch the Russian military, they would enable Ukraine to better defend itself and increase the costs of President Putin’s aggression in Ukraine. By increasing costs for President Putin’s aggression, it would discourage future aggression in eastern Europe that could even more directly threaten U.S. national security interests. We fully support the authorization provided under the Ukraine Freedom Support Act to provide defensive weapons to the Government of Ukraine. Congress can send an important message to Ukraine, the Kremlin, and the world by appropriating the authorized funding in accordance with the law. Thank you for your consideration of our request and for your leadership on the Senate Appropriations Committee. Sincerely, Kelly Ayotte Richard Blumenthal Thom Tillis Sherrod Brown Mike Rounds John Cornyn Marco Rubio James Risch Roger Wicker Cory Gardner Orrin Hatch Johnny Isakson Dan Sullivan ###
03.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced he is an original co-sponsor of the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, which was introduced today by Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC). The legislation establishes a national Blue Alert communications network within the Department of Justice to issue alerts when a law enforcement officer is killed, injured, goes missing in the line of duty, or when there is an imminent and credible threat to an officer. An existing Department of Justice officer would serve as the national coordinator of the Blue Alert communications network and would be tasked with assisting state and local governments using the Blue Alert Plans. “Our federal, state, and local law enforcement officers risk their lives every single day to keep our families and communities safe,” said Senator Tillis. “A national Blue Alert network could prove to be an indispensable tool for law enforcement, and it should result in making it easier to respond to emergencies and apprehend criminals on the run after they injure or kill a law enforcement official. I am honored to join my colleagues in support of The National Blue Alert Act, and I hope Congress will quickly pass this important legislation and put it on President Obama’s desk.” ###
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s speech before a joint session of Congress, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement: “It was important for our nation to hear from Prime Minister Netanyahu today on the grave threat the Iranian regime poses to not only the United States and Israel, but the entire world. “While the Obama Administration criticized the Speaker of the House for inviting the elected leader of America’s greatest ally in the Middle East to address Congress, the real outrage is this Administration’s insistence on reaching a deal with the Iranian regime – even a bad one – without approval from Congress. “An Iranian regime that acquires nuclear weapons is a nightmare scenario that would embolden Iran’s terrorist proxies, destabilize the Middle East, and threaten the very existence of Israel. “I urge President Obama to carefully consider the well-founded concerns expressed by Prime Minister Netanyahu today and begin to work with Congress to take the actions needed to stop Iran from achieving nuclear weapons capability.” ###
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced he is co-sponsoring the Nuclear Weapon Free Iran Act of 2015, authored by Senator Mark Kirk (R-IL) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ), which enhances Congressional oversight of the Obama Administration’s negotiations with Iran. The bipartisan legislation requires the President to submit any nuclear agreement text or extension to Congress within five days if a deal is reached. If no deal is reached by June 30th, new sanctions would be imposed on Iran and previous sanctions that were waived by the Administration during negotiations would be restored. “I am pleased to join a bipartisan group of Senators in supporting legislation to provide much-needed Congressional oversight of the Obama Administration’s misguided negotiations with Iran,” said Senator Tillis. “It is unfortunate that the Administration threw away any leverage it had by pre-emptively waiving economic sanctions against Iran and abandoning America’s long-held position of preventing Iran from achieving nuclear weapons capability. The Iranian regime has repeatedly proven it cannot be trusted to simply drop its nuclear weapons ambitions, and Iranian forces and proxies have helped destroy civil society in Lebanon, Syria and Iraq. Most importantly, Iran is the world’s top state sponsor of terrorism and poses a direct threat to the safety and security of the United States, Israel, and our allies. The United States must do everything it can to prevent the ayatollahs from acquiring nuclear weapons.”
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) today introduced legislation to prevent the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) from overriding state and local municipal broadband laws. Earlier today, the FCC voted to effectively overturn North Carolina and Tennessee state laws that set requirements and conditions on municipalities competing with the private sector in the broadband marketplace. The Tillis-Blackburn legislation says that the FCC cannot pre-empt states with municipal broadband laws already on the books, or any other states that subsequently adopt such municipal broadband laws. The bill also includes a Sense of Congress stating that the FCC does not have the legal authority to prohibit states from implementing municipal broadband restrictions. Original co-sponsors of the federal legislation included Representatives Mike Pompeo (R-KS), Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Mark Meadows (R-NC), and David Rouzer (R-NC). “It is disturbing, yet not surprising, that the FCC and Chairman Wheeler are attempting to deny the sovereign right of states to make their own laws,” said Senator Tillis. “After witnessing how some local governments wasted taxpayer dollars and accumulated millions in debt through poor decision making, the legislatures of states like North Carolina and Tennessee passed commonsense, bipartisan laws that protect hardworking taxpayers and maintain the fairness of free-market competition. Representative Blackburn and I recognize the need for Congress to step in and take action to keep unelected bureaucrats from acting contrary to the expressed will of the American people through their state legislatures.” “The FCC’s decision to grant the petitions of Chattanooga, Tennessee and Wilson, North Carolina is a troubling power grab,” said Congressman Blackburn. “States are sovereign entities that have Constitutional rights, which should be respected rather than trampled upon. They know best how to manage their limited taxpayer dollars and financial ventures. Ironically, they will now be burdened by the poor judgment of a federal government that is over $18 trillion in debt and clearly cannot manage its own affairs. “I’m pleased to be working with Senator Tillis on this important issue. As former state legislators, we strongly believe in States’ rights and will fight the FCC’s liberal agenda. Chairman Wheeler’s regulatory appetite appears to know no bounds and is seeping dangerously into the lives of Americans. It is time for Congress to assert itself and protect States once again from unelected Washington bureaucrats.” BACKGROUND In 2006, the City of Wilson, North Carolina, borrowed at least $34.6 million to build a government-owned broadband network, without a vote of its citizens. In support of the borrowing, Wilson’s broadband business plan claimed that the fiber project would be cash positive in year three of its operation; however, the projection failed to materialize, as Wilson lost $2.1 million in FY2008; $1.1 million in FY2009; $1.4 million in FY2010; $1.06 million in FY2011; and $1.3 million in FY2012. In 2011, the North Carolina General Assembly passed a law (S.L. 2011-84) that protects taxpayers by barring local governments from using tax dollars to cross-subsidize other local accounts and requiring a vote of citizens to authorize new debt used to fund the broadband service. The law grandfathered the City of Wilson, North Carolina, and two other municipal broadband providers, but required them to follow the requirements set in the legislation if they attempted to expand their service. Wilson subsequently asked for a waiver from those rules, resulting in today’s FCC ruling. ###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today released the following statement on Attorney General nominee Loretta Lynch: “I have immense respect for Loretta Lynch both personally and professionally. However, in light of the testimony at her confirmation hearing and her subsequent refusal to provide straightforward answers to written questions from myself and other Senators, it appears that she would represent little, if any, tangible policy or management difference from Attorney General Eric Holder. I cannot vote to confirm a nominee who will not make a firm and explicit commitment to reverse the partisan politicization that presently exists at the Department of Justice. “By all indications, Ms. Lynch would continue to pursue the costly and frivolous lawsuit against the state of North Carolina to overturn a commonsense and constitutionally sound voter ID law. That same law is supported by the vast majority of North Carolinians, and the U.S. Supreme Court recently ruled that similar state photo ID laws are in fact constitutional. “Ms. Lynch also made it clear she supports President Obama’s plan to grant amnesty to illegal immigrants on a wholesale basis without Congressional approval. The President himself previously and frequently stated he lacked the constitutional authority to unilaterally implement such changes to immigration law and that Congress would need to pass it first. “In addition, Ms. Lynch has repeatedly sidestepped questions about prosecutorial misconduct at the Department of Justice. “For these reasons, I will not be voting to confirm Ms. Lynch. In the event that she is confirmed by the Senate, I stand ready to work with her on key areas of agreement, and I hope she will prove my concerns unfounded by rebuilding the Department of Justice’s fractured relationship with Congress, put an end to the costly and politically motivated ligation against North Carolina, and most importantly, restore the Department’s reputation for legal integrity that is divorced from politics.” ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced today he is co-sponsoring the American Liberty Restoration Act and the American Job Protection Act to lessen the negative impact President Obama’s health care law will have on American families and small businesses. The American Liberty Restoration Act strikes the Affordable Care Act’s mandate for individuals to purchase health-care insurance or pay a financial penalty for every year they are uninsured. Under the President’s health care law, Americans who do not purchase insurance coverage for the 2015 tax-filing season will face a financial penalty of $325 or 2 percent of their income, whichever total is greater. The penalties will increase to $695 or 2.5 percent of this year’s income for the 2016 tax-filing season. The American Job Protection Act strikes the Affordable Care Act’s job-killing mandate for employers with 50 or more full-time employees to provide insurance that is approved by the President’s health care law or face steep financial penalties for each employee. A recent U.S. Chamber of Commerce survey found that, in order to cope with the costs imposed by the employer mandate, roughly one-half of small businesses burdened by the mandate will be forced either to cut hours for their workers to reduce their number of full-time employees or to outright replace their full-time employees with part-time employees. “President Obama’s health care law imposes costly mandates that burden American families, destroy jobs, and stall our nation’s long-term economic growth,” said Senator Tillis. “The commonsense legislation I am co-sponsoring will get government off the backs of hardworking families and small business owners so they have the flexibility and freedom to make their own financial and health care decisions.” ###
02.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement on President Obama’s veto of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: “It’s extremely disappointing that President Obama vetoed the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, a commonsense jobs and infrastructure bill that garnered broad bipartisan support in both the House and Senate. Not surprisingly, the President’s veto was made behind closed doors even though an overwhelming majority of the American people support the construction of the pipeline because of the good paying jobs and affordable energy it will provide. Instead of unjustifiably blocking bipartisan legislation, President Obama should begin working with Congress to advance initiatives that will improve the lives of Americans and help our nation reach its full potential.” ###
02.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following news reports that the Air Force is proceeding with its plans to dismantle the 440th Airlift Wing (AW) at Fort Bragg in violation of a legal mandate to first notify Congress, Senator Tillis raised his objections to such efforts in a letter to Air Force Secretary Debra Lee James, asking her to clarify the extent to which the Air Force has prematurely reduced the mission of the 440th AW. READ SENATOR TILLIS’ LETTER TO AIR FORCE SECRETARY JAMES. Tillis highlighted the fact the that the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for 2015 requires the Air Force to issue a report to Congress on the future C-130 force structure and give Congress sixty days to respond to the report’s recommendations. However, the Air Force never delivered the report to Congress, which was due in January, even though it is now implementing its plan to dismantle the 440th AW by removing airmen and even holding an all hands meeting to assist airmen in finding other jobs, contrary to what the law requires. Earlier this month, Tillis publicly raised the issue of the 440th AW during Defense Secretary Ashton Carter’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee. As Tillis noted in his letter to Secretary James, Dr. Carter responded by committing to a sit-down meeting with Tillis and other members of North Carolina’s Congressional delegation to discuss the future of the 440th AW and other elements of the Air Force’s future C-130 force structure plans. “Prior to his confirmation I had a lengthy discussion with Secretary Carter about the future of the 440th Airlift Wing at Pope Army Airfield,” wrote Senator Tillis. “I also raised the issue publicly with the Secretary during his hearing. He publicly committed to look into the matter and sit down and discuss the 440th‘s future with me. With that in mind I am distressed that in spite of Secretary Carter’s commitment, the Air Force leadership is proceeding to this matter before he has even had time to fulfill his public assurance.” In the letter, Tillis also raised concerns that the deactivation of the 440th AW would be a tactical and strategic mistake that negatively impacts America’s rapid reaction and Special Forces during national emergencies. “It essentially takes the ‘air’ out of ‘airborne,’” wrote Senator Tillis. “The removal of the 440th AW at Pope Army Airfield creates unreasonable risks to the readiness of these critical airborne units, many of which must be prepared to respond to a range of contingencies on short notice. Moreover, the anticipated deactivation of the 440th AW would come at a time when the nation is facing growing uncertainty abroad that could require a military response—a response that only forces at Fort Bragg can provide.” ###
02.17.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today issued the following statement after a federal district court temporarily halted President Obama’s executive actions on immigration: “Today, a federal district court agreed that President Obama’s executive actions on immigration overstep his constitutional authority. The ruling comes as no surprise, as the President himself previously stated no fewer than 22 times that he lacked the ability to unilaterally change or ignore our nation’s immigration laws. Moving forward, I urge President Obama to respect the rule of law and work with Congress on solutions to secure our borders.” ###
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the U.S. Senate passed Senate Resolution (S. Res 79), honoring the life of Dean Smith, the legendary coach of the University of North Carolina’s basketball team. Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Thom Tillis (R-NC) introduced the resolution this week following his passing on Sunday. Smith led the UNC Chapel Hill basketball team to multiple national championships and remained a beloved leader in North Carolina after his retirement. “Coach Smith was a leader on and off the court,” said Senator Burr. “A fantastic coach, he will be remembered for his success at the helm of the Tar Heels team, and his memory will continue to live on through the hundreds of students he encouraged to succeed in the classroom. I’m happy for the opportunity to further honor his life with this resolution.” “Few figures in North Carolina have had as profound an impact on our state as Coach Dean Smith, and this resolution recognizes his tremendous life and legacy,” said Senator Tillis. “Coach Smith is universally regarded as one of the greatest basketball coaches of all-time, and his role as a leader, teacher, and mentor will never be forgotten.” Senator Burr’s comments for the record are available here. ####
02.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) made the following statement on the loss of seven U.S. Marines, stationed at Camp Lejeune (N.C.), and four Louisiana National Guard air crewmembers in a helicopter crash at the Florida panhandle: “This tragedy reminds us of the great risks our men and women in uniform take every day. We cannot forget the sacrifices they make on our behalf to defend our freedom. Our prayers are with their families and we will remember their service to our great country.” ###
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement after the Senate voted to confirm Secretary of Defense nominee Ashton Carter: “Dr. Carter is a well-qualified nominee who has demonstrated he will be a thoughtful and independent leader, and I look forward to working with him on readiness, morale, intelligence and acquisition modernization and the ongoing contribution of all of North Carolina bases to our nation’s defense. “The question now is whether the White House will end its political micromanagement of the Pentagon and give Dr. Carter the flexibility and freedom to lead the department based on military needs. Over the last several years, President Obama often ignored the recommendations of Pentagon leaders, including Secretaries Gates and Panetta, and subsequently made major foreign policy mistakes. America is now confronted with major challenges in defeating ISIS, preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, defending our nation from cyberattacks, and overturning the sequester’s indiscriminate and damaging cuts to our national defense. “I urge President Obama to heed Dr. Carter’s counsel and begin working with Congress on a bipartisan basis to keep our nation safe and secure.” ###
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) released the following statement on the final passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, which now heads to the President’s desk: “Democrats and Republicans came together to pass the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, commonsense legislation that would create thousands of good-paying jobs and move America closer to realizing its full energy potential. The American people overwhelmingly support construction of the pipeline and have already waited six years to benefit from the economic opportunities that would be generated by the project. Now that this bipartisan jobs and infrastructure bill is finally on President Obama’s desk, I urge him to reconsider his veto threat and sign this legislation into law without delay.” ###
02.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today announced key legislative staff hires, including Legislative Director Katy French Talento and Senior Advisor Robert Wilkie. “I’m excited to have a tremendously qualified legislative team that has expertise in a wide range of policy issues,” said Senator Tillis. “Whether it is working on commonsense solutions that make Washington more accountable to hardworking taxpayers or promoting a more robust foreign policy that keeps our nation safe and secure, our legislative team will help play a critical role in advancing the priorities of North Carolina.” Katy French Talento – Legislative Director: Talento returns to the Senate from the private sector, where she was most recently the Vice President for Corporate Affairs at MosquitoZone International, a firm providing malaria protection to the workforce of energy companies in Africa and Asia. Talento was previously the Republican Deputy Staff Director for the U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. She has also served as a Senior Policy Advisor to Sen. Sam Brownback (R-KS), and as a professional staff member for the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, advising Chairman and Ranking Member Judd Gregg (R-NH) on public health issues. Talento holds a Master of Science degree in Infectious Disease Epidemiology from Harvard School of Public Health and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Sociology from the University of Virginia. Robert Wilkie – Senior Advisor: Wilkie served as Assistant Secretary of Defense under Robert Gates and Donald Rumsfeld. He also served as Special Assistant to President George W. Bush for National Security Affairs and as Senior Director of the National Security Council under Dr. Condoleezza Rice. Wilkie is a reserve officer assigned to the Headquarters of the United States Air Force. Prior to joining the Air Force, Wilkie served in the United States Navy Reserve with Naval Special Warfare Group Two and the Office of Naval Intelligence. Wilkie is a graduate of the College of Naval Command and Staff, Air Command and Staff College, the United States Army War College, and the Joint Forces Staff College. He is the recipient of the Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian award of the Department. Wilkie, a native of Fayetteville, North Carolina, holds a Juris Doctor from Loyola University of New Orleans, a Master of Laws in International and Comparative Law from Georgetown University, a Master’s in Strategic Studies from the United States Army War College, and an Honors degree in Politics from Wake Forest University. Courtney Temple – Legislative Assistant: Temple returns to Capitol Hill after working as the Director of Government Relations at the U.S. Travel Association, where she focused on issues relating to traveler visa reform, the TSA screening process, and the Terrorism Risk Insurance program. Temple previously served as the Legislative Director for Representative Joe Heck (R-NV-3) and as a Senior Legislative Assistant for former Representative Steve Austria (R-OH-7). Temple holds a Master of Arts degree in Political Science from the University of Akron with emphasis on International Relations and holds dual Bachelor of Arts degrees in Political Science and International Studies from The Ohio State University. Joe Nolan – Legislative Assistant: Nolan previously served as Deputy Chief of Staff and Senior Education Policy Advisor for Senator Tillis during his tenure as North Carolina House Speaker. Nolan advised Tillis on education and budget issues, and developed legislative policy strategies for the Speaker and Members of the North Carolina House of Representatives. Nolan holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communication Media from North Carolina State University. Luke Blanchat – Special Advisor: Blanchat will be advising Senator Tillis on a variety of legislative issues. Blanchat served as the Deputy Campaign Manager for Senator Tillis’ U.S. Senate campaign, where he helped manage operations and logistics and led policy research efforts. A native of Hickory, North Carolina, Blanchat holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance from Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University. Chad Rhoades – Legislative Correspondent: Rhoades most recently worked as Counsel to the North Carolina House Judiciary Committee, where he advised the Committee on legal policy issues and prepared briefs on statutory and constitutional law issues. Rhoades also served as a Legal Research Assistant for Senator Tillis in the North Carolina House Speaker’s Office. A native of Clemmons, North Carolina, Rhoades holds a Juris Doctor from Campbell University and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from North Carolina State University.
02.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis issued the following statement today on the passing of Coach Dean Smith: “Today, the state of North Carolina sadly lost one of its most influential figures, Dean Smith, who leaves behind an incredible legacy. Coach Smith's leadership as the head coach of the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill basketball team was legendary, and his role as a teacher and mentor will continue to make a profound impact on many lives for years to come.” ###
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Tillis (R-NC) questioned Secretary of Defense nominee Ashton Carter and commended his distinguished public service career during his Senate Armed Services Committee confirmation hearing. Senator Tillis told Carter: “There is a lot of confidence in your ability and I think there are very few public servants qualified for the nomination. We already have several points of agreement, whether it’s acquisition reform, training, or modernization of business practices in the Pentagon. I look forward to working with you on that and making progress.” During the question and answer session, Senator Tillis raised concerns over President Obama’s recent handling of national security threats and encouraged Carter to maintain his status as an independent leader at the Pentagon. “There seems to be a disconnect between the reality of the threat we face right now and the way the President portrays it in many instances, most recently with the State of the Union,” Senator Tillis told Carter. “You said it very well when you said the number and severities of the threat we’re facing are probably as great as in any time in our lifetimes. I believe that you may use your position in a way where you can work with people in the White House and the National Security Council to get them to work with you, and us, to address the safety and security problems across the world.” ###
02.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Senate unanimously passed the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act, co-sponsored by Senator Tillis. The legislation directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct annual evaluations of the Department’s mental health care and suicide prevention programs to gauge their effectiveness and make any necessary improvements or changes. A community pilot program is also established to help veterans in their transition from active duty and improve their access to mental health care services. The bill is named after Clay Hunt, a Marine veteran who earned a Purple Heart in 2007 during Operation Iraqi Freedom. Upon returning home, Hunt was diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) but encountered significant hurdles reaching out to the Department of Veterans Affairs during his many attempts to receive proper care. Hunt took his own life in 2011 after failing to receive the care he needed. “The Clay Hunt SAV Act will help improve veterans’ access to critical mental health care resources and services upon their return home from active duty,” said Senator Tillis. “This is the first of many steps Washington needs to take to honor our commitment to the brave men and women who serve our nation. We must continue to improve the delivery, quality, and efficiency of care at Veterans Affairs facilities in North Carolina and across the country. I look forward to working on a bipartisan basis to improve care for America’s veterans.” ###
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) released the following statement after President Obama released his Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposing $2.1 trillion in tax hikes and $8.5 trillion in additional debt: “The President’s budget would move our nation in the wrong direction with bigger government, higher taxes and trillions in additional debt. North Carolina families have rightly lost patience with the federal government’s ever-tightening squeeze on their wallets. Taxpayers struggle every day to control spending and balance their budgets to make ends meet, and it’s time for Washington to do the same. I’m ready to work with my colleagues and the President to pass a budget that prioritizes hardworking taxpayers and rolls back federal overreach.” ###
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today issued the following statement after the passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: “I am encouraged that both parties came together to pass the Keystone XL Pipeline Act, a commonsense jobs and infrastructure bill that will spark economic growth and make America more energy secure. The Keystone XL pipeline would support thousands of good-paying jobs across a wide range of industries and will be done in an environmentally conscious manner, which is why the project was ultimately given a green light by the State Department. I urge President Obama to sign this legislation into law in light of the broad bipartisan effort in support of its passage, as well as the vast economic benefits it would have for our nation.” ###
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Department of Interior announced a draft of a five-year Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Offshore Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2017-2022, which would allow only one potential lease sale for just a limited portion of the Mid- and South-Atlantic OCS regions. The proposal comes less than one week after Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) proposed pro-jobs legislation directing the Department of Interior to develop a plan that allows offshore oil and natural gas exploration for the entire Mid- and South-Atlantic OCS regions. The Tillis-Burr proposal would help states benefit from the more than 142,000 potential jobs that could be created through offshore natural gas and oil exploration and production along the Atlantic Coast by 2035, according to a recent study conducted by Quest Offshore Resources. A wide range of industries would see significant job creation including extraction, manufacturing, and construction. The study found that North Carolina could benefit from up to 55,000 jobs and nearly $4 billion in newly generated state revenue from 2017 to 2035. “While I am glad that President Obama is now considering allowing offshore natural gas and oil exploration along the Atlantic Coast, his proposal is wholly inadequate and would not provide the same level of job creation and economic benefits as the legislation Sen. Burr and I recently proposed,” said Sen. Tillis. “The Administration’s proposal is non-binding and effectively prevents individual states from unlocking their full energy potential. Sen. Burr and I will continue to advance our commonsense proposal to open up the Atlantic Coast to offshore natural gas and oil exploration so North Carolina can see the thousands jobs and the billions in economic activity that could come to our great state.” ###
01.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC) partnered with Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) to file an amendment to the Keystone XL pipeline bill requiring the Administration to set up procedures for leasing, exploring, and developing offshore oil and natural gas resources in Mid-Atlantic and South-Atlantic states, which would support hundreds of thousands of jobs and move America closer to energy independence. The legislation instructs the Secretary of the Interior to finalize a five-year Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Offshore Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2017-2022 that includes annual offshore leasing opportunities in both the Mid-Atlantic and South-Atlantic OCS regions. The Obama administration previously excluded these two regions in its OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2012–2017. The Mid-Atlantic OCS region includes Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina and Virginia, and the South-Atlantic OCS region includes Florida, Georgia, and South Carolina. Allowing offshore oil and natural gas exploration and production in Mid-Atlantic and South-Atlantic states could help support more than 142,000 jobs by 2035 according to a recent study conducted by Quest Offshore Resources. A wide range of industries would see significant job creation including mining, manufacturing, and construction. The study found that in North Carolina, offshore energy exploration and development could support more than 55,000 jobs and generate nearly $4 billion in state government revenue from 2017 to 2035. Under the Tillis and Burr Amendment, states would receive a 37.5 percent share of all revenues collected for OCS leasing activities. Revenues include leasing bids, rents, and royalties. Additionally, 12.5 percent of the revenues collected would be directed to the Land & Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). The legislation prohibits any oil or gas lease within 30 miles of the nearest coastline. Additionally, already existing federal laws will continue to require that oil and natural gas exploration be conducted in a way that considers the impact on marine, coastal, and human environments. “I made a promise to North Carolinians to advance commonsense priorities that help hardworking Americans and create new opportunities for our nation,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation honors that promise by expanding offshore oil and natural gas exploration to Mid- and South-Atlantic states, which will support hundreds of thousands of jobs, reduce the cost of utilities for families, and move our nation closer to energy independence. Expanding offshore energy development will have a particularly beneficial impact for North Carolina by giving a significant boost to our state economy, supporting up to 55,000 jobs, and generating billions in revenues over the next several decades.” ###
01.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (SAV), co-sponsored by Sen. Thom Tillis (R-NC), unanimously passed the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee and now heads to the Senate floor. The legislation directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct annual evaluations of mental health care and suicide prevention programs to gauge their effectiveness and then make any necessary improvements or changes. A community pilot program is also established to help veterans transition from active duty and improve access to mental health care services. “I am honored to be a co-sponsor of the Clay Hunt SAV Act, which is a bipartisan effort to make mental health care for our veterans a priority,” said Senator Tillis. “There is much work left to be done to repay the debt of gratitude we owe the brave men and women who have served our country, and this bill is the first of many steps this Congress needs to take to provide America’s veterans with the care and resources they deserve.” ###
01.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress: “President Obama is right to acknowledge that America’s economy must improve and Washington needs to do more to help hardworking taxpayers, but unfortunately he doesn’t understand that Washington is the problem. Partisan gridlock has made things harder, not easier for the American people and Washington has not produced results. There aren’t enough good-paying jobs, and prices for groceries and healthcare keep going up while paychecks are going down or staying the same. “Millions of hardworking families are still struggling to make ends meet. North Carolina small businesses and job creators have been buried with inefficient regulations and red-tape. We have also seen our enemies, radical Islamic terrorists, gain in strength and numbers, posing an ever increasing threat to our safety and security. “The American people deserve a government that is efficient, effective, accountable and responsive to the challenges American families face. We must work to make our tax code fairer and simpler, to help small businesses expand and create jobs, to put America on a path to energy independence, and to reduce the costs of healthcare. At the same time, we must improve America’s safety and security at home and abroad. Clearly, these are areas where we can work together for the good of the nation. “It will require a genuine willingness to cooperate, to find common ground, and to produce results. I will work in the United States Senate to find common ground, to find common-sense solutions, and to end the partisan gridlock. Republican or Democrat, it doesn’t matter whose idea it is, as long as it works for the American people. “We should never settle for an economy that’s limping along and a nation that’s less safe and secure. Americans aspire to a standard of greatness, and so should Washington. I will work every single day to solve problems, to create opportunities, and to help hardworking taxpayers achieve their American Dream. I hope the President will end the politics as usual and cooperate with us to turn these bipartisan goals into solutions and results for the American people.” ###
01.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) today issued the following statement to commemorate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “I join fellow North Carolinians in honoring the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., whose inspirational and visionary leadership challenged our nation to set a higher standard of freedom and liberty for all Americans.” ###
01.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Thom Tillis and Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-3) are asking the Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, to conduct a review of the Marine Corps plan to end the Cherry Point search and rescue (SAR) squadron known as Pedro. The 2015 Marine Aviation Plan appears to push the Marines SAR responsibilities onto the Coast Guard, however, the plan does not properly coordinate the transition with the Coast Guard. As a result, it is not certain that the Marine Corps would be able to meet all of its own SAR needs. In addition, last year Pedro support also aided in 22 life-saving emergencies in the civilian community, providing medevac flights, finding lost children, and helping boaters and aviators. In the letter to Secretary Mabus, Senator Tillis and Congressman Jones expressed concern that the Pedro squadron’s life-saving military and civilian missions in the region might be compromised if the SAR duties are transferred from the Marine Corps to the Coast Guard. They have asked for more details regarding DOD’s plans to meet those needs, including cost projections, since this transition is being justified on the basis of fiscal cuts to the Marine Corps budget. “Congressman Jones and I have serious concerns that this plan could compromise mission readiness and support at Cherry Point,” said Senator Tillis. “Several critically important issues need to be addressed, including the additional burden placed on the Coast Guard, before Cherry Point’s search and rescue capabilities are diminished.” “There are a number of serious questions about this plan,” said Congressman Jones. “Taxpayers have a right to answers to these questions before any final decisions are made, and Senator Tillis and I will get those answers.” ###
01.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Richard Burr (R-NC) announced the selection of two North Carolina students for the 53rd United States Senate Youth Program (USSYP). The Senators jointly applauded the outstanding educational achievements of Victor Agbafe and Christine McDow, both of Wilmington, NC. “North Carolina is proud to have two young leaders like Victor and Christine representing our great state. Young men and women like these two are why North Carolina has such a bright future ahead. I wish them the best of luck in this program,” Senator Burr said. “I am enthused and proud of these two young leaders, whose early dedication to their education and local communities proves future generations will continue to lead our country down a path of greatness,” Senator Tillis said. Agbafe and McDow are deeply involved in public service, earning their enrollment into the extremely competitive USSYP program. The program, sponsored by the U.S. Senate and fully funded by The Hearst Foundations, accepts only 104 students each year and awards the student delegates with $5,000 in undergraduate scholarship funds. During their time in Washington, the USSYP student delegates attend meetings and briefings with Senators, House Representatives and Congressional staff, the President, a Justice of the Supreme Court, leaders of cabinet agencies, an Ambassador to the United States, and senior members of the national media. ###
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) announced he is co-sponsoring the Forty Hours Is Full Time Act, S.30, to require the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to define a “full-time employee” as someone who works 40 hours per week, not 30 hours per week as currently defined by the IRS under President Obama’s Affordable Care Act. This 30 hour definition has forced many employers to cut work schedules for many workers in North Carolina in order to keep up with the costs of the President’s health care law. As a result, many North Carolinians are now being forced to work more than one job at the same time to make ends meet. “The employer mandate has placed an unnecessary burden on North Carolina businesses, local school districts, public universities, and many other employers, to cut the hours and wages of hardworking Americans in order to cope with the economic costs of the President’s Affordable Care Act,” said Senator Tillis. “This legislation is a bipartisan effort to once again make it a priority to protect the jobs of American workers by simply defining ‘full-time work’ as 40 hours, not 30 hours, per week.” ###
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) voted for the reauthorization of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), which passed the Senate and now heads to the President’s desk. “The heinous act of terror in Paris yesterday serves as a tragic reminder that our enemies continue to pose a significant threat to America and its allies, and our nation must be prepared,” said Senator Tillis. “The Senate overwhelmingly voted to reauthorize TRIA to safeguard our economy in the event of a terrorist attack and provide American taxpayers and businesses with long-term certainty. I thank my colleagues from both parties for coming together to pass this critical legislation.” TRIA was created by Congress and signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2002 following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The law helps cover damages caused by acts of terror against our nation and its citizens. The TRIA Reauthorization Act of 2015 extends the law through December 31, 2020. Reforms in the legislation allow the law to naturally adapt to market-based competition, increasing protection of taxpayers and private insurers from large economic losses that are the direct result of terrorist attacks. ###
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Tina Smith (D-MN) reintroduced their bipartisan legislation to secure health care benefits for “Atomic Veterans” who were exposed to harmful radiation when they cleaned up nuclear testing sites during the late 1970s.U.S. Representative Grace Meng (D-NY) reintroduced the House companion bill. The Mark Takai Atomic Veterans Healthcare Parity Act would allow veterans who participated in the cleanup of Enewetak Atoll on the Marshall Islands to receive the same health care and benefits given to other servicemembers who were involved in active nuclear tests. From 1946 to 1958 the U.S. military conducted more than 40 nuclear tests in the Islands, but the thousands of service members who cleaned up the area were never made eligible to receive health benefits under the Radiation Compensation Exposure Act. “In the 1970s, thousands of courageous servicemembers were tasked with the unfathomable mission of cleaning the fallout and debris from nuclear tests in the Marshall Islands without protective gear, causing countless health issues among those involved,” said Senator Tillis. “This bipartisan legislation will recognize those veterans and ensure they are able to receive access to the medical treatment for which their service should have entitled them to long ago.” “One of our most solemn duties is to take care of the men and women who serve in our armed forces,” said Sen. Smith. “And a big part of that means ensuring they can get the health care they need both during and after their service. The Americans who cleaned up the radiation-exposed Marshall Islands—where more than 40 nuclear tests took place in the 20th century—have been fighting for proper care for a long time, and it’s past time we stand up for them. I’m standing up by continuing to work on this commonsense, bipartisan fix that’s long overdue.”“On behalf of the National Association of Atomic Veterans (NAAV), its members, and all Enewetak Atoll Radiological Cleanup Project personnel, I thank Congresswoman Grace Meng, Senator Tina Smith and Senator Thom Tillis and their respective staff for introducing this responsible, common sense legislation,” said National Association of Atomic Veterans National Commander Keith Kiefer. “I would also like to thank more than eleven veterans organizations and other veteran advocates that support this legislation. The Enewetak Atoll Cleanup Veterans have been denied recognition as Atomic Veterans, as well as being Occupation Exposure Veterans too long. The Mark Takai Atomic Veterans Healthcare Parity Act recognizes these veterans as Atomic Veterans, providing the healthcare coverage needed and promised. Despite the fact that the mission was titled ‘Enewetak Atoll Radiological Cleanup Project,’ and the mission was to remediate the islands so the native islanders could safely return to their homeland, and this mission failed, the VA (Veterans Administration) and DTRA (Defense Threat Reduction Agency) in concert deny these veterans ionization radiation exposure status. Despite contamination of the islands with Plutonium, Strontium, Cesium and other toxic materials from years of testing 43 atomic bombs, the veterans did not have proper PPG (Personal Protective Gear) or monitoring during removal and transportation of approximately 110,000 cubic yards contaminated soil, these bureaucracies continue to deny any exposure and proper care associated with that. About 4,000 veterans were part of this project. Of these, we have found about ten percent alive. Most of the survivors have cancer(s); at least one suffers with six unique cancers. These men are in their late 50s to 60s.” “Each veteran exposed to nuclear radiation deserves equal treatment and equal access to the veteran health benefits they’ve earned,” said Association of Mature American Citizens President Daniel Weber. “For too long, service members who cleaned up the Enewetak Atoll have been neglected by the VA and been forced to pay out of pocket for several radiation-related medical expenses. AMAC’s 1.7 million members are pleased to support Senator Tina Smith (D-MN), Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) and Representative Grace Meng (D-NY-06) as they seek to ensure every veteran gets the healthcare access they deserve.” The bipartisan Atomic Veterans Healthcare Parity Act was reintroduced by Sens. Tillis and Smith and is cosponsored by Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Angus King (I-ME), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Jeffrey A. Merkley (D-OR), Susan Collins (R-ME), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Christopher A. Coons (D-DE), Kamala Harris (D-CA), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Ed Markey (D-MA), and Jon Tester (D-MT). It’s named after the late Hawaii Congressman Mark Takai, a veteran of the U.S. Army and Hawaii Army National Guard who passed away in 2016 and was the original sponsor of the bill in the House of Representatives. The service members who participated in the Marshall Islands cleanup between 1977 and 1980 suffer from high rates of cancers due to their exposure to radiation and nuclear waste, but are currently unable to receive the same treatments and service-related disability presumptions that other “radiation-exposed veterans” receive. The Mark Takai Atomic Veterans Healthcare Parity Act would tackle this issue by extending key VA benefits to those who helped clean up the Marshall Islands, which remain partly uninhabitable due to high levels of radiation. You can read a summary of the bill here. ###
02.07.2019	Tillis Invites Administration Officials To Coastal Communities To Hear Directly From North Carolina Stakeholders WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) sent a letter to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Commerce, the Acting Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Acting Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, and the Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere at the Department of Commerce, requesting additional information on the recent decision to open the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) for review under a new oil and gas leasing program. Tillis noted the economic importance of the tourism and fishing industries for North Carolina, and requested that the administration provide more details about their plan to ensure there are adequate protections for North Carolina’s coastal communities. “While I understand that there are potential economic benefits coming from offshore energy production, I would like to hear more details about specific actions your agencies are taking to safeguard longstanding industries in our coastal communities,” wrote Senator Tillis. “I also request that you provide information about how your agencies will guarantee that the issuance of geological and geophysical surveying permits are limited and do not result in duplicative surveying activities.” Tillis also invited administration officials to join him for listening and educations sessions in North Carolina’s coastal communities to engage in productive dialogue. “Lastly, I would like to invite you to join me in visiting North Carolina for listening and education sessions across our coastal counties on the topic of offshore energy exploration,” wrote Senator Tillis. “North Carolina’s coastal communities have been closely monitoring the issue of offshore drilling and surveying. A visit will provide an opportunity for your agencies to directly engage with stakeholders in an open dialogue about the potential costs and benefits of your proposed actions.” Read Senator Tillis’ full letter to Trump Administration officials here. February 7, 2019 The Honorable David Bernhardt Acting Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior Dr. Walter Cruickshank Acting Director Bureau of Ocean Energy Management The Honorable Wilbur Ross Secretary U.S. Department of Commerce Dr. Timothy Gallaudet Assistant Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere Dear Acting Secretary Bernhardt, Secretary Ross, Dr. Cruickshank, and Dr. Gallaudet, I am writing to request a briefing about the recent decision to open the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) for review under a new oil and gas leasing program from 2019-2024. I also request an in person briefing on the issuance of permits for geological and geophysical surveying in the Mid-Atlantic OCS region. The OCS off the coast of North Carolina is one of significant economic and ecological importance. Our coast is the meeting point between the Gulf Stream and the Labrador Current, which creates a unique environment that has allowed our recreational and commercial fishing industries to diversify and become regional economic drivers. As stated in the 2019-2024 OCS Oil and Gas Leasing Draft Proposed Program (DPP), North Carolina accounts for over 50% of the “recreational fishing expenditures [that] resulted in a total value added in the Mid-Atlantic economy of more than $2 billion.” Furthermore, North Carolina’s commercial fishing industry was valued at over $96 million in 2017. Tourism is another strong economic driver in our coastal communities. The coastal tourism industry in North Carolina generates over $3.5 billion each year and, in 2017, tourism expenditures exceeded $1 billion in Dare County alone. This county is of particular sensitivity to OCS surveying activities, as the narrowest portion of the Atlantic continental shelf extends just 20 miles off Cape Hatteras in Dare County, North Carolina. While I understand that there are potential economic benefits coming from offshore energy production, I would like to hear more details about specific actions your agencies are taking to safeguard longstanding industries in our coastal communities. I also request that you provide information about how your agencies will guarantee that the issuance of geological and geophysical surveying permits are limited and do not result in duplicative surveying activities. Lastly, I would like to invite you to join me in visiting North Carolina for listening and education sessions across our coastal counties on the topic of offshore energy exploration. North Carolina’s coastal communities have been closely monitoring the issue of offshore drilling and surveying. A visit will provide an opportunity for your agencies to directly engage with stakeholders in an open dialogue about the potential costs and benefits of your proposed actions. Sincerely, Thom Tillis ###